ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118350	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. This is the time we have reserved for clubs to present their opinions, or suggestions. Who's calling? A colleague, Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Branko Vuksic. Comrade Grubisic, explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118351	Thank you very much. Here's the duty officer at the debate club. One more day they have a chance to report, and given the situation, so at our external borders, it's about the blockade of the border, but also some internal blockades mainly in production, agricultural production, so a five-minute review. That's right, to this condition. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Mix.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118352	A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118353	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on the same subject, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118354	Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118355	Also on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118356	Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm setting a break until 9.10. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:10 A.M.]] A colleague, Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here we are looking at the situation at the Croatian-Serbian border every day, where our prime minister is trying to punish Serbia for directing refugees towards Croatia, which he said only let them come and then punish Serbia for directing them towards Croatia. By stopping their decisions and civil traffic, civil life and treating both Serbia and Hungary and some other countries as Mad Max, that is exactly how our prime minister behaves. What happens to him in this final part of his government's mandate? But it's not just about the blockade, so imports, exports from Serbia to Croatia, but also about his favorite minister, Mr. Jakovina, who we've talked about a hundred times here, and I've received a tip, an application to talk about it today, so it's blocking our agricultural producers in Požega-Slavon County mainly from a cooperative called "Home Treasure" and it's registered in Kuzmica, which is also 175 cooperatives producing 500 tons of beans at 450 ha. But imports that are shared and given to some importers for imported peas Trešnjevac from Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan and some other exotic states are actually preventing the development and domestic production that has gone well. That pea, our pea, Croatian beans is not to say a hundred times as high and better than that import beans. But here's the cooperative that got the rejection of how they like to say it in Slavonia for 421 and 411 for the purchase of bean pickers, which would make it easier for the production of beans, but also for the line for the processing of beans, because the raw beans themselves as raw beans are not a final product but can be improved far more if they are processed, cooked and I don't know what they can do with peas and a number of other things, products produced, so other than that primary product, and that's the pea cherry. Domestic producers in the association, i.e. in the Cooperative "Home Treasure" registered in Kuzmica produce 20% of now, for the time being, 20% of needs, Croatian needs for pea cherries. The other 80% is imported. And it's a shame the ministry doesn't understand. It's clear to me if he doesn't really understand fishermen at sea, etc. But it comes from, the minister comes from Slavonia and that either on purpose or out of ignorance doesn't matter, ignorance doesn't justify, so it chokes the domestic production of vegetables, and this time I mainly have the exact information about the beans producers and the "Home treasure" that this is about and that produces 500 tons of beans. The demand for this pea is so great in Croatia that they do not arrive to perform. So they sell everything they produce to domestic trade chains and buyers. Although they have calls from Slovenia, calls from the EU to make this pea, it also comes to their area because it is high, high-quality peas. Unfortunately, the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture makes it impossible for them, and the drop that spilled the glass is just a disapproval of the procurement of beans and the disapproval of the purchase of a line for the processing of peas in measures 421 and 411 where the cooperative was, therefore, competing but unfortunately by the paying agency and the Ministry of Agriculture has been rejected. That's alarming, that's what might be more important, and what's not known in the Croatian political public, and what Mad Mex is doing, there's a Belgrade-based list of "Kurir" that has published on the cover another word that is much harder than Med Mexa but I wouldn't want it. Maybe the press knows her, so it's not nice for me to say words like that for anyone, let alone our prime minister. Here is the situation I ask that this current minister, who is still the minister for two days and this until the election, and who will be the next minister, look at the possibilities of producing vegetables, processing vegetables, ice-colding plants in Slavonia to finally and Slavonia, because this is an unsustainable situation. This isn't a pre-election speech for Slavonia, but it's a state that's been going on for 20 years. Since the modern Croatian state time is up, and time is running out for this government as well. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: But time is up. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118359	We're all running out of time. A colleague, Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the club Independent Lefties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118360	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, Croatian President Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic said, in a statement, "things are getting out of hand". What you are doing with refugees is absolutely certain to get out of control, which is proof that we were not well prepared, that it was a deception, a clean deception to prepare for refugees and that Croatia will easily solve it. Here we should explain once again, not to explain that Croatia had a million refugees and had to deal with a million refugees and was able to cope. One note that probably a lot of people don't know. After the attack on Iraq, Syria received 4 million refugees and took care of them for years. And it's not like the state failed because of it. It's because of some other things. What is happening at the Croatian border, what is happening in international relations between Serbia-Croatia, Croatia-Hungarian and other countries, is certainly enough to talk about the poverty of politics. Not Croatian politics, but the misery of politics. There are few who care about refugees, about solutions. It seems to me that in Croatia many care about catching political points, getting political points regardless of what is on the left, on the right, are the middle of any. There's not a lot of people thinking about victims, and who's the victim? There are few who dare, including Prime Minister Milanovic, to point out who is responsible, who triggered this avalanche. It's certainly the Western forces they've been doing, creating chaos in the Middle East and North Africa not for years but decades. It is not dared, but dares to argue with Serbia, Orban, because that is where political points are being scored. There is no meaningful proposal to make an international conference and to have a serious conversation with the United States, which is what small countries used to do, remember, and that's what we're ashamed of today. Not us, I'm not ashamed, many others are ashamed. And there was so much we could learn. However, we learned nothing. We seem to be preparing for work, but people need to understand that we are only preparing for work at the time of the election campaign. After that, it will not be valid for Serbian neighbours. We should know that, too. It doesn't care about Croatian interests, it cares about its ratings. I'm not talking about any names or names. What you guys have been doing to the SDPs that you've been destroying for three-and-a-half years, that's all I care about... My performance has always been honorable, and it will be honorable. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't belong to your block or this block. Well, that's not it, buddy. You who come to Parliament to raise your voice are your points, you fight for points and don't win, don't be rude. If Serbia has closed the market for Croatian products, it means something to Croatian production, it means something to Croatian interests. If we are, say some of the people who were at the border, we feel humiliated, we feel miserable as if at the door of our house in '91. A year. We're going to argue with all of Europe because someone wants to win the election. That's not good. There's no calming sentences, there's no love, there's no empathy there you can see, there's now a strictness exercise, now you want to show statehood, a state guard but not when it's necessary. Croatia had a very safe, Croatian foreign policy which almost does not have what I once said and I repeat today, it is a poodle of Brussels, American and German politics. Croatian foreign policy is not Croatian, so the media will not mistranslate as they say I am... So if those at the border feel humiliated and we feel miserable, we too feel humiliated and miserable with this kind of policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118361	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118362	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to first congratulate Kurban-Bayram on the believers of Islamic religion. I would also like to congratulate myself on the efforts of volunteers, police, the Red Cross, locals in eastern Croatia, all those who deal with this crisis, local self-government, commanders of headquarters, ministers. However, I took the floor to talk about this roadblock at the Croatian-Serbian border. Croatia has banned if I am not mistaken in 26.08 and imports of milk from BiH. We're too light on the trigger. Did that milk import block stop, I don't know, but BiH knows it boycotts Croatian goods. And today we're going one step further. Export of Croatian goods to Serbia is 3.8 billion kuna. Imports are 2.7 billion kuna from Serbia. With Croatia investing about 5 billion kuna in Serbian companies, these companies largely export nearly 1 billion goods to Croatia. So the damage is double. We are likely to start losing the market in Serbia and then damage our position in Macedonia as well. I don't think this blockade is good, and I think that this blockade should be given up, at the moment, in a deal between Zagreb and Belgrade. I don't think it should have come to her. It should be asked to address the clear problem of migrants down in Greece, that Greece does not receive these people in such a way or that it sends them up towards Macedonia, Serbia still, but the problem should also be solved if it does not solve down there, help solve the problem, then help Serbia. So Croatia and that problem can solve the same problem at its borders. While Hungary is probably in agreement with Merkel to release and miss migrants and refugees ok. When it does not do so at the same time, the borders must stop these people from entering Croatia. I've been saying that for months. The government says for the first time today we will return immigrants to Serbia if it comes to that and that's plan C. I've been saying that for two, three months now. First, I was offended, but it's slowly coming at mine. There's so many migrants coming in, they've got to get out. Those who are here should be helped, dressed, fed, given drinks, provided medical assistance, etc. And I also think that 90% of Croatian citizens believe that the blockade is not the solution. It is clear that they do not play ball with people, with migrants, with refugees, but it is clear that as a day for Serbs to see it, they target only on our territory to make mistakes. We need this summit of European countries in the southeast, Belgrade, Skopje, Sarajevo, Zagreb. It would be ideal for those from Budapest, Ljubljana, Athens to join. It is also necessary that the media are not classified in the way they do. The media space in Croatia is more controlled than ever, and it is exclusively subordinated to the authorities. Everything done by the government will be blessed and everything else will simply be attacked and condemned. Is it true that Merkel said she would receive 50 thousand migrants and a point in that circle? I guess that's what we're all afraid of in Hungary and here in Croatia, and probably Serbia. As the buses pass, there's no problem, but what if the ramp is raised? Then we know that Serbia will not return them and these people remain here, and our capacities are also insufficient. But what worries me most is that Germany has also announced that it will return 100,000 asylum seekers from the ex-Yugoslavia area and 200 thousand who do not have a residence permit. And what I said yesterday and again people call me licenses for small fishing. This year, only 11 of these Istrian fishermen were granted that license. Eight thousand requests have been filed. And last year, 13 thousand people in Istria had that advantage, which is what I assure you of some existence as well as the beans Mr Grubisic speaks of.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u118363	Fish and beans salad. We're done with the club exposure they asked for a break. And we'll continue at 9.30 with a debate on the agenda. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:30 A.M.]] At the beginning of the agreement with the clubs, we would complement the agenda: Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the research and innovation contract for the Western Balkans, with the Final Bill proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 922. Any objections to the addition of the agenda? There isn't. This complements the agenda. We move on to: - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child - Proposer of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. On behalf of the board, Vice-President of the Committee of colleagues Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić will explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120580	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the initiative of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a parent working body proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Namely, the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child Article 6 provides that the Prize is awarded by the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which is appointed at a time of two years. This committee consists of five members, these are persons who should be well-known public workers dealing with child rights issues. The prize is awarded each year to the 20th November memory of the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the session of the UN General Assembly. It can be as a reward for life’s work and as an annual reward by awarding one prize for life’s work and up to three annual prizes. It shall be granted in the form of special recognition and in money. The term of office of the previous members of the Committee expires on 8 November 2015 and we propose to the Croatian Parliament a composition of the Committee for the Prize for the promotion of the rights of the child for the next two years. We propose the following candidates, and these are: Ms. Dunja Špoljar, MP, teacher, author of several professional teaching articles, master of the profession in the field of education science. Its interest is on the subject of innovative settlement in the education process, then the application of alternative pedagogues, the encouragement of gifted students, or the inclusion of students with developmental difficulties, and has been twice the chairman of this committee. Then it is a doctor of science Mr. Ivan Simovic, senior assistant at the Department of Family Law, who doctored precisely on the subject of children's rights. There is Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, a professor of Croatian language and comparative literature who is a participant in a series of conferences, seminars, round tables on the topic of education and education, which is also the holder of the award of Red Danica Croatia with the character Ante Starcevic to contribute to education and education. The next candidate is Professor Dr. Sc. Mario Vinković, professor at the Faculty of Law in Osijek, author of the book "Children's work in international European and parallel labour law", and Mrs Vlasta Medar, one of the former SOS moms from the Children's Village Lekenik, the lady who was the first of the first three SOS mothers in Croatia in '93 when the first SOS children's village was founded in Croatia and during the work of Mrs Medar raised 19 children in the SOS village, and received awards and recognitions for her work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is a proposed composition of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child for the next period and I am asking you nicely to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120581	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120582	Proposal for a decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the votes, 113 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and nothing against votes, have been decided to set up a Committee for the Prize for the promotion of the child's rights in the text as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120583	Since we have another point from the Ministry of Culture, we will now postpone the debate under point 32, and we will return to it later, and we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 919. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120584	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and this can all be sublimed under the notion of voluntary merger of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, Articles 4 and 5 define, in fact, Article 4, the possibility that units of local self-government which border each other can be voluntarily combined. The decision to voluntary merger of local self-government units referred to in paragraph 1 shall be taken by their representative bodies by a majority of the votes of all members following the citizens' opinions obtained in the field of units to which the merger relates. The decision must also include the names of units of local self-government that are merged, the name, the type and place of the new unit of local self-government created by the merger and the consent to transfer of assets, and the rights and obligations of the unit to be merged into the unit resulting from the merger. Other amendments to the laws set out here are technical and that is the obligation made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the National Reform Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120585	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the ORAH club, colleague Mladen Novak. He's not there. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120586	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Normally Istrian Democrats have an important second approach. Everyone to me is completely understandablely difficult to achieve as much autonomy as possible. In some autonomy, a man must not doubt at all whether it is a sport, whether it is a university, media, individuals. Likewise, we believe that Croatia was the fastest developed by the 1974 Constitution when the Republic of Croatia was the most decentralised and most naturally formed. You all know that we've had 105 municipalities in this country for the first, second years. When we compare today the budgets of the state of about 125 billion kunas and the budgets of local self-government, which are totaling 22 billion kunas, we see certain discrepancies and we can say that the state is both centralized and poorly formed. We in the Republic of Croatia have 567 units of local self-government. It's just unnatural. Every parish has become a municipality, it's absurd. Every diocese to put it that way has become a county, it's absurd. One Denmark, which numbers 5.6 million people, has 98 municipalities and 5 regions. Only the County of Istria established in a way that we have 41 units of local self-government plus county. So a total of 42 units. I don't know if you know one thing. Only Istra, which has 208,000 residents, has more officials than Denmark with 5.6 million inhabitants. And that's what we're saying is that the number of local units is down by 2/3. If the state of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia is part of the SFRY then, it does not matter, it has 105 municipalities today can have, say, 200. But I'm not saying any more. The number of employees in 2 mandates in our municipalities and local self-government but generally in the upgrade should also be halved. They're not teachers, they're not teachers, they're not cops, they're not doctors. But those who work at the state administration certainly do. Maybe we should actually go from the Parliament, because the Parliament was about a dozen or fifteen years ago, not 153 MPs as many as it is today. We stand for means as radically as possible decentralisation of powers and money. The state normally needs to manage the MUP, the Ministry of Defence, those state ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the finance. It must normally enable service, but should be autonomous and independent, not under the political belt of DORH, PNUSKOK and the like. I know that only the County of Istria, meaning that local self-government has 1.6 billion kuna plus 1.5 billion kunas of municipal companies and plus we're about a billion kunas from the state budget somewhere. Of the 40, I'm sorry of the 58000 employees in Istria, 15000 people work in the upgrade. It's like that elsewhere or worse. The County of Istria is set up if I do not cheat on 14 departments where political favor is purchased for those who support the government there. The state of Croatia has 20 ministries. The principle is the same only costs are incomparably higher. I remind you that one Germany has 14 ministries, that one UK has 16 ministries, that our neighbouring Italy has 16 ministries. These are countries between 60 and 80 and so many millions of people. The state of Croatia, I repeat, has 20 ministries. Only at a festival in Istria spend 70 million kunas a year or in 4 years could one general hospital put itself through to the media about 15 million kunas and we all know that the government controls the media, control of the judiciary, control of the budget, employees through large coalitions, setting up jobs etc., etc. The point is, one reorganization, decentralisation among other things must be in what I'm talking about rationalization. I personally believe that if one municipality is not applied but there is no time for such a logical correct approach then one should take a step further and say that the municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants must not have I do not know at those executive functions of professionals. It's interesting that in this country everyone strikes, strikes doctors, strikes teachers. I'm trying to get these people out of here. Why? Because the average plan in the Republic of Croatia is 5 thousand 800 kuna. The average salary in high school is 5300 kuna and it seems to me in elementary schools somewhere around 5,000 kuna. But whoever never strike, you never heard of it, and neither did I, employees of local self-government. It was recently ordered for, now I do not know exactly how much money a study of the effects of decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia on the economic and fiscal position of the County of Istria. And what was seen in this simple study. According to the population in Istria, 35 thousand 965 kuna are inbound and we spend on the population 32 thousand 140 kuna. So the state budget more than returns or stays goes to 3826 kuna. In one Zagreb, 50 thousand 589 kuna are made available per capita. So 15 thousand kunas more than in Istria spends 33 thousand 362 kuna or cca per capita. 1,000 kunas more. In 2013, 7 billion 629 million kunas were made available in Istria County and we spent or returned the remaining 6 billion 913 million kunas. So in 2013, from Istria to the state budget went beyond what was left or returned 716 million kuna. So the rest is either 92% of the cca's back. Which just says that a system like this can't exist. For pensions of 2 billion kunas, for health care billions and 100, 524 million kunas have returned for education, for social services 193 etc., not to mention investments that are best for all. In 2008, 68 thousand workers, 68 thousand and 13 and 2013 worked in Istria. 59 thousand 264 workers. So in that period of five years and the trend continues and we still lost almost 9,000 jobs. Where? Only in the base room, as I would say, the base branches. It doesn't matter if it's trade, whether it's industry, whether it's agriculture or trade. We lost means almost 9,000 jobs, twice as much as they are employed by a strong, strong tourism sector. And what she's shown is a study, and that's why I'm reporting for the word that there's a growing number of employees in the local and state administration, in the plumbing, in the education, in the waste, in one word only in the upgrade. On the other hand, Istra is in a much better financial position than many. Here's this migrant, refugee wave didn't touch us thanks to God unlike the Eastern Slavonia that suffers incredible and will suffer years of damage because we ourselves are aware that this migration of the people won't last just seven or 15 days, two or three months, but maybe another 7, 15 or more years. We are 9th in Croatia. Gross pays in Zagreb 9 thousand 571 kuna and in Istria 7 thousand 683. In the 9th place, investments in Istria amount to 2.2 billion kuna, 1.4 billion kuna building, 620 million kuna equipment, while 751 million kuna or 100 million euros in tourism. In Zagreb, investments amount to €25.9 billion in 2013, in the Primorje-Gorski County, €3.2 billion. So investment in Zagreb, which is 4 times larger than Istria, is 11 times larger. Among other things, probably because of the monopolous position some companies here have from HEP onward but the basic problem of why these investments are not in Istria is primarily bribed because below 200, 300, 500, 600 thousand euros no one can obtain or start any business. It is no wonder that in the term of office of these two tourism ministers, Ostojić and Lorencin were not built any new hotels in Istria. The fall in investment in Istria since the pre-crisis year 2008 is 47.8%. The lowest drop in investment was 14.1%) in Zadar. It's all something to talk about because, among other things, it's largely for these figures that the state administration, the structure of the state, and the local self-government itself. I'm going to say, and I'm saying no, I didn't just say once, just go to crime three to five percent of GDP a year. That's why my spaces are unfortunately stagnant. 10 to 12 years ago, we had 18% more GDP than the Primorje-Gorski County, and today we have 2% less GDP than the Primorje-Gorski County. At that time we had 18% less GDP than the City of Zagreb, and today we have about 35% less GDP than the City of Zagreb. We are standing in place, others are approaching us, or, unfortunately, in the case of Zagreb, they are jumping apart. That's what we need to talk about. Crime, nepotism, guessing, media censorship, an unprecedented media racket, media horror, has simply stalled one of the most prosperous areas of the Republic of Croatia. This could simply change between other new territorial structures where he would dare say that he should start over again as it started out there in '92. One territorial structure lasted for 23 years and it is time to simply say enough and to see how to do this one not quantitative but qualitative step. I repeat, one Denmark has 5.6 million inhabitants, it has 98 municipalities and five regions. Only Istria has 42 units of local and regional self-government. And I repeat, we have more officials on 208,000 residents when we look at deputy chiefs, mayors, deputies, council presidents, when we look at mayors, deputies, heads of state, well today there are no more headsmen but heads of state, but there is one Denmark. I'm gonna say it one more time, it's time to just talk about it openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120587	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120588	Dear colleague, the fact is that Croatia needs a drastic reform of the territorial structure and this involves drastic cutting of the county and informing the region, and Croatia needs no more regions than 5 regions or 4 regions and the City of Zagreb as a specific region or specific status, which means that Istria can not be a specific region but that there must be a far smaller number. And I think it is very logical to go towards Slavonia being a special region, to have central Croatia as a special region, that the City of Zagreb has a special separate status as a region, that we have the western part of Croatia as a special region but there cannot be Istria itself but there is also the Primorje-Gorski County and Lika and the Karlovak County as a special and of course special region, the region of Dalmatia because it is something that requires common sense. In this regard, I would like to mention that Denmark by population is quite a similar country to Croatia, and that they also had a far greater number of local self-government units and what was thought to be regions, and today Denmark has just made the best step in that direction. So solutions exist, but the question is whether there is a good will from political actors. I think we should never leave our own personal case but should always look at the interest of the entire society and the whole state, but whether there is a political will for it, the question is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120589	Time. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120590	The common sense mentioned by the distinguished colleague speaks or directs, when we talk about the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, on the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia. And as I see it, on this coat of arms with the oldest coat of arms in the territory of the Republic of Croatia there is also the coat of arms of Slavonia, Dalmatia, Dubrovnik and Istria. And until the moment the shrimp is in the crown of the Croatian coat of arms, I don't think anyone will question the position of the County of Istrian or Istrian or I don't know what to call it, autonomy or the like, within the Republic of Croatia. The regions are recognised among other things, so we can talk about 5 Croatian regions, we can talk about 8 Croatian regions, but we can never talk about the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia without Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120591	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120592	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you have obtained thanks to this proposal to the law of your subject. But in doing so, you were exclusive, as my colleague Holly said, you mainly compared Istria and Zagreb. Don't look so tight. And when you talk about the fiscal capacity of the Istrian County, then a little and the Primorsko-goranska, and then Zagreb, or the city of Zagreb, do not forget and interfere with the mind of what happens to the rest of Croatia, i.e. with 128 municipalities in Slavonia, Srijem, Baranja and Podravina and those 5 counties that have the lowest fiscal except Osijek-Baranja, so the lowest fiscal capacity of what I will not mention your figures about. The average GDP of Slavonian counties is 35% compared to the EU and the city of Zagreb is 125%. So almost four times bigger. Istria is somewhere, Istria is somewhere at 100%. So, the fiscal capacity of the county that best speaks about the share of money per capita speaks of the average salary in Slavonia, so compared to the entire Republic of Croatia 1000 kunas smaller, 5600 in Croatia, 4600 in Slavonia. Even pensions are less average in Slavonia than in Croatia, which is interesting, and of course it is clear given the low-accumulated branches that are therefore prevailing over the Slavonian economy. Unemployment rate. If you have an unemployment rate higher than 10% in Istria. Well, it's 30% in Slavonia, and in Caglin municipality, 92% is the unemployment rate. I don't think there's one in the African country either. municipalities that have a higher unemployment rate. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] That's terrible! So don't complain too much. I know you're rooting for your Istria and that's good, all right? But the rest of Croatia is also important. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120593	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120594	Maybe I'll get the wrong idea if I say that Istria simply can't compare to Slavonia at this point. It can be compared to the Primorje-Gorski County, with Međimurska, Varazdinski, can be compared normally to the city of Zagreb. What was passed by Slavonia and did not pass any end to the Republic of Croatia has passed the drama of war, has passed the drama of its exiles in that period of '91. Years to '95. It doesn't need to be reminded of those columns of those ships or I don't know the bus when people came out of their homes as those hordes simply treated them. Slavonia is going through an incredible drama of eviction. 32000 people have moved out of Slavonia the way of Germany. No one in this country is talking about it. Maybe it's because we're obsessed with refugees, immigrants. Slavonia is also going through this migrant drama today, and that is something that unfortunately we just can't compare, because all this is not what one Istria has been going through. But when you mention pay, I'll tell you. By increasing wages we are in 9 places in Croatia. Gross salary in Zagreb 9 571 kuna, in Istria 7683 kuna. By gross social product, we are 77% of the European average. The city of Zagreb is at 106% of the European average, Budapest 148, Prague 171%) of the European average, Munich even 313% of the European average. I just think it's wrong for me that Slavonia is in that position, but we can't compare in the same way. but we can compare ourselves with those living in the western part of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120595	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120596	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Cain, you've given quite a lot as usual from the beginning to the end, so it would take me more than two minutes to refer to all these allegations of yours. But certainly what you said at the beginning, that every parish became a municipality or every diocese of county does not stand. Here I am, thank God in my community, I have two parishes and thank God for that. There are two dioceses in our county, and thank God for that. But you were saying what made me more burned that 2/3 of the municipalities should be abolished. I don't know what kind of analysis you've been doing and where, I think that would be devastating. Surely, numerous units of local self-government have shown the meaning of their existence on their ground and have done a lot to improve the quality of life, and it should certainly be congratulated on all people, not to go to some major centres, centres, and that for a carnister of gasoline, when the park should be cut down. That's it. But, well, it's your right to talk about Istria and some of your deviations, so let's let it deal with who needs it. But I, from the position of my county and our units of local self-government, say that they are excellent, that they work well, that they have improved the quality of life certainly a lot. And I think that these units of local self-government should be strengthened in a way that helps them improve this quality of life, not in a way that is taken from them. Here I was talking about the income tax changes, not the way in which the ZUCs are asked to cut their funds, their halfs, or a third down. So how to traffic, not in the way that happened in my county based on rent and in that part and therefore certainly help and empower those units of local self-government that showed their importance and their importance and improved the quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120597	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120598	So what I'm saying is that there's no free lunch, I don't know who said it and that the same local self-government just costs. When did the Republic of Croatia develop fastest? I've been saying the same thing for 20 years. It was fastest developed under the 1974 Constitution. At the time, Croatia was most decentralised, the most money remained for local self-government, and then the Republic of Croatia was best territorial or most rationally formed. We have cases that in one Italy we also have these small municipalities on three, four, five thousand inhabitants. In France, before someone threw me every village is like a municipality. But it's very different. Every village doesn't have its own professional chief, it doesn't have its own professional under quotes "boss" etc. Why couldn't life in the Republic of Croatia be organised into 105 of those under quotes now I'll say "history municipalities" if that was possible by the year '92.? Normally, the reality of a Umag or Novigrad should be respected, or I don't know a Vodnjan. Because life just changes. And what we've had up to 25 years ago doesn't have to match everything he's got today. But I repeat, the system costs. We have, how long have we had? We had years to mean '92. 7 of the presidents of the Assembly of Paid Professionals and 7 of the Presidents of the Executive Councils. Today we have 42 paid, which means the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, we have another 100 paid deputies, the elected presidents, etc. The system must be aware of the cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120599	Time, thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120600	Thank you very much. You've said so much to your colleague Cain that then a man needs to tell what he agrees with and what he disagrees with. There are municipalities that may need to consider joining each other, rationalizing but not even close to the number you said. But in the rest of the part with a lot of things I agree with what you've been saying about Istria, too. Fortunately, however, Istria is one of the most developed compared to all other parts of Croatia. So what's it like for others when you're so loud about the situation in Istria? And it's justifiable to say it and criticize it. Croatia lacks standardisation and effective management of the state budget. And that is why Croatia is in this situation. There's money for what you don't need, and there's no money for what you need. It has for portals that do not exist, it has for unnecessary official travel, it has for unnecessary conferences, it has for intellectual services unnecessary, it has for luxury offices and expensive leases. There are agencies that have more than 100 square metres of business space per employee. There are still people like that. It's for expensive cars, it's for imaginary agencies, it's for various associations. But there's no higher salary to teachers and teachers, no increase in the giving of newborns, no salary to employees of Immunological, Kamensky, DIOKI, no payment of debt for what's most important. Finally, there is no money in Croatia for what Croatia is developing, and there is money for what Croatia is killing. And then it's no wonder we're in a situation like this. Croatia today only reaps what it sows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120601	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120602	I don't expect everyone to agree with me like I certainly won't agree with you either. But as far as this replica is concerned, I could almost sign it or I could repeat it. From word to word, I could repeat or sign what you said. Istrian GDP is 75% of European GDP while the City of Zagreb seems to me to have said 108 or I don't know 107%. And he's probably in second, or now third place in the Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly what you say when you mention the state budget weighs 128 if I'm not mistaken for billions of kunas. All revenues in local self-government amount to about 22 billion kuna. It is true that this country is also irrationally formed. I'm also asking myself how is it that one Germany with over 80 million inhabitants can function with 14 ministries? 14 departments are owned by the Istrian County. One UK has 16 ministries, one Italy with 56 million inhabitants also. The agencies that we're not talking about. But what I am and want first of all to refer to as a replica to your statement, these are the salaries of people who work in primary and secondary schools. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is 5800 kuna. If I'm not mistaken, the average salary in high schools is about 5300, 5400 kuna, in primary schools of about 5000 kuna. When teachers ask for 200 million kunas, those plus 4%, they just want to get close to what was taken from them over the last four years and they've been taken from them by almost 13%. I think the government needs to sit down with the unions, make a deal. Tomorrow we vote on budget rebalancing and I urge them to meet with the amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120603	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120604	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If we were to form a local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, given its size, or the number of units of local self-government, we could only look on the side or on the outside, we could come to an extremely wrong conclusion, which is that Croatia is a decentralised country. On the contrary, however, a large number of local self-government units are the reason why Croatia is a centralised country. Namely, in order for any local community to come up with one of its own to say so in a Colloquial way, it must have the status of the municipality and that is why in Croatia we have such a large number of municipalities and cities, 576 municipalities and cities currently since 93th of the first time a legislative framework for the regional structure in Croatia has been established, so nearly 600 municipalities and cities have erupted. Small, or indeed small units of local self-government, those from 1000 to 1500 inhabitants have been crumbling, although, of course, through the will of citizens as mushrooms after the rain. However, this does not mean that these units of local self-government, these small units of local self-government, so up to 1500 inhabitants, were unsuccessful. On the contrary, they literally invested in the municipal infrastructure of tens of millions of kuna and, therefore, exclusively through the synergy of the work of the commissioners, councils, chieftains and their citizens, which from the national funds, which from European pre-accession funds and at least their own incomes therefore built a municipal infrastructure in their territory and, in a positive sense, changed the visor of many places in the rural area and the suburban area in the Republic of Croatia. However, local self-government units have invested disproportionately more in municipal than in business and social infrastructure, so today you have many more kilometres of footsteps and unclassified roads than you have, for example, numbers of kindergartens, or schools. We also have a lot more miles of paved roads and sewers than we have arranged, equipped and operated in business zones. Therefore, municipalities and cities have invested in the part that ultimately brings them costs in the long term when they are reflected, and they have not invested so much in the part that brings new jobs, i.e. profits. The fact is that today's system, today's local self-government system in the Republic of Croatia has simply expired. Small, fragmented units of local self-government do not have enough financial, neither spatial, nor personnel capacity to launch their optimal development. Most of the towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are not objectively capable of more serious absorption of EU structural funds, and only this fact should, therefore, be sufficient for politics, together with professional and all public, to go into one structural reform of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Because this current structure, this fragmentation, this fiscal centralisation, this huge difference in fiscal and human resources of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia, is actually a brake or weight of the development of the economy of the total state. This bill, which is before us, will not adopt anything particularly revolutionary in the legislative framework governing relations in local self-government, this legislative proposal certainly is not any structural reform but it offers a new tool that will allow the integration of local self-government units whose citizens want it and thus help one of the goals of future structural reform, which is to establish an optimal territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia and further stipulates that the establishment of a unit of local self-government, i.e. the area of the municipality, the city, their name, headquarters and headquarters of their bodies is governed by a special law. Furthermore, prior to the change in the area of the local self-government and the establishment of new municipalities, a preliminary opinion of the population, decisions or an indication of the municipal council and the County Assembly is needed, and all of this is necessary to obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These provisions, therefore, which remain in the law so far, have made it possible exclusively to create new municipalities in such a way that existing municipalities have split. So this possibility, therefore, gives this new tool of voluntary association the opportunity to set up municipalities in a way that, above all, connects neighbouring one or more municipalities. The decision itself must determine which units are combined, which and what units of local self-government are formed by a merger, which is their name and where its seat is located. Therefore, the decision is, of course, taken by representative bodies, i.e. the municipal chiefs of the municipalities that are joined together. In addition, since this law consequently leads to the creation of a new unit of local self-government, i.e. a new municipality or city, this law also regulates the election of property and other legal acts to the newly established unit of local self-government. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120605	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120606	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate you highlighted a particular problem regarding structural reform, or activity and the sequence of processes that should take place in certain... cities and municipalities. In one piece, I agree with you, in part because, firstly, it should be invested in economic infrastructure, meaning opening up the possibility of opening new jobs, supporting economies to create a material base of work, increasing the fiscal capacity of cities and municipalities from which it could then be financed in some way, primarily by municipal infrastructure, and then social upgrades and social infrastructure. But in practice, it's quite different. Why? Because you on your foundations in cities and municipalities can hardly explain to people that they will wait for a few more years, that they will not have road, electricity, water, sewerage that they do not have because you will primarily buy up a long number of years of land for... infrastructure, you are probably not lucky to have someone give you a hundred acres, give you money for economic infrastructure, but you really have to say get your city out of the mud and make a communal infrastructure so that in that part, because if you don't have a road, no one will even come to you. And then after that or parallel work on economic infrastructure. And then social infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, social homes, fountains come to an end. It should most often be the correct role of the state to give those aids and funds that are being opened to us that the state will not give someone to build a football stadium, while there will be people in some area who are without water, electricity or other municipal infrastructures. So there's a lot of problems, there's a lot of opportunities, and trust me the most depends on the people and the leader in that part of it we've said that they've done a lot of things that's been lagging behind, not investing in infrastructure that's been able to do it in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120607	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120608	Thank you. The biggest reason for more investment in municipal infrastructure is that our municipal infrastructure was so lagging behind that it had to be invested in. However, it is clear to me that the population, the citizens, have a greater perception of the foot-and-mouth, the canalisation, the pillar for public lighting than is, for example, a project documentation for the business zone that lasts five years. However, municipalities and cities must start to think structurally or in the long term, not based on ad hoc projects from elections to elections. A large number of mayors and mayors enter the scheme and seek to look at as much as possible before the elections or in another term as possible from what is visible. But let's just say, invisible things, projects, development projects, everything that will bring long-term profits to every municipality and city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120609	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120610	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Mateljan, speaking of this topic at first, I would agree with what you were talking about about local self-government units because you know that they are the development generator in the areas we come from, but you said that they invested a lot more in municipal infrastructure than in business, but the precondition for business infrastructure is your municipal infrastructure, and you know it very well. What you did not say about the assessment of the state of this amendment and the addition of the law, which is that in June 2014, the European Commission assessed public administration in the Republic of Croatia as unsatisfactory and then spoke of fragmented public administration responsibility, recommended that a high level of fragmentation and overlapping of responsibility should be removed in a short period of time. You're coming as far as I know from the carlova County and you know that out of these 21 counties we have dislocated state administration offices in all of the county. So here's what I'd like to ask you to tell me the difference between the Management Department for the Economy of your county and the State Office for Economy in your county, I don't know if you'd be able to answer me. I don't know. Don't bother with that at all. It's a overlapping of these functions and it's very well the minister knows what it seems to me yesterday or the day before yesterday in one commercial television when he spoke about this, at least he talked about municipalities and cities most he took note of the choice of the menu of our team. He said one sentence that he would suggest that the island of Brac be one municipality. I would like him to propose that to the municipalities of Brac, so he will see what the opinion of these municipalities is. It's not good to think like that. I think we meet two things, which is the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the principle of subsidiarity. How many municipalities will there be? This is good enough to connect, let the municipalities join together if they want to, but that's why a referendum is needed, and not you, as you say, the decision of the commissioner, one thing. And another thing might create some new municipalities. Why not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120611	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120612	Thank you. An esteemed colleague of mine if he went to observe offices in his county, and I don't really know the meaning of 50% of the offices that are in my county, but that's a different story. Yeah, you're right, a lot of things overlap. You are right that the establishment of local self-government in Croatia is unsustainable. That you are right that the public administration in Croatia is not well-assembled, first of all in that segment of what I said about the absorption of the funds of the structural funds that should be one of the main drivers of this country's development. I agree equally and we agree at the SDP club that the issue of territorial structure should not be broken over the knee. It is a question that must be communicated primarily to the public with citizens with the population on the ground. So there's a lot of arguments, there's a lot of circumstances why there's some space where there's an independent municipality or why it's not. My view from Carlovec or your view from somewhere doesn't have to be identical to that of the man who's there, so it all has its own. And that's why structural reform of local self-government is not a process that should last a month, two, three, a year or something longer than one long-term process I fear will need to compromise all policy options in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120613	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120614	Perhaps the essence when we talk about this local self-government, the state administration when I'm talking about this 1974 Constitution should be seen in the merger of self-government and state administration. There is still a strong belief in the people that when they go to the building of the city of Buzet, we go to the municipality, when they go to the Office of Finance, they think the mayor is responsible for those people who work there, etc. I know that maybe it's not politically opportunistic to speak in a way that needs to be shut down or connected to actually some municipalities. Politically, however, it is certainly fair and legitimate thinking. It is not cost-effective today, but someone will have to talk about it sooner or later if we want Croatia to be much more successful, and hence those base units that we will call municipalities or cities are entirely relevant. No one can also say that our superiors, the mayors of the formerly headship or chieftains did not bother. No one can say that there was no infrastructure built, no one can say that our residents don't recognize themselves with these small municipalities as they recognize themselves with their parishes, but I just remind you of the fact that it should simply cost them. In Croatia we have 1537 parishes, we have 567 units of local self-government and regional self-government. There's a community coming to 2.7 parish. The municipalities are until '92. For years, they built hotels, built infrastructure, started jobs, built factories and built apartments. And today it's much, much more modest because mostly individuals think about themselves Involve and how you simply publicly turn yourself into a private one. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Time. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120615	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120616	Well, you're a colleague of yours often, and most of us are back in the past to that law, or that structure that was in the former state, saying that this system was completely decentralised. Yes, he was. In fact, the municipalities were practically state-owned at the time. Each municipality could make, be the owner of the school, or regulate the level of wages in the public sector, care for the development of its municipality. But you should know that at that time everything was decentralised except for one, and that's the party. She also appointed the head of the municipality, she appointed the head of the school. So there was this system in balance. As far as small municipalities are concerned, believe me, if some of the environments aren't for entanglement, they're primarily units, small units of local self-government. And you have a very good example in Istria, because precisely those environments, so in Istria, which became independent municipalities for the first time also experienced the greatest growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120617	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120618	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mateljan, 11 years old, was head of a local self-government unit at the time of the creation of a new territorial structure in 1993. I'm sure it was easier to manage local self-government units then than today, because in the meantime, there was a centralisation of financial resources that belonged to local self-government units on the one hand, and on the other hand, to decentralisation of jobs because many of the state's jobs had been brought down to local self-government units. And that's why it's harder to run local self-government units and then they lack resources even for their normal orderly functioning. And then it's said that local self-government units are not able to do certain jobs because they simply don't have the means to do so. I have not seen or seen a quality analysis in the Republic of Croatia so far that would indicate the inconsistency of such a territorial, territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia. Reform that, I agree, there is a need for reform of local self-government, but that does not mean automatic reduction, abolishing local self-government units. Such a territorial structure and the Law on Local Self-Government should be established to enable those tasks necessary for its normal functioning to be carried out in a local community and to provide the state with the means to do so. That example of you, which you have stated, that there are units of local self-government that are not able to do so, are not humanised that they can, for example, submit requests and applications for the use of European funds, is not sufficient reason by themselves. Therefore, there can be a county as a regional self-government unit that can in that part substitute the tasks of the local self-government unit. So, and the Priory does not need to say that such a structure is too bulky, but it is necessary to provide jobs and units of local self-government that it can financially endure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120619	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120620	Thank you. So this reason you cited as a permanent fiscal centralization and a permanent giving of a greater share of business and responsibility to a local self-government unit is not the biggest reason for the budget poverty of local self-government units. Because if you're going to analyze and explore, in fact, the budget of local self-government units is constantly growing, from their draft to today where we're talking, so also about the share of income tax lost in the share in profit tax, which is lost. However, the average income of local self-government is constantly growing. So it's not the only reason, there's more reason. I agree, but I'm still, and I'm gonna do it again at the SDP club, so things about the territorial structure don't need to be broken. So more arguments and more criteria should be included to actually determine what is an optimal territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia. It's clear... So there can be a municipality of 5 people in my opinion, but there can also be a municipality of 15000 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it depends on the circumstances and some standardisation of the procedure throughout the territory. Yeah, before any reform, of course, you need to do an analysis before you do the analysis. And I am convinced, therefore, that if, above all, the politics and the professional public in the Republic of Croatia reach a consensus that we will have a much better result than we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120621	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120622	Thank you very much. My colleague Matteljan, I'm interested, you said that you would support this law that has four articles. In these articles, as I have read and understood it, it says that it will actually enable me to translate it into a voluntary association of municipalities. Therefore, after a referendum held in certain municipalities, voluntary association of municipalities. But first of all, I think it's a permission for voluntary association of municipalities actually lacks the courage of your Kukuriku government and coalition, to simply enter into the administrative and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. It is that no one thinks of doing any decomposition, analysis, or elaborate on cost-effectiveness and possibilities, hence the new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. I think that Croatia as a state should do and as Cain said somehow consciousness Croatia in some 200 municipalities, let's say so and of course we should do an analysis that would talk about which municipalities would enter a new municipality. Here's what I'm gonna say. Here's what we're gonna support. Let’s also ask one chief in 428 municipalities if he would like to implement in his municipality a referendum to connect with the neighbouring municipality. None of them will answer you yes. Not one. And then how are you going to enforce this law? Not at all. Here, as they say just before the end of the term, here you are, so connect if you want, but it won't, no municipalities will connect. A little where you have an example but I don't think anyone has that even one chief would agree to this precisely for the reason someone here was talking about, I think Cain is then the boss in his village. Better to be said prince in the village than, I don't know how the people's proverb goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120623	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120624	Thank you. Well, dear fellow, so far in this law, there has been a possibility of creating a new community but only in a way to break up the existing one. So now a new tool is being provided that enables even those municipalities who want to connect, and they are neighbouring and that wants their population to be able to connect. Well, I believe that, therefore, the ministry has made these amendments and amendments to the law to the projection of these demands of the units of local self-government that they want, so I believe that even though I'm skeptical about it, I believe there will be something like that. As for courage for reform, structural reform of local self-government. Yeah, you're right, it wasn't, but it's not about courage, it's about time. This is one huge job that the next government is going to have to enter. So it's a job that can't be done for me in one term. Whether there will be 200, 300 municipalities in Croatia, who will be the municipality and who will not I personally dare say. So surely, this structural reform requires a deep analysis, an expert analysis to know but not to be wrong because we cannot work twice within 2 years of reforming local self-government. So we need to make a deal and we need to do the best we can and what we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120625	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120626	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this Proposal for a Law on Areas of County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, I would first of all point out what is in the preamble, i.e. in the assessment of the situation. First of all, by managing the fact that the existing territorial division, with a major fragmentation of the units of local self-government and their insufficient mutual cooperation, is a major problem, and given the recommendations of the Council of the European Union, as well as the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. As one of the specific objectives, a rationalised system of local and regional (regional) self-government has been included within which two measures are to be implemented. And define the model of functional and fiscal decentralisation and establish the optimal territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. So when we read these guidelines and recommendations from the Council of the European Union and the strategy, then this law is the first step in that part and we need and we need these measures to be taken. Next, the HNS club will support this law. In this law I see several important problems of these I will highlight the two most important. In particular, Article 4 of the Law defines that a decision on voluntary merger is introduced, meaning the system of voluntary merger of local self-government units is being adopted, their representative bodies by majority of the votes of all members following the citizens' opinions obtained in the area of the units to which the merger relates. And that's the first problem I'd like to point out. About this structure, the regionalization of structural reforms is all questionable, everyone can comment on it and especially many analysts in their seminars, workshops so that we all compare the example of one Denmark but no one is talking about one France that has a much larger territorial structure in some way fragmented than we do. And France and Denmark are not very poor countries, and they don't have a lifetime of 10 years, but they have centuries and thousands of years in that part, experience in democracy and debate. But what's most important in all of this is that, for me and as head of the local self-government unit for many years, citizens should be asked. No one asks them if they want to, if they don't want to, under what argument and how to explain it. So the definition after the citizens' opinions have been obtained is absolutely insufficient to me. What kind of opinion, what size of citizens, what number of citizens needs to decide on that? I think a better definition would be that if we go into that then it has to be a referendum. Because we have the Law of Referendum and there are precise definitions of certain things that can be defined in that section. The date of at least 50% and must indeed decide to oblige both the leader and the executive authority in their area. Because everything else and we've been cases within the framework and already the decisions of this session of the Parliament where we've had signing out on the streets, at the stands, that people want something. And when they do that that's someone, and first of all it's politics, when it happens to him then he sees that it's not exactly like that. We have cases and... It's pretty much on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, what's the problem, and that's how these people, our citizens, are justified and, above all, through some simulation, explain what's best for them. These simulations are gone and that argument is kind of a lot, a lot missing. When we talk about the previous structure it's said that we have in the previous state somewhere around 130 there were municipalities, cities no, they were then communities of municipalities and the question is what we had then. Here's a concrete example, we were part of the Ivanec municipality, it was underdeveloped and all of us who were in it can say that life was not easy, without municipal infrastructure, without an economy for many years. People were moving like refugees now, going to Austria, going to Germany. One of the municipalities of Bednja had 14,000 inhabitants a year ago, today there are barely 4,000, they all went out of the belly after bread. And now that we're talking about that part, how we're going to give an argument that people are willing to say that their community or city needs no longer function than they're going to join another. And there are two questions, first of all who will say they don't want to, and trust me, there will be a problem with the other who will join that community to themselves. Because when we look at that argument, and unfortunately I said too little we do first of all with one simulation, then when we compare the municipalities and cities that belonged to the former municipality of Ivanec, it is Lepoglava, Bednja, Donja Fruit, Klenovnik, then today we have a system that the average index of development 72%, that what is the worst average original income per capital are 855 kuna per capita. Average. So the most Ivanec has 1400, the least there are the municipalities of the Lower Fruit 350, and now the question is about this systematization and argument, and who's going to join who, who's going to tell us now, doesn't need us anymore because the three of them, if they join together, we're going to get an even bigger poverty than it was before because in that part we don't have that capacity and that goal that we wanted to make. So if we get together we want to go for better, we want to be more developed, we want those basic contents that we in cities have to achieve for our citizens. That's not the way we're gonna do it. On the other hand, we have cities and municipalities like... a little simulation, Vodice, Murter, Pirovac, Tisno, Tribunj, which also has a development index of almost 100% and the average income per capital is 3535. Four times more than that first example where we were in northern Croatia in Zagorje, in Varazdin County where there was former municipality... four times. And now the question in that part is who's going to join who because they're all self-sufficient in some way, they have big income, they have resources that can give citizens certain services. I believe that no one in that section will make a decision to abolish or join someone else. They're enough. So I point to problems that will absolutely arise and I hope that perhaps after not a year or two of this law that there will be favourable examples to prove that this law gives certain results. Because when it started as a territorial structure within Croatia, first and foremost in early '93. For years it's been done trust me with a six. It was placed on the sixth floor, circled around a center that was agreed by political will, and the municipalities were formed. Yes, it was, in principle, territory but then it was not seen whether these municipalities and administratively belonged to one city or not before, because we are also talking about geographically, not only geographically but also the traffic section that some of the municipalities that, for example, have a train to one center suddenly found themselves in a municipality or city where there could be no connection. Then after 10 years, there was a separation, an end, and so on. So we need to do a good analysis, the system of how these things should be done. And they were political decisions, let's be aware. In one city and municipality, we can't win the election, but one end is always ours, so then we'll single out that neighborhood, and we'll get as the politics of another mayor and mayor over. Yeah, we might get a poor girl or something that doesn't work, but it doesn't matter, statistically we have one mayor or chief anymore. The population number, shall we limit to, say, 10,000 inhabitants is the minimum limit for a certain city or municipality to function. Some countries did it. Too short, they'll be seen from the experience they're eating on the other side. Is that a development index? Let's define what's important is that if we hang out, we need to get one status, one content, one option more for our citizens. And when we do it all together, then it's very problematic and we see that there's a long way ahead of us. Of course, in this law we've still defined the structure of voluntary merger within the county I suppose. But what if some of the municipalities are in touch between the two counties and they want to join? It is then defined that this decision must because the county territorial structure has been terminated, and the county parliaments must also make new decisions on reshuffle in that part so that it is not only necessary to write units of local self-government, there should also be regional self-government which must also be decided in that part. There's another problem. When I said in that part of us in northern Croatia bordering the Republic of Slovenia if we wanted to join someone then we would like to join the Republic of Slovenia because my colleague in Slovenia who has three times as many residents as my city has three times the fiscal capacity of the city and the municipalities that we are on that border. You know why? Because it's a different way of supporting it. They have 700 to 1000 euros guaranteed per capita income. That's our basic budget. And the state continues to finance capital investments and standards needed by individual municipalities and cities. Now that's the fiscal capacity that we're talking about in that part and we're still starting to think that these are the criteria that we can be the basis for a particular city or community's survival tomorrow. Yes, but here we are now said by the new and old Law on the establishment of units of local and regional self-government has the possibility of legally joining other cities and municipalities along the way that we have joint services. Why don't we municipal redistribution, we should now have a communal director, traffic directorship, agricultural director. Why should more cities and municipalities not have one common system, why not have a single service that does an assessment and fiscal capacity or budget? And especially because it is also important about EU funds, while we are already talking about EU funds and there is another problem. By measure, measure 7.4 here I am talking about, for example, that each unit of local self-government can report itself to one measure and can highlight one project until it is finished then it can report to another. And now if you're gonna... Someone else, then 3 or 4 or 2 who have lost one reporting capacity to EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is a question, and why would they do that if we lost this capacity to apply to EU funds? Not to mention the criteria if you pass 10,000 inhabitants many projects are not available to you, or they will be very difficult in some things as such. And when we really want to highlight and streamline, that the question is that the reform of the local administration must be, it must really be structural reform. The point is that we really need to ask the citizens a referendum, and the only thing we know is that there is no dilemma then whether it is a political issue, an involvement or any other level. These citizens are the foundation of our society that has to decide and we really need to do it in an argumentative and professional manner, that after that reform, then we have a result that contributes to the development of all of us. And believe me, I know from experience, the foundation of every development is in citizens and local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120627	Replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120628	Clearly no one will connect, it is absolutely clear to me as it is clear to all of us. You're referring to the case of France. It is true that there are smaller municipalities there than there are in the Republic of Croatia, but not all French leaders are also professionals, and I claim that these in the Republic of Croatia are at least 90 and as many as 7 or 8%. Look on the other hand, and that system is the way it generates between the other and a lot of crime. I claim that 50 leaders, head of Istria, whether or not Mr. Bauk knows it, I don't know it weighs 2, 3 million euros. How did they come by that? By turning public into private. Why? Because they were at the source. The system said it allowed it. Such a structure also costs, costs the most indemnity of DORH, i.e. PNUSKOK that function in the Republic of Croatia on a remote basis. Second, why do I keep up with the structure that he ruled under the '74 Constitution? A year? At that time our municipalities were almost federal units, they were maximumly decentralised. Such rights as our municipalities had neither Austrian landers nor German federal states. They chose judges, police chiefs, territorial defenses, the head of the catastrophe, and today simply what it affects. We knew that because of the party monopoly, one who would be chief of police or judge must be in the party. But today you can't wear a trimmer in an Istrian water pipeline or a utility company in Pula if you're not a party member. And finally, the standard on the continent of Istria that someone mentioned has risen. But who claims to be smaller, to be managed by one Lannister from Buzet. Until '92. We were together. One Vodnjan if I'm not mistaken has 48 employee. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Time. Thank you very much.]] Well, that's at the annual level of six, seven, eight million euros. In 10 years 1 school, 1 kindergarten, 1 swimming pool and [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] [[You've already told us all about it, pal.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120629	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120630	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, you said two things and you explained them in one way, which is that the system allows certain malversions, i.e. the mistakes that occur and that the system costs. Well, yeah, the system might allow it. But believe me, the mayors, the mayors are doing nothing on purpose. It's done by certain trust me in ignorance, because such a system that produces so many obligations and responsibilities, and with you you don't have professional services or a team that can track it to you, you know, I practically wouldn't want to, as mayor of Lepoglava to say that everyone will come to me to be my guests including me. But we really do every time we sign all those laws on fiscal responsibility and all those things about the law we really need to be extremely serious, responsible, but also professional. And indeed all my colleagues are trying, and the system must be one that will help us, that will make certain things impossible. Why not? Not to wait in drawers for some 15 years, so it opens, but to process it immediately. And if the system costs, I agree. But that cost and cost can be very simple, in a way, regulated like in France or anywhere. You can't spend the basic substance of the budget more than I speak 15, 10% and limit it in that part. If someone wants to have their own city or municipality, and they have everyone working volunteerly, not only have fees but also free of charge. He may even invest his resources in it, so why can't it be? But it can't happen like we have today, like I have the total cost somewhere around 5% because we only have 8 employees in the city administration with 8 and a half thousand residents. You have 3,000 people in general and the city somewhere, so there are over 50 employees. I think citizens, of course, are the ones who say if they want to, they want that kind of cost, they want that kind of work and they vote for that political option and that mayor, and what we are not to tell them, so take it, you have what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120631	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120632	Dear colleague, you don't need to mix pears and apples. If you are already referring to France, then you could also refer to what they have a completely professional public administration system. With them, officials are educated for public administration work, and when it comes to government change, there is no change in people who are professionals in public administration. When we talk about the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, then we should bear in mind that this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is an interest in political parties, not the interest of Croatian citizens, and this is definitely not in the public interest. I am pleased that we agree that this reform is one of the most important reforms without which Croatia cannot go any way forward to carry out the referendum. We have been talking about this from the very beginning, and in the end, and in our proposal that we presented in Osijek from the beginning of 2014, we said that these were steps, or phases of reform. A detailed analysis of the units of local and regional self-government, the creation of a proposal for a new territorial structure, the definition of the authority of the central state of the region of units of local self-government, the decentralisation of funding, the definition of the powers of the central government of the region and the units of local self-government, the proposal to abolish counties and the establishment of regions of a new territorial structure, the proposal to join units of local self-government to draw a new map of local self-government units, the information campaign, the broad public debate, the referendum, the adoption of a package of laws and implementation. That's how Denmark did it. This took several years, it was seriously carried out, and if we are already comparing then we should bear in mind that Denmark has about 4.5 million inhabitants as well as Croatia, and France does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120633	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120634	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and perhaps even allowed to mix pears and apples for what you said because it is still fruit but we often mix pears and potatoes, and that has nothing to do with each other. That is why we forget that still EU countries, I said not 10, but have centuries of experience in democracy and experience in functioning. And we have to admit that these countries, their primary task is to be efficient, efficient by their work, action and efficiency by their finances. If someone really sees the fissibility of studies and other things to be the most optimistic, the cheapest content and that the results are then the West. And we should look up to them and look up to each other. But I say once again we must not forget in some way here are the experiences that have those and the process that we are in. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that many such things are done by people in particular by the territorial structure and work of JLS, and they were never even members of the local committee to know and what our citizens need and how to do so. It's easy to read this pre-election program and say here's what we'd like. But you know from one theory to practice itself and enforcement is a very, very long way, and above all should have certain experiences and references. So you don't let someone in the house fix you up in some way if it's not a plumber. And we're letting people who have never done anything like that go into one of those processes, or they've never been in charge of a unit, or they know how to do it. But, yes, citizens should always be asked first of all, they know best what is good for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120635	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120636	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree with your thinking, fellow Skvaric, which you said in your last sentence that citizens should be asked, I think it's very important. But let's start from the beginning, you've been talking about EU directives, and we've heard that many times in this House that we need to install them. And so there's no talking about it and let's say standing. Of course, we should also mention the Charter of Local Self-Government that speaks of the importance and importance of local self-government and we are all aware of that, especially of us who have been doing this for a long time, we are aware of the problems. And also these EU funds where I visit a number of municipalities where there are none in each one that thinks about using and those rural development measures that have been talked about as well so that it will be so that you can see how that doesn't work. But I think it's very important to draw attention to the part where citizens decide, how they do it, whether it's prepared, whether it's justified. Because in reality, you've talked about some examples from your environment, and in reality, it's often approached by some manipulations, people are promised hills and valleys. Well, I've had examples in my county where they went in a way to offer someone 100 kuna, they're going to be like some kind of support, like this, kind of, and then people end up being determined for something they're really not even aware of. The most tragic thing is if it's for some political reasons like this and for some reason. So all the choices pass and the problems remain for the people. People who decide to go somewhere and create something new environment they want better quality, want kindergarten, want everything children in cities enjoy and have opportunities. That's the way to approach the problem. Of course, quality preparation and argumentation allow people to make themselves known in a quality way about these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120637	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120638	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, yes, we agree that although the EU directives and the charters stress the importance of local self-government. So why? Well, the foundation, once again, of all the foundations and the development of society, is based between us and you are also the chief. What citizens want is us who need to articulate their needs immediately, their demands. But most importantly, we need to find solutions right away. Too many people today may be asking for help not from the county in this context but from the state and the ministry, and they forget that there is a solution between us. And whether or not there's a chief and the whole structure is capable or dependent on it is the overall development. And I also point out that people really need to know all the information, they need to know all the arguments they need, what they're going to get, what they're going to lose so they can make a timely decision. But they have to decide, not that now what you've really said and we know on the ground that there's always been some sort of limiting factor, above all, politics and interests that are. Yes, elections come and elections pass and for four years we enjoy what we choose. I think there needs a lot more arguments, more democracy, more work. I think that Croatia is growing more and more thanks to this government that has shown and opened up that people can decide on this and that they can make decisions that may not be good from the beginning, but in the long run we must have compassion. And what I said was democracy is a long-term process but the longest time begins with the first step. This law gives responsibility to us humans and I think we're aware and able to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120639	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120640	Thank you. I would agree with you that with regard to the voluntary merger of local self-government units, it would be most logical for residents from both local and local self-government units to decide on this referendum. Since you spoke on behalf of the club, I expect you to give the amendment to this amendment and the amendment to the law, and we will support it because it is the amendment, because it would be very logical and I agree with you there. I also agree with you when it comes to the fact that one of the fundamental sustainability criteria for these units should be, in fact, their fiscal capacity should be, in general, the financial sustainability of these municipalities and cities. And when you mentioned these cities of ten thousand inhabitants, I personally think that we have made a pretty bad solution not only when it comes to the financial capacity and fiscal sustainability of these units, but also about the concept of the city at all, I don't think there are 120 cities in Croatia. Most of these cities of 10, 12 or 15 thousand inhabitants were created so that actually there is a place that has 2 or 3 or 4 thousand inhabitants and the other ten thousand are added from the surrounding villages and just so there is a number of thinks that actually, I think these are places, they were always places, these are still places and the notion of a place is very legitimate and a good concept that better describes what we are today actually stupid and we call cities and de facto these are not, only de jure exist as cities. And I think this, and I agree with you that this is not going to bear any particular fruit, is it simply almost inexhaustible. What I didn't like about your debate is that you mentioned the possibility of not knowing how to cross into Slovenia some municipalities and cities. It's still anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120641	Marijan Skvarić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120642	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, if we agree that citizens' opinion must be binding and must be more uniform so that there is no possibility in the future above all of doubt or abuse of that decision itself. So this citizens' approach in my opinion is not a good formulation because we are not going to give amendments because let's give the citizens a chance if they do give the opinion that someone will not abuse it and if it is not a good next step we have to go to a referendum. But I do believe that it will not happen so quickly that someone, through the citizens' opinion, will make a decision that the entire municipality or city will be abolished and attached to others. Until now, only individual settlements, or villages, or areas have crossed some other cities, but the whole structure has remained in the area. Let's take a chance on what's said. And we agree that fiscal capacity should be the best for me because what we really need is to balance fiscal opportunities. And what I said here from Slovenia and other countries are doing it very successfully. So it wouldn't happen the moment you're looking at indexation that we have 10 times the difference between per capital income. So... income per capita. You have about 500 to 800 kuna, so we have cities and municipalities that get, they have as much as 8 to 9 thousand kunas per capita. But that's not even the problem, the problem is that not now these governments, but also all the previous governments are both to these cities and municipalities, which has been said several times in this debate, there have been support and incentives that I shouldn't think I should. They should not have given support because if they have such fiscal capacity, they can do it themselves. The fiscal capacity especially in Slavonia in northern Croatia is the same with the larger work that says that the north of Croatia rich and not, we are only competitive. And competitiveness means that from those less capacity and opportunity to make your organization the most possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120643	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120644	Thank you very much. Comrade Skurić, we agree that a referendum should be held, we just don't know who will write the amendment you as the first to mention it, or will we write the amendment that a referendum can make a decision on the merger of municipalities? But what makes him and his colleague Đurović have already said that, and even his colleague Holly told you in the replica, she actually signed our HDSSB programme and here he is twice here today. So fully rewritten HDSSB programme in connection with the new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. But what I'm not particularly going to say offends me, and there are other solutions is that you started talking about municipalities bordering relatively better-standing municipalities in other countries, countries speaking, so in Slovenia, perhaps now Baranja could declare the municipalities to go with Hungary, etc. Maybe even with Serbia some that border on it. Or with Bosnia and Herzegovina maybe Stara Gradiška Bosanska, but it is completely unimaginable I wouldn't even mention it in this Croatian Assembly and it hurts me very much. In addition, the EU has prescribed cross-border and has measures for cross-border co-operation. Why do municipalities bordering any of these countries not establish contacts and write cross-border cooperation programmes? The Osijek-Baranja County therefore withdrew a large number, i.e. a huge number of large amounts in euro, of course, to establish cycling trails that include our part of Baranja and the Hungarian part of Baranja and I do not know a number of other programmes. Why do you even mention the possibility of a referendum for someone to come out of Croatia and join another country? Don't ever mention it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120645	Reply to the replica Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120646	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning, you said about the goals of copying the goals and contents of the political programmes, so good things, and some... are mostly the same for all, the difference is only in which way and how you want to achieve that goal, and it is also important in which time you want to reach that goal, and most importantly for me, whether you have people checked out, experienced what you will achieve along with you. That's what the difference between theory and practice is. This second part, first of all, I don't think we could do it, would have gone away from Croatia long ago and gone to work in other countries, I didn't do it myself, but a lot of people from Croatia went to work in neighbouring countries with bread. And this migration, the economic migration that goes where she's better and you and me and no one can ban it anywhere. The territorial integrity must remain guaranteed this on the defender of the homeland we all showed during the Homeland War and there are no questions about it, but I only said one remark, it's people who decide, people look across the border, people look over the hills and ask it to be the same as we do there and they have the will and they want it, if it's nice. And we need to help to stop these people here today, we need to provide young people with work, and we need the content that needs to be provided to our citizens. This is our task, especially to us in this House, which we are passing laws and to our government that must also implement these same laws. So don't doubt my patriotism or Croatianism, but I don't like it, and I don't like it, because only by working it out, no more, not by holding onto my heart or by shouting it over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120647	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120648	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I thought that BOA... excuse the minister of administration in 4 years, so Mr Milanovic said he would start doing analyses, simulations, elaborate on a new reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia with the administrative and management that SDP promised in his Plan 21. Unfortunately, after four years of not working, don't worry and bring Croatia into a situation where, and this kind of formation of the Republic of Croatia has produced quite a high centralisation of the Croatian state, that we now have a situation that the Ministry of Administration proposes voluntarily or voluntarily, as my colleague Djurovic said, voluntary changes to the administrative borders of some municipalities that have to conduct polls. Who's going to conduct the survey? The head of the municipality, the state? Who? County? BOA, that's what a group of citizens used to be called. She conducted a local committee in Slavonski Brod called Podvinje, called the local committee, conducted a survey on the separation from the town of Slavonski Brod, so he had a large number of signatures sufficient, but some other shops failed. And so today, Podvinje remains in the membership of the city of Slavonski Brod. If I were to mention here that the town of Slavonski Brod, and based on the experiences of some other cities, I am primarily talking about Slavonia because from there I am of origin, could also be a city of 100,000 people if I joined the suburban villages of some municipalities, for example. I'm talking about the parts of the municipality only, so Sibinj, then Bukovlje and Vranovci, which is a real suburban municipality, then he would push on 100,000 inhabitants and gain the status of a big city with a university of course since yesterday we discussed here. However, let us also ask the executive authority in these municipalities, but also the residents of these municipalities or survey whether they want to be part of the town of Slavonski Brod. Which the head of the municipality will not work to ensure that this poll falls and even a referendum to be made, but the commissioner will work for the referendum to fall because, of course, the commissioner is in order to continue to be the chief or anyone else. Political parties, political elites or oligarchs have part of their apparitions not only here in the Assembly in terms of electing parliamentary representatives but boasts a large number of municipal and mayoral mayors and it is part of a prize game and some Jackpot or some kind of mini Jackpot. Because of this resistance in the major parties, we cannot implement, there is no political will and the BOA does not tighten or squeeze it. rather than before the end of the term of office, it is somehow given to the citizens to voluntarily show their will whether they will team up with another municipality. This is where we heard from the HNS club even the suggestion that some municipalities can team up outside the Republic, so please, which is unconstitutional and think, let alone say here. Come on for municipalities that from other counties would so-called neighbouring counties, for example. Babina Greda comes to us in Vukovar-Srijemski and Gundinci in Brod-Posavina County. They're just neighbors, 2km away, or S.H.I.E.L.D. from Vukovar-Srijemska, for example. Slavonic Shamac. So when we look at this structure that's cataractly made, it's now 567 municipalities, cities and counties. And then I look at my county that has two cities of Nova Gradiška and Slavonski Brod and 26 municipalities or one Požeško-Slavonska Đurović County which, from 75 to the top of the head up to 80,000 inhabitants have five cities and five municipalities, so there are more cities than Brodo-Posaviska which is twice as big. These are the paradoxes of the administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia. So the cities are Požega, Platernica, Pakrac, Lipik and Kutjevo. There's Kutje's town. It's cities. And about the municipalities now Velika, Jaksic, Kaptol, Caglin and Brestovac, so these are the municipalities in Požega-Slavonska. Now I will not list 26 municipalities in Brod-Posavina County but I believe if I could list some of you except who was elected to our constituency I would know these municipalities and where they are and let alone what they mean in the Croatian state. It is really necessary, it is high time because this structure, the administrative administrative Republic of Croatia, is also a brake for further development of the Republic of Croatia. With all that Mr. Cain was saying about telling the possibilities, I will not say directly about someone that he stole 3 cars, that there are 8 houses like some mayors and mayors and some other powerful property but it is quite certain that this structure is with the maximum centralization of the fiscal Republic of Croatia, the maximum fiscal centralisation, so one of the reasons why the Croatian state clearly lags behind the mentioned one, far lags behind that mentioned Denmark, which Cain spoke of has five regions so that we should somehow have 98 municipalities. And now we can negotiate there, there can be more, given the shape, geographical form of the Croatian state and the diversity of the relief and everything else, tradition and there are a number of other elements. But it wasn't a lab, it wasn't a parchment, it wasn't an analysis. There are no simulations of what the Croatian state might look like. Someone here says that people will agree on a poll, a referendum. So how was this decision taken, the polls, the current Law on Local Self-Government Units, on Territories? Well, the state brought them in, so she didn't bring in a local self-government unit, and we're going to have these five, six villages. That's what the state has decided. Well, even now, the state has the authority to pass such a law that the Ministry of Administration makes, to work on it and to make decisions, and then we can possibly carry out a referendum, etc. Or you don't have to spend it at all. If we're referring to the rationalization of local units, the number of units of local self-government and also regional self-government. Because it seems that now in the state you have a government and you have a county. All the departments that have almost the county also have the state administration. So what is it? It's how you hire your personnel in the county and the state administration as some kind of control mechanism that actually does nothing, does nothing. Ask people who work and who are very close to what is the function of the state administration in the county. Nothing. To get paid. That's where the rationalization should be done. That's where the rationalization needs to be done. It is necessary to create natural regions. The municipalities are aware of some number that is understandable, optimal. I'm not going to speak here now because I know exactly who we are in Slavonia, where there are 128 municipalities and cities in Slavonia. And do you know how many of those 128 municipalities belong to that, according to the creation of the Ministry of Regional Development in municipalities below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia? Only 10 reach 75% of Croatia's average. Of these 10, 9 are cities and only one municipality of 128 is above 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. What municipality? It's a plugin. The other one. Everyone else is underdeveloped. That's terrible. And we've been crying out for years as we've established ourselves and separated ourselves from this big party, so large in terms of my numbers, etc., I'm not going to talk about other things that aren't that big. And so that's why we built our own program and we'll keep working on it. The Croatian state can't take this anymore, especially Slavonia. Slavonia, Baranja, Srem and Podravina. Before the Homeland War, so before the creation of an independent, independent Republic of Croatia, it was divided, the Socialist so-called The Republic of Croatia was divided into 105 municipalities. In the area of today's County and Brod-Posavina there were 2 municipalities, the Municipality of Slavonski Brod and the Municipality of Nova Gradiška. Today in the municipality of Nova Gradiška, the former municipality of Nova Gradiška has 10 municipalities and the town of Nova Gradiška. And on the Slavonic-ship side, we have this one city and 16 municipalities. And now look at the development possibilities, the fiscal capacity of municipalities that can't even almost be themselves. You have municipalities in our county that can't even cover the work of the municipality with their fiscal capacity, their financial opportunities. And yet you have municipalities that are also in such a position but employ 25 employees. I'm not gonna talk here right now so I don't know who's calling me, but there are municipalities run by the ruling party again... which has 25 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One Vir can have 260 employees together with companies, urban companies cleanliness, water supply, etc., because the fiscal capacity of the island of Vira is huge and because of legalisation, the strongest in the Republic of Croatia. Thank God there are such, thank God there are such but a great majority and especially those in Slavonia are in a completely different position. Or, for example, that a Vir who has 3 thousand inhabitants has a budget of 110 million and one, was Mr. Box on the Day of Vir Municipality, so we were together and we heard the data that was fascinating. Great, we're all too happy together. But then I was saddened by myself and him who's from Benkovec, that Benkovac and all the municipalities in Slavonia have a completely different situation. Yes, it was nice to hear that information for the Vir Municipality, but Slavonian municipalities are in a completely different situation, including Benkovac, of course. I don't share that Slavonia and Dalmatia. You see, the Ministry of Health has decreed a hospital. The best example is Slavonsko-brodska and Novogradska hospital, now it's a hospital. Slavonski Brod General Hospital. Does the Ministry of Administration also have the opportunity to bring in some programme and offer them to municipalities with a mathematical calculation of advantages that will have such a model to create a new administrative and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I can say as much as I want to speak here from this pay phone and you will be replicating me, but there is what Mr Babic said, and I have followed closely the conclusions of the European Commission which said in June 2014 that the public administration in the Republic of Croatia has declared public administration unsatisfactory, or expressed the view that it is very fragmented, so it is divided into 567 small units. The responsibility of the public administration at both regional and local level is a complex division of competences between... and it has also expressed, and we are not talking about this, and that fragmentation is also at a high level, so here also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the number of parliamentary representatives. That's what we're not talking about. Of course, the country with 4 million inhabitants, with this number of parliamentary MPs, with this number of units, and we could have different then and the Election Law on election of MPs if we were to make regions and by the regions of elections, there would be fewer representatives in the Croatian Parliament, there would be less costs of the Croatian Parliament, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's how we'd save our lives, so it'd be normal. But with us, we have to take care of all these commissioners, deputies, secretaries, buy them cars A6, and I don't know what kind of things I don't. There's a lot of expenses here. Having achieved some results on the infrastructure, you have in Brod-Posavina County 18 municipalities have economic or entrepreneurial zones. In 16 they grow ambrosia capital. These are the successes of our entrepreneurial zones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120649	Time. Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120650	You touched Mr. Grubisic on an extremely important topic. In this law, we all know that there's no way that there's just gonna be no way, that's the truth. It's interesting, yesterday a citizen told me, in this country everyone strikes from teachers, teachers, doctors, only no one strikes in local self-government. Earlier, a colleague said he had a municipality where about 3,000 residents came from 30 employees, tenants. We have a case of the City of Vodnjan on 5600 people they've 48 seem to be employed to me. Why is that allowed? Because it's all about choice. If local elections go somewhere around 30% in that 3,000-seat municipality, it means it's going to cca 1,000-seat polls. If you have 30 employees times 4 it's 120 voters, but there's also utility companies, there's another 30 people employed. Well, then there are still 30 people employed on the Supervisory Boards, in the councils, etc. You come to the structure of a political of 100 people, and that's where the elections come in. The reform of the electoral system you mentioned may also be crucial, both at the state level where you correctly noticed that MPs should be elected directly and locally. Among other things, it should be to introduce a mandatory exit to polls such as in the Netherlands, such as in Denmark, such as in Australia, and no one will convince me that these countries are not democratic. decentralisation modeled in '74. A year, so our municipalities were far, far more decentralised, more powerful. These were almost confederate units from German or Austrian länder. And another piece of information I'm looking at, we have 42 municipalities and cities, county, 208,000 inhabitants in Istria. In the Primorje-Goran County 36 per 296 000 inhabitants, and in Osijek-Baranja on 330,000 inhabitants of 42 units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120651	Time. Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120652	Yes, it's a good thing I encouraged you to think about changing the electoral laws, so they are closely tied to the territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. But when you said that the chief just doesn't know what he should do to kill an axe with his mother, maybe so you would vote against him in the next election, you have lifetime commissioners, but I won't speak in terms of someone who likes to use the word sheriff, I'll never say that because there are very honest mayors and mayors who do a great job. But that's where I said there are 25 employees per 4,000 inhabitants, and they're also humanitarian aid, so the help that the Red Cross was sharing is actually, and the activists were sharing aid or state aid, and they said this. Here's this help 10 kilos of flour, 5 kilos of oil, 10 kilos of potatoes, and I don't even know what, you know who it's from.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120653	Replica, the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120654	Thank you. You know what is bizarre in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, for example, the Municipality of Brestovac and the City of Pozega will be able to merge in a way that conducts the survey and that the municipal council and the city council make decisions on merger and the procedure is over. And if, for example, the local board of the municipality of Brestovac called Završje and which is a de facto suburban settlement of the town of Požega added to the municipality of Brestovac was to be separated from the municipality of Brestovac in the town of Požeg, then the procedure is completely different, then it can no longer be voluntarily separated from the area of the municipality and join the city, but we already have that from the collection of signatures to the decision of the municipal council, the County Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament by amending the Law on the area of the local self-government units. So it's almost an abnormal situation. Wouldn't it make sense then that such voluntary accession is implemented in some way on local committees, so also on their ability to attach, but not in a way that requires a municipal council or city council, that unit from where it goes to give consent. I mean, why would it give consent? This is, in itself, a situation in which it could not be delayed, precisely because the one you want to leave and the residents and, to the local board, give 100% signatures of course to the representative body of that unit of local self-government will not give consent to someone leaving it. This only happened in cases where there was a strong political will and political force and they were all from the same party from the local board through the unit of local self-government, the county, the state and we saw, we had only a few examples of such phenomena during and this term of office of this government because they were all from the SDP. But I think it's a situation that actually makes it impossible for citizens to decide freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120655	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120656	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, I obviously reminded you with the local board of Podvinje in Slavonski Brod that this is exactly the case. He cannot, therefore, leave the town of Slavonski Brod and become an independent municipality if the City Council of Slavonski Brod does not give the green light for it, and that green light will never give. So we have to find a way to do that, but I think we're actually wrong all together. Well, you can't volunteer who's going with who. Well, maybe the two chiefs will be good, family-bound there, I don't know the Andres, the Sikirites, so let's go together, and we'll make a community. Well, it's outside, so I guess the state has some tools and certain possibilities and legal to set and criteria, it has to make criteria, and as I've already told some analysis which would be good, which would be generally good to join and that it will then be explained in a broad debate to the citizens that it's great, to convince them. How are you going to conduct a survey or I don't know the referendum, if no one there has explained to him that it's great, that the Andrians and the Razors are, and Vrpolje is one municipality. So how's it going? Who's going to vote for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120657	Replica, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grubishic, I listen to you very often here. You talk a lot about decentralisation. Okay. I agree that Croatia needs to be decentralisationd, but now you're talking about the fact that here's the Commissioner's not going to connect, that it's not going to be good about this law that we're bringing here. Turns out you're against decentralisation here. I mean, first of all, you need to be consistent with whether you're centralised or decentralisation. You're still talking about hiring their staff in the county. I don't know, I don't forget it but it's not maybe your party runs the Osijek-Baranja County because you know it from your experience to hire staff there. I mean, the fact that in these four years, you rarely hear a nice word, something that's not a criticism. So I'd say I'd like to see a day in Parliament if you were ruling, I don't think I'll ever see it, but I'd like to see what you'd talk about in this assembly if you didn't criticise it. It would probably be very difficult for you if we had to talk here and that it wasn't just criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120659	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120660	What they say is, where it hurts, it scratches, so do you. from the Kukuriku Coalition. [[I guess where it's itchy.]] So you did not spend, and in Plan 21 you announced the decentralisation of the Croatian state. You have done nothing but offer us this voluntary law the last day of the Croatian Parliament. And nothing more. That's what you'll see when we vote tomorrow. You're not my judge and interrogator. Therefore, about the experiences where Osijek-Baranja County has only 10 administrative departments, and there are your counties where your mayors have 16 departments. Talk about how many you've created and how many you've put the headmaster in your county. Yes, and about decentralisation, above all, fiscally, you did that by changing the law, you took away the Income Act from municipalities that now exist a great number of millions of kunas. Here's your contribution to fiscal decentralisation, and in fact the robbery of units of local self-government, cities and counties. That's your contribution and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120661	New replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you talk a lot about rationalising local self-government. But what I would like to point out is that rationalization is not the same as reducing the number of units of local self-government. So I believe that no decision should be made over the knee first. Well, neither does this one. The more that is, here is the much mentioned French model, the French model that has a whole series of municipalities, departments and the like for certain historical reasons and traditional reasons that function more than well because they have joint administrative departments, because they share communal directors, municipal drive, etc. etc. You mentioned an example of the Slavon ship, or Podvnje if I'm not mistaken. I can give you a similar and opposite example. A similar example is the village of Lebanon, which is part of the municipality of Cepin, which I would say by some means geographical gravity, but also by the feeling of citizens should actually be within the city of Osijek. On the other hand, you have Tenja, a large suburban settlement of the city of Osijek Even for a time there was an initiative to separate it into its own municipality. So, tends for both of us certainly exist. Also, when we talk about the number of cities, I think in Osijek-Baranja County, we can handle it the easiest way. We have two cities that are also physically connected, Valpovo and Belisce. So why wouldn't it be one city? And political issues certainly exist, but I don't think they're crucial. I say, as you mentioned, there are mayors and mayors who do more than right and good work. Unfortunately, there are also those who are not, or are not, doing their job well, but they need to be honored by the citizens of a particular municipality or city. So you have those lifers who haven't done anything for their community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120663	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120664	I'll start with Belišce and Valpov, colleague Hajdukovic, how would you give this new town that if it were connected, which is usually connected I know and you, Belval or Valbel? It would be difficult for us to decide in a referendum whose first, so Bell or Val? But it would be nice and even look a little like the name of the French town of Belval, right? And speaking of France with its departments, the arondisseurs and the vast so-called local and regional self-government in which the system is otherwise set up. Croatia, I am talking about fiscal centralisation, is the most centralised state with Greece and Cyprus. And here we are, in fact, economic. Even in Greece there is a far better situation, there is a minimum pension of 700 euros, minimally, as our assembly almost did. So when you talk about Lebanon and you used this local part, really Lebanon is the suburbs of Osijek, it belongs to Chepin, it would give you a lot. But so does Minister Bauk, who knows every step of this country and Boa hasn't decided to tighten, that it works, that it doesn't sting, it doesn't bite, but to take measures that are a lot to tell the directives, and I don't know what, one law that would naturally go to a public debate about a new reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia. Well, you volunteer who's going to be with whom, there's a lot of things that can happen. It is a very dangerous precedent I would say legally but here is the contribution to decentralisation of Croatia, the law of the last day of the Croatian Parliament proposed is here in this sense. But okay, come on. That's where you and I get along.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120665	A new replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120666	Thank you very much. I agree with you that this is one of those laws that has been passed in the last two, three days because the Kukuriku coalition has not actually fulfilled what it has promised under Plan 21, so I look at this law as well. And the fact is what you said and you repeated several times that this law was not preceded by any analysis or criticism or cost impact assessment, absolutely nothing. But if we wanted to change this law we have a local self-government for 22 years, so there's enough time when today we're bidding on some of the municipalities as many as there are, whether there's a lot of them or not, whether they're coming together or not, we could talk about this functionality that I often repeat, about the lack of development of these municipalities, the population, the demographics yesterday we talked about, near the border in the far line because it's our strategic interest. That they are necessary, that these municipalities are needed by the local population and that the problems are actually solved where they came from has shown you this immigrant crisis right in your part. Now imagine that the municipality of Tovarnik, the town of Beli Manastir, did not react to certain settlements, that they did not organize which chaos at the beginning would be at the very eastern borders of the Republic of Croatia and the chaos continues until today. We looked at these pictures on our television and we actually saw how the people organized themselves. And those who should have done so did not do so but urged the people in these crisis situations to react because the government is unable to make decisions in peacetime situations, let alone in crisis situations. Can you imagine, and someone told me today, what would happen if Croatia had nuclear weapons and held the key in Zoran Milanovic's hand? What kind of decision would that be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120667	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120668	Thank you. Do not worry about refugees, we have a plan A, B, C all the way to Z will be a plan and perhaps after Z is. Anyway, I'm glad you're expressing my admiration and gratitude to those people in Tovarnik, in the White Manastir, in Ilaca in the Baranja village of Petrova, Bapsko, here's Bapska in the rush to tell some of Ilova and to little Bapska that Slavonia is right. Therefore, these people are spontaneously, completely spontaneously no coordination between the headquarters of the central one, so there was no lowest. But well, that's another topic. What you've said and what you've offered me on the line is an assessment of the costs and costs of so-called implementation and the cost of unifying individual municipalities. Of course, they will fall upon the burden of the municipalities. Well, the state won't pay that cost, so that's completely understandable, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120669	Replica, Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120670	Thank you, Vice President. I would just in fact not bile replication but on a quote from my colleague Grubisic where he said in fact that there are very many municipalities in Slavonia that no one has even heard of and no one can place them anywhere and that Croatia is not important. We actually turned the whole thing upside down. These municipalities are important to its citizens, no matter how many there are, 500 or how many. They didn't come from '93. I don't know until I don't know when the last municipality was already formed because of the chiefs and presidents of the municipal councils, but they were created because of the citizens themselves, on the citizens' initiative. Not because a party has more or less commissioners. And when we talk about this law, we should talk about it the same way. So the citizens elected a municipal council to decide whether they wanted their municipality's smaller fiscal capacities. But for some other reasons, worse to attach to a better community, which has better kindergartens, cheaper kindergartens, a better school, better road care. And that way, the citizens will again exercise their democratic right. We must not underestimate the importance of citizens in this democratic process. They may seem a long way off to us because they choose every four years, but they choose both the chiefs, and the municipal councils, and they stand behind the decisions of their municipal councils. And when you were saying that only one municipality is actually above 100% there are actually a lot of municipalities that the development index has over 100%, so here are colleagues of Allen from Brdovac, from Šenkovec and many others, Istria is full of such municipalities that are actually good... about Slavonia then fine, but there are many municipalities that therefore realize the wishes and potentials of their citizens for which they are founded. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120671	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120672	Sir, my dear replicator, I don't know, Neklic, is it Neklic? And I don't know what it is anymore. So I said that out of 128 municipalities and cities that now exist in Slavonia, only 10 of them are above 75% of the RH's development index. Of these 10 9 are cities such as Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Gradiška, Požega, etc. And there's only one municipality, one municipality, and that's Chepin. Here's what Mr. Hajdukovic knows. Let him confirm he's from your party. And as for the citizens of these municipalities, of course, they are important to the citizens, but we, too, would need to know about these municipalities. Well, I know about the Cherkevac and the atomic shelter in the Dvor municipality, and I don't know what's not here either. We'd have to take more, and we'd have to make sure the citizens here hear about these municipalities that are in Brod-Posavina 28, sometimes also about Caglin, who has 92% unemployment rates and not from my county, but from Požega-Slavonska. So now, why don't you imagine 92% of the unemployment rate? The largest not in Europe, from Antarctica to the Arctic. That's the highest unemployment rate in Caglin County, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120673	Replica Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, so when we talk about territorial structure, then we talk at the level here, as mentioned above, by local self-government, it's regional self-government, it's now regions or state level. We know that at the state level, the unimpaired integrity of the Republic of Croatia, these legal and border frameworks, is not a question at all. Around the region, we can discuss some things whether they are just statistical regions or whether they will be administrative regions, we can also discuss the same thing. But you've mentioned more than once at regional self-government level, so these are the counties you see as the least meaningful and should be abolished. In my opinion, the same opinion that you said they should still be, giving them the opportunity to be a service to local units, especially those units that we look at here are smaller, so they don't have fiscal capacity, they don't have administrative capacity, they don't have operational capacity to define certain things. And there may be a later law that allows them to be transferred to the county. Why, for example, a smaller municipality that has three to four employees should deal with its spatial arrangement when there is no capacity for it? Or are we dealing with some kind of strategic developmental thing that really enables a full analysis? It can do County for them. EU funds if a good department is created and Slavonia has experience in EU funds can operate these projects. These projects are not supposed to be done locally anyway, but have to be done regionally. But what I really want to say is that we're all in these arguments about abolishing or joining up looking for an alibi. We don't want to speak by name or name. This study of analysts could say, for example, whether you would now be willing to make a request to your county assembly that this county should not and should not go away. Is anyone ready to come to your home and tell me here's our town and the community needs to be abolished. We'd all like it to be everywhere just not in our backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120675	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120676	Mr. Skuric, you've been saying what I heard, because I'm a little behind you, so I can barely understand you and hear you. So you were talking about NUTS regions and I wasn't talking about it at all. But you did an even worse thing than Sanader did. He created the NUTS region and you brought us together with Zagreb, and we know how much he has GDP compared to Slavonia. Now we who are 35% of the EU's GDP in this union, no one in the dream asked if we wanted to, but your government made a decree by law to join the NUTS 2 region with Zagreb. And now we have in Slavonia when the entire average looks at the entire region of Zagreb and Slavonia together 68%. Look, only we didn't notice that we have now jumped from 35% to 68% of EU GDP. That's very interesting. And secondly, ask the mayor, the county assembly, the head of European affairs and EU projects will he take over projects for the Sikirevec municipality so that they do so and do the department for European affairs and projects? Well, there's no county, so who can order the county to do a project for the municipality? No one, did you prescribe it by law? You're not. So if it's not prescribed by law, then it doesn't have to work. He's doing projects like that. I don't know what he's doing. Therefore, no one will take over the work of a municipality, the head of the municipality and their services in the county and say that we will do it for you. In addition, there are resources to be provided, which is 15% to be provided by municipalities, local self-government and for the project as well as for the implementation of the project, the realization, the realization as you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120677	The last replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120678	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you said in your debate that this territorial structure was designed in a caratically manner. I think this definition is too rough and I don't think it's true in my opinion. I believe, of course, and I suppose those years when units of local self-government were created to include criteria of historical heritage, cultural identity and various other criteria such as economic forces. Of course, you've been making arguments against this number of cities and municipalities and about many arguments we can and agree on. Of course, the basic issue whenever we talk about local self-government units is to finance health and education basic and secondary education. Only 54 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia can finance these needs, so this is 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb and 33 cities. Of course, you mentioned a key issue in this regard and the EU funds and the withdrawal of funds and the participation that cities and municipalities can have and there is a very important reconstruction. And these are the arguments we talk about when we talk about too many. You mentioned income tax there, you know that's not exactly what you say. More than half of the 275 municipalities today were in various systems or assisted areas of special state care of them 180, mountain-mountan 45 and islands 50 according to the development index in Slavonia is 100 new municipalities that have an index of less than 75%. So for Slavonia, that story is good. On Tuesday, Minister Lalovac released 200 million kuna for the needs of municipalities for their liquidity. But what's the point of my replica when we talk about an expert answer to this question here's what you and I can agree on in some things, but the political response you can't impose, the political response has to go from the municipal councils because otherwise it simply won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120679	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120680	And you claim and the same you have the thesis of colleagues that the municipality was created because of the citizens, and now it exists because of the chief, it's that the thesis. And now you want to come back and let the citizens decide. But when we talk about that, I don't know what you're saying, that territory and municipalities or county are stupid, that it's stupid what I said or it's stupid that I said it wasn't good. So, here I'm asking you are from Virovitica-Podravska County and our region is somehow called Slavonia and Baranja, and is it Pitomača Slavonia and Baranja, so let me ask you whether Podravina is closer to everything and from ancient Koprivnica than Virovits? Is Jasenovac and Novska where there was a furniture factory there was Slavonia, no longer there, and in Nov or in Daruvar Restaurant Slavonia, knows Mr Babic here from SDP it is the best restaurant in Daruvar, where he writes, and have the documents of Austria-Hungarian that it is the best resort in the Kingdom of Slavonia. And today it belongs to Bjelovar-Bylogorje County, Pitomaca Virovitičko-Podravska, and Novska and Jasenovac Sisak-Moslavina County. So one Glina and Novska are 150km away in Sisak-Moslavina County. So these limits are made for something. I'm not going to talk about why, I know why, and so does Mile Horvat and many others know. So, I don't know what's stupid, because I said it's not good, or you agree with me that it's a stupid division, I don't know. When you said 10% of the unit is capable of health and education, it's not true. You said 20 counties. The owner, founder of the hospital in Slavonski Brod, was unable to cover the costs of healthcare, which went through decentralised funds and others to settle costs. Today it's all state-owned and it's not true this finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120681	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's very interesting to listen to debates when there's some kind of legal proposal on our benches, but this way, I say a free topic, that you can talk about it any way you want, and it doesn't take anything back, because it would be very interesting to see the debates that were when we were discussing the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit and the Law on Mountain Areas. These are two fundamental laws that generally regulate whether the units of local self-government established can meet the needs of their citizens or cannot. And today very often everyone is invited to the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in '93. Some have spoken criticalally to most, but colleagues and colleagues, in fact to all of us, so why has no one in the past 22 years if someone has changed it so badly? However, if you look at the assessment of the situation as a basis for the adoption of this law, then you will see these two findings that we may have talked more about today, which is a recommendation from the EU Council on overlapping activities between different levels of units of local self-government, and the second thing that this law is applicable in nature is best spoken to you by this provision and the area of regional self-government from 2007, which came into force in 2009, so the law still says that there are no more chapters since 2009 because the mayors and the mayors, however, we still have a regulated headship in the law, etc. So much for the application of this law. This is one law to say a clean make-up before the elections to say here we give a simpler way to units of local self-government so that they can join together, etc., however, how many of these examples we have in the past and how many we will have in the future. But I'm saying good intentions and no one will be against her. However, I will allow myself the same certain thinking and thinking on behalf of the HDZ Club as other colleagues before me, but I think I will see things more realistically and correctly, not use this pay phone for some kind of political speech because I don't think we simply have a right to our citizens. For the simple reason, the law defines exactly what the care of the municipalities is, what is the care of the city and what is the care of the county. Certain processes of decentralisation of certain functions are started there somewhere in 2007, 2008 when certain tasks that have been in the jurisdiction of the state offices have been brought down to 30 major cities, including what is very important to citizens is the issue of building permits, the issue of certain permits for the work of companies and crafts, and spatial planning documentation. But colleagues and colleagues when we talk about decentralisation and when we talk about local self-government units should have more money. Okay. Let's do this and now tell me which fiscal income we could reroute to local self-government units based on some percentage that politics has no impact on this distribution due to a major inequality in the development of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia. Because when you look at the balancing fund, in principle he might practically not have used 10 cities to raise income tax money. Or remember once there was a provision in the law that profit tax was shared between units of local self-government and state. 80% of that profit tax came into the city of Zagreb's budget. Why? So because all those companies and corporations that have the highest profit, which are the most profitable banks, the non-banking financial sector, large state-owned companies, oil companies, were all in Zagreb and regardless of what was achieved by providing services throughout Croatia's profit tax was basically sitting in the city of Zagreb. So this unequal development, the entry into the European Union has opened up space for us. Is that where the government took that real step and step up? And whether the government referred the correct guidelines to local self-government units regarding the use of the Regional Development Fund, precisely the funds used to remove these imbalances. Because we in Croatia without these funds, let's not get carried away we'll never make it because it's too much of a difference. And then we have one totally wrong population migration. We have a population migration towards jobs that have a higher standard of living. And many places remain empty to us. And you, if certain economic projects do not have something to lean on people, then you can hardly talk about the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Because that's the real problem. So we can talk here whatever we want, and we can sell stories according to which election unit we want as much as we want. Because look, when someone says they don't need a Zagrebe-Sisak highway, it's like he fired a bullet in Banovina and the people of Banovina, maybe a little vulgar and rough, but it's literally like that. Because who will go to a space that has been destroyed by war, where the industry is destroyed and still needs an hour and more time to travel to Zagreb. Would Lika, would the Dalmatian Zagora today look like it wasn't built on the highway as it looks? Or the migration towards Split, according to Zadar, would be far stronger and far more intense according to Rijeka. And then our story about local self-government units would be even worse is they just don't have the means to function. Thus, it is the state that creates basic infrastructure projects for the strength of individual units of local self-government and, legally, by virtue of what they must carry out, gives them certain financial resources paid in the budget by citizens in its area and by businesses in its area. And that's the only truth. We can talk as much as we want. Because when you look at one city, let's take any of the 30 largest cities. What's he working on? What plans do you make when you make a budget? You bring a plan to meet common needs in sport, meet common needs in culture, a programme of development of municipal infrastructure and all together, and that is basically your budget, and you benefit from it. Now the question is if by amending the law on the financing of local self-government units takes a billion and 800 million kunas of some 10, 12 billion kunas available to you, he has lifted all the leverages of governance and all the levers when we talk about decentralisation. But look, colleagues and colleagues, when we talked about the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units and the Mountain-Mountain Areas, we didn't talk as we talk about today quite uniquely about how it should be. Why? Because it was necessary to defend the political option that was, which proposed the law and that political option is in power. And the logical thing is that then colleagues and colleagues are politically thinking. Look at the other day there was an amendment to the law around the mountain-mounted areas. And look at my colleagues on my left side of the assembly as they discussed the law the other day or as most of them debated 7, 8 months ago when the law was passed. And that's our political defect as an agent. So funding sources are a prerequisite and a basic story of whether local self-government units can or cannot function. Like this... What we have, you have a series of small municipalities that have a million-and-a-half budget, two kunas, but they did a great job with regard to the communal equipment of their municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because they had a capable chief. The man who knew which door to knock on, what contest to report, how to drag those across Croatian waters, Croatian forests, Croatian roads, through this fund, received funds and his small municipality excellent communal, infrastructure equipment. You can see, you want around Rijeka, you want around Zagreb, you want around my Velika Gorica, any city, look at the border areas of these cities, and look at these areas of municipalities that rely on these border areas, and you will see where the successful mayors have been, how much better these municipalities are originally equipped. So whether or not one unit can survive when everything depends on the state budget depends not on the income capacity but on the ability of the people who lead and how much they want to engage. But I'm saying apparently someone estimated that this topic was convenient to put practically five minutes before the disbanding of this Parliament. However, when we talk about units of local self-government and the formation of certain functions, then it is true that when certain natural disasters are in Croatia, and even now this wave of refugees are those who have organised civil protection in the right way, according to the regulations, who have invested funds in civil protection can react to the first step without problems and prevent certain disasters. Those who unfortunately did not have financial opportunities there, who were waiting for someone from above to see that some problems had to be solved, unfortunately, and the process should also be one of the key and priority things when we talk about local self-government units. The mandatory organisation of certain services will be with fire departments. Because look colleagues and colleagues, when we in the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units have installed that units of local self-government that have public fire departments have the right to participate in income tax was then I think 1,9 or how much, then there was a mass establishment of public fire departments regardless of whether someone can or can't establish it. What happened? He's got those 1.9 and that 1.9 wasn't enough for half his salary, and you public fire department can't have without professionals. So that's what I'm telling you when it's unreasonable then what's going on. Then they asked for money from the state budget for the salaries of these public fire departments. So if some things come down and I think that's crucial for the efficiency of the county, and also for the local self-government unit, the powers from the ministries to major cities or the county, that this is done practically on the ground where people need these services, then they need to be adequately reduced to the means that they can implement it and practically ensure the uniformity of their behaviour. Because it can't happen that in one city for a building permit you have to wait weeks, and in the other you have to wait five months, and the plan-space documentation has been passed and the legal conditions are the same. So we have a series of questions, and maybe in the future it will take here in this House of Commons to open up a series of thematic sessions for us to discuss what and how with the units of local self-government, but then to talk about the real problem, and somehow at which point the political option is appropriate. Both the solution to the problem and the more efficient functioning of local self-government units depends solely on political will and political agreement but on all participants in the process. And what I want to say here is, Croatia until it introduces a system of pay classes from up to the bottom or from bottom to up, we will have problems. The secretary can't have 30, 40, 50 percent more than the secretary of a minister. Someone can't have a salary supplement just because there's a formality in the system if we want in the health care system in the intensive care system, and there's nothing to do with patients at all, or let's say we go to the police, there's nothing to do with that cop on the ground, who's at risk of life, but only that the formation in that system has the same pay. So payment classes, the system of paying classes is something that this country simply needs and then we'll get to the same thing that we'll have to standard how many units of local self-government can have employees because unfortunately no matter what political option... has the same employment as this and that. And I'll end up with something, sometimes while in Croatia 114 municipalities were the so-called The communal unification system so you had one of the other things, I'll talk about it, the most I know about it, the Community of the City of Zagreb. So the City of Zagreb which was 10 municipalities and 4 surrounding municipalities: Samobor, Zaprešić, Velika Gorica and Sesvete also developed a common municipal system because the logical thing and far cheaper that several units of local self-government jointly develop communal infrastructure because it will be far cheaper for them, because as soon as you have more consumers on that master system that costs the most then that system turns out to be cheaper. So colleagues and colleagues, as you can see in one small change of technical law, we have talked so much today, but unburdened by the fact that we have to vote for such or such a decision, but I say just for the sake of our conscience... how we all talked here when the Law on the financing of local self-government units was, when we took billions and 800 million kuna from the local self-government units in our pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120683	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas that are exactly 12. ... You're going to answer every one of them, aren't you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120684	Mr. Schucker, about the pay or pay grade 100% I agree. About pay and pay grade 100% I agree. The solution is you know what, decentralisation like '74. years, not begging the commissioners as you mentioned that the journey of Zagreb to Croatian water, Croatian road or, for example, to the Ministry of Economy. When we talk about a territorial structure, territorial rationalization has not been implemented, why, because we haven't touched the bottom. When that happens, maybe she will, too. I mentioned the town of Vodnjan case before. I personally believe that local self-government Vodnjan must exist in the future. In 2009, they had 46 employees, I guess they're over 50 today, but only in that self-rule. In Vodnjan in '92. There were two employees in the local committee for years. At that time, factories, zones, roads were built, not that it had not been invested since '92. For years both in camp and in... infrastructure and in street editing, absolutely yes. But how many of those 48 or 50 people cost? at an annual level with an administrative cost that's about 10 million kuna times 10 years it's 100 million kuna. With 100 million kuna, you can build one hall, one kindergarten, one pool, one school, all together, settle housing issues. If I keep in mind that only in Istria are 500 employees unnecessary in local self-government, state administration, municipal enterprises, in the state, let's say 10,000, that's about a billion and 200 million kuna, in 10 years, 12 billion kuna. If one job is 30000 euros, that's 53,000 jobs. We've lost so many in the last four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120685	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120686	Thank you very much, colleague Cain. However, I was seven years head of a ministry that lays down that part of the budget for local self-government units. To be honest, here I have been here for 4 years an opposition representative, and before that, while I was also an opposition representative and a minister, I have never seen that there has been some big debate about that position at the Ministry of Finance, that assistance to local self-government units where this assistance was determined on the basis of truly minimum income conditions, where it has been estimated that these units without this help simply cannot function. If we were to discuss the budget a little more carefully, we would pay a little more attention to the debate on the financial plans of extra- budget users. No one ever discusses them, because it is impossible for us, the 150 of us here as many as we have, to say something about how and how 2 billion and 600 million dollars of Croatian water industry is spent. But why? We all want to be great public finances experts and talk about the global budget, touched on a small problem. And where we can really talk, because 2 billion and 600 aren't small money. Or my colleague Skurić is always talking about it, which is what we have decided to transfer part of the authority from the Croatian roads to the county roads etc. However, look at the little plan of the Croatian roads do you see and is this accompanied by adequate and financial means? It's not. So you have a series of segments in the budget and financial plans that we unfortunately don't discuss here, but it's a great opportunity to see in what phase we're in centralised, i.e. Centralization and the phase of our unit of local self-government regarding money. I repeat my colleagues and colleagues, only Croatia's 2 billion and 600 that we citizens pay daily through that communal fee for housing and such and such spaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120687	Replica, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, we agree on one important thing, which is that you pointed out both yourself and me, and just because you've been at the head of the Ministry of Finance for many years it's the ministry that knows the blood count of all of us, the unit of local self-government. And what I agree with you, which is that the cause of sustainability and municipalities and units is sources of funding compared to its fiscal capacity. Let's be realistic. And this merger and deleveraging only because you go to someone who will be able to finance you, pay you, the content and the services that we have to do to our citizens. Only by that. And that's where we agree. But we do not agree in that part how this part, sources of funding, or the justification of fiscal capacities, solves it. Then it wouldn't have happened if you'd been at the Ministry of Finance for eight years and been in power for over 16 years, that we have what I said 10 times the difference between that least municipality or city when we talk about fiscal capacity we're talking about original budget revenues per capita 10 times the difference. So someone has 500 kuna, and someone today has 8,000, 9,000 kuna per capita. Whether these are the same opportunities for the development of certain municipalities was the mayor, the mayor in that part. I don't think so. But the biggest tragedy is that today, and a lot of your rule did not allow it to be supported by resolution ministries, above all there was the Ministry of Regional Development at this moment and EU funds and previous ministries of the sea, forests, sky and countries that we said were to be given to those who needed it. Unfortunately, it was given to those to whom I basically said that I would be ashamed as the mayor, the mayor that I have 60 million kuna budgets, to some 9, 10,000 inhabitants, to give me someone to fund for several million kunas. I don't need it from my end. I can finance my budget. At the same time someone who has Two, three million kunas on some 3 to 4 thousand inhabitants are talking about the part that he has to make his own kindergarten. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] That's what's been going on. And the money was transferred to a lot of levels when it didn't have to, that's the problem. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120689	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120690	Kola Skurić, look today at the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and look at this budget in 2008 or 2009 and here you will get an answer to all these questions, but in a positive context. Then, through the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development, there is a colleague from the island part, how much has been invested in the Croatian islands alone. Also, how many kindergartens per unit of local self-government were made. But you know what the biggest problem is? I won't mention one of the municipalities. When I was telling them, well, how are you going to finance that kindergarten? So they have a kindergarten made for them, and they are unable to finance it afterwards. That is why I am a colleague, Skvaric said, so it was once the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, which should now be units of local self-government aimed at using funds for and European funds for regional equality. Without these funds, we, if we are not going to secure these funds in the state budget, are having a very difficult time talking about it. That is why income tax remains the tax of units of local self-government because it is paid by citizens and the logical thing is to get those money back. And they basically go back to local self-government units, you leave that part for the Alignment Fund. In the past, income tax return has also been made to units of special state concern. That was over 320 units of local self-government. Today, many units are in trouble because they cannot return that income tax and many are in a lot of trouble. So there's what the central state can do. But if we want to talk about giving something, then a fund must be set up at the state level, from which, by some criteria, this House will be given money based on income capacity, but not by someone to think about, and next year, it will change that law and the community will enter some kind of programme and it cannot finance it. So, if you're also bringing in certain funds, you have to have continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120691	Replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, with most of your debate, with most of your debate, I agree. We often talked about it, and I answered the line actually because you asked the question which model to apply that local leaders should not scratch on the door of various civil servants or officials in the centralized state. So what model is applied in fiscal policy, decentralisation fiscal towards local self-government, so that policy does not have the most important influence on it, which is now the case? So the only model, for many years I've been in local self-government and I've been discussing it for many years, is that the only model is actually to calculate how much in which part of Croatia costs that minimum standard per capita by respecting the diversity of the desire to preserve life in those parts of Croatia and to calculate it to see how fiscal capacity such local self-government is. After it is known precisely that the difference to that minimum standard will be returned to municipalities from the state budget. Then the mayors of municipalities, municipal councils, mayors could very easily plan what to do, know exactly what means they have, and not always go into something unpredictable and something that can go in a completely different direction than you just said in response to another replica. So local self-government has somehow been this last four years as if it were a state enemy. It was all about her. It's all her fault. At the same time, it has been centralised in the country and the number of employees has increased, as is the case in Croatian waters where they are seen in budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120693	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120694	Dear counterpart Hrg here we agree entirely only you obviously skipped that part of the debate when I was talking about key expenditure items of local self-government units. So there must be equality. Because someone can't have just because I get the circumstances found himself in a town of 40, 50, or 100% more pay than someone in a small town. And the logical thing is that any more perspective can get out of that little town. So we have to define that pay policy, we have to set those minimum standards, and then it can be done through some fund or something, but by clear criteria. But then it can't be changed by law to pass the law today and to apply it in 10 days, to change it. Then the law cannot be changed practically for at least a year and a half, two days before it begins to apply the criteria. Because I repeat, there's too much imbalance in development. Take, say, two cities that used to be the actual industrial concept of the Republic of Croatia. One is Sisak, who today of his 25 thousand jobs has several thousand and take the city of the hero Vukovar who was destroyed in the war. And it's not clear to me that we haven't been able to rebuild anything else from that tire factory that some international big company didn't come in there and do something. However, you in one city and another have a problem and wages and communal development and a logical thing if a young expert is there that he will go to Zagreb or somewhere else where he will have a better salary because there he simply does not see the perspective. But then there's no one left to title a project that should bring prosperity. But you actually touched the right subject, and that's how to create some kind of minimum for everyone and then whoever's capable of competing and who's going to come to invest with him and have his citizens a greater communal standard than usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120695	New replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Shuker, in Podravina, we have a beautiful saying that says, "Just get us some help!" But find help in this way to take away a billion and 800 million kunas and you live on. We will add and expand and say in Podravina where, based on that regulation on hydrocarbon exploitation, we have been taken almost 40% of our income, while being raised from the state by 167. Don't help us that way. Well, even this law that's now been passed a month, two before the election isn't much of a help I think is responsible for either. But there won't be much interest either. Because certain exaggerations have happened and in many areas some things may have gone and settled, and then perhaps they have taken their hand. But let's let it go now. But if we've already been taken and it's mostly rural areas, then it's unacceptable under these circumstances that the strategic branch of agriculture that's characteristic, which is important for those areas that it's so collapsed. The branch of which is living and in which was the uncertainty and survival of the Croatian village, and we see which branches it is reduced to today. And it certainly does not contribute to the even development of our beautiful, and of course neither the existence of the village nor the extreme and the foundation of that security aspect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120697	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Milinkovic's actually you touched one piece in the fact that the rules regarding the financing of the unit of local self-government cannot be brought to the neck. This shall be at least a year when it is brought to its application. Therefore, if that change is adopted this year, then in the next financial year it shall not apply but shall apply only for the simple reason that those who use and receive these funds may prepare for it. However, you have touched on one other issue that is very little to talk about in Croatia and is generally spoken only when it requires political points, which are rents, concessions and damages. Many citizens who live either by a waste dump or as you have oil and gas wells there are in a certain way tightened against other citizens so that they can deal with both activity and something. And the value of their properties is far less. On the other hand, those who talk about the economy should be competitive say it should not be paid a high price, that it will be uncompetitive, however, some of those citizens must be compensated. Look, a new Zagreb Airport is now being built, and none of the concessionaries asked if it would give any damage to the people on the corridor, who often have logs flying from houses, who can't build in some areas at the end and due to air pollution. So nobody's talking about that rent and it hurts someone that a couple of thousands of big-ass people suffers from it. And we can list a number of other things, so that's some kind of segment for funding units of local self-government that can be an advantage for the development of communal standard and raising standards in pre-school and primary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120699	A new replica of the esteemed Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120700	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, I agree with your debate in most of the work, but given that here in our debates there were also the thesis for abolishing the municipality, there are too many municipalities, etc. I'd say one other thing to even the smallest community if she's independent, if there's the possibility of self-financing that she's welcome. Because the smallest municipality is practically at the service of its citizens and is still the only one who cares about its citizens from those infrastructure problems to social problems. I'm saying this for the reason that my community is in line with the youngest municipalities, so since 2000, but while it was, I'm going to tell the local board of the town of Vodnjan that my colleague Cain has been always talking about, she's been completely abandoned. And I would say that in these fifteen years, it has reached the fifth category of development, so 125% above the average of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it's good to have that smallest municipality if it can be financed standing. On the other hand, it is absolutely good that those municipalities that cannot stand on their own to join one another, but it must be with clearly expressed interrelationships, with powers and the will of citizens. And then as such united surely I can prosper. And what's been developing here is that the units of local self-government are the sites of human arrests, and I don't know the Latifundi and some mayoral mayor, I don't think it stands because every mayor, the mayor is responsible to his people, his people, his citizens, and surely the interests of citizens are in first place, and he's doing everything in that sense. So, like this, I don't think they're good. And the state, first of all, should help all these municipalities that can't take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120701	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120702	Comrade Damian, in your first part of the debate, you basically said what I was saying in the debate. I even mentioned the suburban municipalities around the City of Rijeka and I could say Vodnjan, mention you. So where local leaders know what they want are far better developed than their neighboring edges of big cities. So, I think that's where we totally agree. But I'm still staying with this that the pay grade system must be either up or up. And the other thing, depending on the budget, because the budget is, in principle, made by one side of the budget, so these are the ones that develop the conditions to create new jobs, and the other are the consumers of the budget, but quality consumers. Accordingly, the number of employees is determined accordingly. So according to some criteria. I didn't accuse anyone in one way or another, but if we were to follow those criteria, we'd see that they found everything and everything. But I repeat, the time has come for a top young economist and a lawyer at the Ministry of Finance to have 50% less salary than someone with full respect who doesn't have nearly that much knowledge in some local self-government unit. It's something that I just think we all have to fight for, not to reduce these, but to make the conditions that these can be increased. But this difference is simply, you have a tax administration in one building, and the Department of Construction or Economy's office, these are the state offices, and now people of the same professional training, same age as interns, these are incredibly large differences and you know it well. And I think it's something to talk about here in public because it just can't stay. All of that basically costs all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120703	Replica Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120704	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you in fact that the issue of the survival of small municipalities lies in the source of funding. And unless they're given a quality source of funding, of course they won't be able to survive. The fact is that a large number of small municipalities actually justified their existence precisely thanks to the people who led them and who knew how to actually get the funds and how to actually develop these small municipalities. I am convinced that these small municipalities remained attached to the margins of large cities, so that we wouldn't be half as small, so that today they would have half as much infrastructure as they have. I'm saying it from experience, specifically from Dubrovnik-Neretva County where I know some small municipalities that were once on the edge of some big cities, just didn't have a basic infrastructure. Today these are significantly developed municipalities that also have good predisposition for economic development and with new economic areas etc. It is also clear that we need to provide them with a stable long-term source of funding. I am sad because the Kukuriku coalition has not reached its announcements that it will decentralisation Croatia and will increase funds to local self-government units. They said that out of 10 kunas, how much tax revenue 9 kuna goes about and today goes to the state budget and 1 kuna remains for local self-government and regional self-government units. They said we'd increase it to 2 kuna. This would mean an almost 100% increase in funds for local self-government units. But it happened exactly the opposite. Instead of increasing their funds, they reduced their funding by a billion and 800 million kuna, making it more difficult for local self - government units to function. That's something, first of all, is the constitutional right to organise through units of local self-government and regional self-government. And secondly, of course, they need to be provided with financial resources of quality so that they can continue to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120705	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120706	Kola Matušić, when you do not implement structural reforms and you do not have the result of these structural reforms of consolidation of the expenditure side of the budget, you must take someone. And who will you take? You take someone who simply can't do anything and these are local self-government units. And then the leaders of the local self-government units remain in a position to get in a variety of ways to patch up the budgets regarding preschool and primary school age, but what's very important is that you mention what to say, we can't talk in one way or another about municipalities. A bunch of these municipalities, this pile is a bit of a cartoon expression, if their citizens weren't founded today, they wouldn't have any water, no sewers, and many wouldn't have any gas. The fact that their chiefs were able or were able to draw money from a concessionary or to collect money with quality projects in Croatian waters or elsewhere is their right because when you look at the neighboring part of the city that is on the periphery of... mayors etc. Then you'll see it's not like that. Thus, when we talk about municipalities, everyone forgets how and what happened in '93 and how these municipalities were founded, and they didn't grow that much. I think that we need to think a lot more about how to bring these unit leaders down to the local self-government so that citizens know what they need to be provided for, and that they know what they need to be provided by the state and that we don't push there between the county that's present maybe in the big city and then there's no longer one present anywhere, and then many of the situations will be much clearer and then the finger of criticism and arrow criticism will be referred to where it should go, and not usually as it goes to the wrong place.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120707	Replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120708	Every time a law is passed, or when it comes to cities, municipalities and counties, I feel like I'm in a big cage where there's a lot of parrots who've learned just a few words and keep repeating it. Too many cities, too many municipalities, local sheriffs, something's going on, something's not working, nothing's doing, they need to be determined how many employees they're going to have, they need to determine this, they need to be determined. In my opinion, it's all puzzling, reckless and devastating for the state and you just said one important thing in your debate. So you mentioned the funds being poured in here in... Where were these funds created? You mentioned the removal of the status of mountain-mountan area for cities, the municipality of Gorsko Kotar, how much income is made in the area of the same Gorski Kotar ends here in Zagreb, which has a million inhabitants, 18% cut and enough capacity in the economy to continue to develop, and we have municipalities and cities, I am telling you that only the cost that Minister Zmajlović would spend on renting that space when that money would be passed on to Kravna Gora or Mrkoplj in Gorski Kotar so that the municipality or that town could open up and keep several families in its space, only with those funds. So we never thought about it in a way that those municipalities that don't have enough resources to retain the income they make. All the laws that have been passed, especially these lately, these same units of local self-government because they are in a difficult situation in this situation even harder because they are being taken away from them. Just by taking down the mountain-mountan status on this, I've often talked here about Gorski Kotar lost 57 million kuna. The state of nothing, Gorski Kotar... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120709	... on the replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120710	Kola Klaric has no local sheriffs, there are successful and unsuccessful and responsible and irresponsible people and nothing else. However, when you started talking about certain means, how much was spent on monetization or how it wasn't already called highways? How much money was spent on privatizing HPB? After four years, where are we? Zero point. And what is the biggest problem of HAC was taken 40 limes, given to Croatian roads and HZ. These 20 June funds that were given to the Croatian roads were supposed to end up in the field of units of local self-government because in the area of units of local self-government, these roads were created as parallel roads to highways, when highways were made, so when you take these billions and 800 that were taken in the Law on the Change of the funding of local self-government units when you add these funds, you will see. You can think that instead of... what guarantee or... what is called that firm that guarantee of five million euros that those funds were rerouted to Gorski Kotar after that terrible icy rain that cut it. With those 40 million kunas, there could have been practically an intervention in a month a lot to do, so unfortunately that birch forest when we go to the river wouldn't look what it looks like today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120711	Replica, respected Nada Murganic. You haven't answered? Okay. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Shuker, I absolutely agree with you that we need to introduce uniform payment classes and for employees in local self-government units just to avoid situations like this that you have discussed that the mayor's secretaries have a higher salary than the secretary of a minister. But what I wanted to draw attention to is that this kind of territorial structure is a unit of local self-government gives us one possibility, so it definitely has its own bad side but there are also good ones, and that micro management is exactly what many colleagues and colleagues have been talking about before me. So with a capable chief or chief... and mayor of that unit of local self-government has a very good chance of prospering and there is no, you're talking about some I would dare say to maybe urban conglomerations, so the units of local self-government to municipalities that bind to some other more successful ones and so, however, there are no geographical rules. You have an example of a municipality that would say in a very passive area and surrounded by all sides of one city and municipalities that are also in a very difficult economic and demographic situation, but thanks to a capable and smart chief, they have managed to profile themselves, they have withdrawn considerable funds from European funds and have managed to develop the municipality's infrastructure so much that even from a neighboring city people move into the municipality. So there are definitely good sides to this system. But I also agree with you that there is a broad debate but also a political debate on what the future is, at all, a unit of local self-government, or local self-government, regional or regional government in Croatia and in what form, in which territorial structure, in what way. It also means clearly defined powers and competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120713	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic is extremely pleased that we are in principle fully in agreement with the debate. The only question now is why we are unable to implement it politically. Because with frequent bids, we generally put our citizens in doubt because very often when someone needs someone, then there are too many units of local self-government and then when they see that it would not be very political on the ground, no, I didn't say that. I think that is why, in some future, several issues concerning local self-government need to open up thematic sessions in this House so that everyone has the right to say what they think and that they no longer have the right when someone proposes the Law on the Change of Local Self-Government Units to think only in such a way, although it is only in the heart against it because it is proposed by his political option. Because we are ultimately members of a political party, but first of all we need to represent the interests of the people who chose us. And then there's a time when a minister who doesn't see things well say that it won't be good because now it's definitely. And if you're talking about Slavonia, then you can't skip any tax return on income, has thrown many cities and municipalities in Slavonia on their knees. It's a fact, I know you can't say it, but it's a fact. But that's why we all have to think that this can't just happen because we haven't found the right substitution for those funds that PPDS once had. Is that some kind of development coefficient of this, that, obviously, isn't enough. But when we talk about it, there must be no politics. And that's what's crucial where responsibility is first of all on us who are in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120715	New replica, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you spoke of a large number of small municipalities with small budgets as successful examples. I absolutely agree with that thesis. And we all, no matter what county we come from, have examples around us as much as you want. So on the fingers of practically one hand in each county you have "failing", under the authority of the municipality. On the other hand, you mentioned changing income tax and amending the laws on mountain-mounted areas. How difficult the situation is to tell the most, i.e. the fact that he is a colleague of Skvarić, it seems to me that in amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas he was talking about his example, about his problems. And also on the current morning of the Vice-President of the Honored House, counterpart Batinic, although they mean the position is indeed in the units of local self-government, at least in the majority, the situation has become unsustainable. So we just won't be able to function this way for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120717	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120718	A fellow Box, the Law amending the laws on mountainous and mountainous areas in principle brought simply people from the continental part to start thinking not with their hearts but with their heads. To simply see that their areas will remain damaged and do not want to damage both areas of the mountainous and mountainous area. But someone because they've come up with the wrong evaluations and the law reviews, they've simply brought people to think and think in such a way. So if we won't think and think about how to raise these areas that were in the PPDS area and mountainous areas we'll simply get 10 cities in which 95% of the population of the Republic of Croatia will be printed. At the same time, we will have to provide infrastructure in those edges and it will be simply too expensive for any unit of local self-government to maintain. And that's a fact to say. So we just have to think about how to give these units money so people realize that they can live there, they can pay taxes there and then it's a normal thing that you can develop and... areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without it, with such a law, amending the laws on mountainous and mountainous areas, with amending the law on the financing of units of local self-government where only by the move of feathers you take some one billion 800 million kunas. But worst of all, take those who need it most. And these are the means to measure the success of a mayor and mayor's work. So some kind of municipal infrastructure and preschool and school age and cultural arts societies, fire companies and sports societies. You have to give them because if you don't give them the rest of you will be without the active life of the community in your community.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120719	Replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120720	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, when I talk about this law where I'm not going to waste a lot of words, it's also so populist and as one of my colleagues said, I don't think he's going to get any results, so this law we talked about today. However, in your presentation, you have touched very small municipalities, small towns and mosses, all those who have either been or are now in the leading positions of cities and municipalities and know best how and how cities and especially municipalities have developed. If it hadn't been for this kind of structure of the local self-government unit, especially the municipalities would never have evolved at this level like today. I am truly surprised that many, or even some here from the ministries of these existing and some of the people say that the municipalities should be abolished. Well, gentlemen, if it were done, I'd ask you how and how these same municipalities would develop. When you attach it to a town or not to talk about county now. I will only mention my city, the town of Pleternica in Požega-Slavon County, which has 8% of its own income in the budget, i.e. the original budget of its city. So I ask you, and those who came could see how and how this city developed. So do we have to destroy such a city tomorrow? But the biggest problem is that this current government, with its laws, is burdening cities and municipalities and thus destroying them. These billions and 800 million kunas she has taken from cities and municipalities are damages that do with just such units of local self-government instead of being helped in a different way. Because to help these cities, or municipalities, would have far greater security than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120721	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120722	That fellow Lucic, you with full right can speak what it means when the leaders of a unit of local self-government have a vision and know what you can do. We can also take the town of Virovitica. Pandan Pleternica, too. The rise was tremendously high for the simple reason that people at some point recognized the need to build an economic zone. Would all these projects have you if you hadn't knocked on various doors and tried to do it? No, you wouldn't. Therefore, simply there are funds, there are funds, but perhaps as was once the Ministry of Regional Development in a direct way should be directed towards local self-government units. Because many local self-government units can't hire a lawyer or an economist or a building engineer who would do it all together. But that's why the Regional Development Ministry needs to help them. But we can list a number of units of local self-government that recognized their advantages that those who were before them viewed as flaws, and they turned the defects into an advantage and made a boom. People live there, people work no matter how many major factories are destroyed in some cities. But if you find some kind of substitution, you can exist and you can function. And if you are also using the resources available to you, I repeat, perhaps in the future we also have a little more discussion of the financial plans outside of the budget users. Because when you take both HZZO and Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests and Croatian Roads, you will reach some 35, 40 billion that are very interesting and can very much help local self-government units. Only 20% of that can do wonders in the infrastructure units of local self-government of weaker income capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120723	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Shuker, this law has been prepared by a series of other laws that fiscal centralization has taken place and that have taken place through the tax system, i.e. Through VAT. 428 municipalities remained for more than 10% of income tax revenue, remained cut off for 350 million kunas of original income. And so they're forced to be blocked today by the IRS with new orders that they can't fulfil, tax return orders that also speak of that all that is happening today in this law has been prepared through a number of other laws. That the small municipalities that had their function, who had done it in full purpose and good intentions with water lines, sewers, roads, roads today are no longer fiscally capable because this government was filling them with the withdrawal of their respective money with a budget or drawing the budget out of its incompetence so... from local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 20% of the original funds of each local self-government budget can be used for employees. Most in small local units are volunteers, volunteers who contribute to the development of society even without volunteering. You need to be shut down, those no longer need to be put out. The rural space is thus devastated, and this new law shows that it needs to be completely ignored, that it no longer needs to exist. It's a reward from this authority at the end of this House's term. With a law like this I believe it won't achieve anything, because none of these 428 want to unite. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120725	Replication response, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120726	A colleague, Djakic, units of local self-government, primarily from areas of special state concern and from hill-mounted areas, must have a clear position in the state budget and clear criteria for receiving money. It cannot happen that someone overnight says that what has been done so far by the state and what has been regulated by a clear provision in the Law on the implementation of the state budget, which is for the return of income tax on citizens from the PPDS and mountainous areas, is being made out of the state budget. It simply transferred to local self-government units with an invisible amount of funds. You said they'd be here, they'd be there, it'd be like this, it'd be like that. But here it is. Now we've got it. Why was he late for income tax returns? So never did income tax return this late and in far more difficult times in the Republic of Croatia because they were aware that many units of local self-government would be blocked. They thought they'd cover it, you saw that some local self-government units got some money now by changing the budget we had the other day at the debate. However, those funds will not be sufficient for them. And this is just another clear sign, that if we want to help these units, if we want to help people stay in these areas that living must be provided in the state budget, which must be transferred by clear criteria and laws relating to the financing of local self-government units, they can't get in before one year of starting for a simple reason that everyone can be prepared, that they can be well analysed and see whether the real effects of this law will be like this or like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120727	The closing word of the Secretary of the Administration of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. As Mr. Shuker said, there was a so-called. free topics and it is very easy to discuss whether we have a lot of municipalities in Croatia, a lot of counties etc. etc. This is one law that makes it easier for those who want to connect, and for those who don't want to connect, it doesn't make it difficult, and that's all you have to say about this law. If no merger is carried out, then this law will do no harm. Therefore, all the fears of populism etc. It's unnecessary. And if there is a merger of certain municipalities, then it is a sign that we have made it easier for citizens to carry out the will as soon as possible so that they can work normally in a new unit of local self-government and that's all I needed to say about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120729	We have a replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it is not the will of the citizens that is done, but of your will, the will of this government that has imposed such criteria that units can no longer function. And that's why the commissioners are thinking and presenting to their citizens that you've put them in an inability to function further by blocking their accounts and taking off their accounts what they didn't even income because you've cut their income by over 10% just for income tax positions, let alone those of special state care. You prepared everything to force them to no longer function on their own, and in that bush lies a rabbit. It's easy to explain that he's good, I'd say he's good enough to have needs but there was no need. These units of local self-government with 500 000 kuna budgets in '93. The years when they were formed came to 5, 6, 7 to 10 million kunas of budget and functioned normally until you killed them with your tax press.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120731	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120732	I believe that the Croatian Parliament held a very detailed debate about all the laws concerning the distribution of tax funds, and then since the Ministry of Administration was not a proposing I did not participate in them but I believe that the debate was detailed, but I am from what you said concluded something else. So all those who are criticising us that we have done nothing about the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia are actually wrong because you have just explained that this is a very systematic one that is actually the last step to this, therefore very systematic. ... So I'm pretty sure it's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe, therefore, as I have said, I call upon the MPs to support this law and we will see how the time moves on what its effects will be and whether those who say they will be right or not will be right or those who say they will be good will be right. I believed that these others would be right, but here's so much for the debate that was basically about the text of the law, and more of this free topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120733	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120734	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 919. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of the law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. at least 76 in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the votes are 87 votes in favour, 24 abstentions and 4 votes against P.Z. law. No. 919 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120735	We move to - Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Administration, the Honorable Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120736	This proposal also proposes to establish the Immunological Institute in the list of legal persons of particular national interest. The Immunological Institute was established by the Immunological Institute Regulation, which was published in the National Journal of the European Union No. 91/15 as a public institution for the exercise of activities in the field of health, which is of strategic and general economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. And how, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict, the interest is Article 14(3). The Croatian Parliament is authorised to adopt a Decision on the list of legal persons of special state interest, so we propose to add the Immunological Institute of Zagreb to the list under 178. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120737	A brief debate led to a replication. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120738	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, can you tell me exactly when you've learned it and for what reasons you've declared the Immunological Institute a legal person of particular state interest? Which was a crucial moment for you to conclude that it was a company of particular national interest and based on what. That company has been there for 50 years and you're the company, your government has been publishing a tender for the sale of the company. As at the same time it is possible that the company that is of particular national interest is sold and placed on the list of companies of special state interest and this last day of the debate is called the Croatian Parliament. Please answer me when you have concluded that she is of particular national interest, whether today or two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120739	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120740	The proposal for a decision does not apply to the company but to the public institution of the Immunological Institute... The public institution, therefore the Immunological Institute is a public institution established by the government regulation of 20 August 2015, so if you were to answer your question literally then you could say as soon as we established it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So on August 20th, a public institution was established, and at the Parliament meeting immediately at the beginning of the autumn session, so at the first session after the establishment of a public institution, the Government sent a proposal to the Parliament to add it to the list of legal persons of special state interest, and if the Parliament adopts it, it will probably be, so tomorrow it will be the decision of the Croatian Parliament. Since this is about a decision taken under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, this is not a debate on the Immunological Institute itself. So this is one proposal from the Government to add a public institution to the list where all other public institutions are, but I allow it to be possible to open up a debate on the whole story about the Immunological Institute, but then I am not exactly the most suitable government associate who could reason with you because the Law on conflict of interest is in my jurisdiction, but everything else regarding the Immunological Institute is difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120741	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Zlatko Tušak will speak on behalf of the ORAH Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120742	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. It is true that the proposal for a decision to supplement the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest is only one technical matter. And I don't think there's going to be any of this dilemma tomorrow to supplement that decision, to get the Immunological Institute into the list of these companies. But shut up and don't talk about the Immunological Institute, and here on several occasions we were looking for a break, on several occasions we went out to Mark's Square and solidarity with the workers who protested and who asked to save the Immunological Institute I think it deserves attention and a few words to say about these workers and also about the companies. A colleague, Maric, said 50 years of company tradition. I'm sorry he's not here now, not for 50 years, 120 years of company tradition because the Immunological Institute was still founded in 1983 as the Royal Authority for the Goddess Vaccine. So tradition certainly exists. What should be said in particular is that the agony of the Immunological Institute for two years I ask myself a question and to all of us why it took this agony of the Immunological Institute to last 2 years. Who was in the interest of who? Whose fingers were involved that the issue of the Immunological Institute couldn't have been solved long ago? I am personally pleased that the government finally made a decision and finally that the Immunological Institute belonged there to what the workers required, that this company was not privatized by a special union headed by Lydia Jagarinec, a series of statements, carried out and practically in the finality their efforts were and succeeded. But why it took two years to know and by some data that I saw that for example just to say that one of the products that is the Immunological Institute is the snake antidote. It is produced only in Croatia and France. In France the production of this serum costs 3800 kuna, and here in Croatia in the Immunological Institute costs 200 kuna, 19 times cheaper. Can we pull a message out of this? Well, it wanted to benefit from an import lobby, because as an Immunologically, it was a very good and fertile soil in which some could have made a very good profit and realized not to tell about other vaccines that he had the right to immunologically, that products that were very well known and recognized in the world. And what is especially to be pointed out now that HALMED's permission has also been withdrawn regarding the production of blood derivatives was not an objection to the product. The product was still high-quality and valid, already an observation of outdated technology. It is good that after that decision was annulled, it is also good that those who pushed the Immunological Institute at the end of 2013 to end up in bankruptcy, which is also the annulled decision of the already Commercial Court that opened up the bankruptcy and what this agony was in some way being pushed through. And what is the essence of the Immunological Institute? Why am I saying this? That's why they must have been behind it, someone's hands, who wanted to destroy the Immunological Institute. And the structure of the then core capital of the Immunological Institute, which was 85.6 million kuna, moved so that 44% had the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and DUDI had 29% and that part was represented by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Republic of Croatia at 14 and a half percent. The other owners who were 26% had no one more than 10%. Finally, this year the recapitalisation with another approximately 25 million 10.5. A binding offer has been announced and everything that has happened in this agony of the Immunological Institute is likely to remain a historical story that should not be done. Because if there were any hearing the Immunological Institute could have been in that agony a long time ago, not two years ago, and finally the government realized that the Immunological Institute was still needed in Croatia, that this is the value to be preserved. And in the end, I have to say, personally, that as 5 minutes to 12, we avoid bankruptcy, so 5 minutes to 12, we also make this decision to include the Immunological Institute in the list of legal persons of special state interest. And at first, as I said, it's a technical part, but I still wanted to say a few words about this agony of the Immunological Institute and thank all the tenacious workers who fought and preserved that office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120743	We've got two lines reported. First, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120744	Dear fellow Tušak, one sentence from your debate was why did it take 2 years for the government to do what we were looking for at the very beginning of the agony of the Immunological Institute? When an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament was called in an unconstitutional period, we said, more speakers talked about, that many of the things the government is now introducing, the moves it is making, are actually a pre-election campaign. It's incomprehensible to me that many, I don't say, have understood what this is about, how that the Immunological Institute was not important two years ago, it wasn't of state interest, it was of particular interest and now it is. Why was privatisation the best solution then, and today it's not? Two years ago, I was among those or even the first to ask for an end to the session because of the Immunological Institute. The union was doing a fantastic thing, that's what it turned out to be. He succeeded in his intentions, unfortunately failed to prevent the damage caused by the Immunological Institute. And the damage is huge. It will take a year, two or more years to compensate for the damage done only because Mr Milanovic did not care about the companies or Croatian interests at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120745	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120746	Thank you, Vice President. You asked your colleague Vuksic why it took two years? You marked it in your replica to me that the Immunological Institute was a very important company, and why wasn't it important for the government of the Republic of Croatia for two years? It was important for some to end up in bankruptcy and disappear. Because they've seen quite a benefit in this. And that's why this tape has been pulling for two years. If it hadn't probably been for that, the Immunological Institute with all its potentials, its products and everything it does would have been saved long ago. But, well, if they weren't resilient workers, if they hadn't protested, if we hadn't pointed out here in the Parliament the problem that the Immunological Institute should be saved is the question to end it. Probably those in the background were waiting for the Immunological Institute to fail and they had a very well-designed strategy to take over the business that could have made them a huge profit. And they had a bill in it. Here, that's why two years of agony lasted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120747	Another replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120748	Oh, thank you. Well, the Immunology Institute has been a company of special state interest for decades now, and it took this government alone years to figure it out. At this point there are major problems in the vaccine market, there has been a series of actually intervention imports of very expensive vaccine preparations that, you mentioned the vaccine against snake bite, but all the other vaccines that are obtained today from imports are more expensive than those produced by the Immunological Institute. There are already losses, so more than the HZZO pays for these imports are measured in tens of millions of kunas, and in the end it is again the burden of the Croatian state and Croatian taxpayers or Croatian HZZO insurance companies. Therefore, this amount is multiplely higher than the total necessary investments that were needed in general to fully capitalise and modernise. Therefore, this is only about so much neglect towards Croatian national interests, according to the interests of Croatian health care, that it is almost incredible. It's really amazing! These imported preparations are not entirely identical to those produced by Immunologically, the vaccination calendar must therefore be further modified and are already in the course of its modification which is actually causing a number of problems in already harmonised vaccination patterns and calendars of their implementation that have existed so far. Mostly such negligence and this kind of irresponsibility that existed according to the Immunology was an unrecorded case, and it was ultimately a threat to the health of Croatian citizens. And this is finally not the end of that story because there's really something that needs to be done with that immunological time that's coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120749	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120750	Thank you. Well, you know Đurović better as a doctor, you're familiar with certain things, and I don't know, but from what others have told me and from what I've read and I've seen I agree with you that this is not the end of the story with the Immunological One. But there is also information that at a certain point when and when the immunological office was withdrawn and when it couldn't, and he had a supply of certain preparations he couldn't place them, that some of them were using the situation and that at a much higher price, the Croatian Institute and the hospital had bought certain preparations. It was clearly at the expense of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because, at this expensive price from tax obligations, both the part and the drugs and the serums are paid, which clearly speaks of how negligence existed and how it was intended to be made with the Immunological Institute and to make someone very comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120751	Minister Bauk reported on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120752	Very short. Today, with this proposal for a decision, we are listing the Immunological Institute as a public institution established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation. Immunological Institute d.d. Zagreb as the company we're talking about is already listed in this decision under regular number 28. So just so we know it wouldn't be a mistake, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120753	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120754	We understand Mr. Minister what we're talking about today, but since we haven't had a chance in two years and we've asked a few times for someone from the government to explain to us why there's been chaos at the Immunological Institute, here's an opportunity on the last day of Parliament's work, or tomorrow's vote to tell us. However, you're responding to a high-speed telegraph, very short because you know we're right. We've been warning for two years about the destruction of the Immunological Institute. And now the assembly majority and we will raise our hands for it, I hope, or at least part of the opposition will raise hands for what we asked for two years ago. I've been two years late in one case, and in the other four years, in the other four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120755	Goran Maric will speak on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120756	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and a colleague. Mr. Minister, you said in the introduction that you are not the best talker on this topic of Immunological, I agree with you, I accept your position and I think that on behalf of the Government with you, except you should be the chef of this kitchen and that is the Minister of Economy Mr. Vrdoljak. He'd know a lot more about what was going on and why this was happening. But when you said that because of the change in organisational form or renaming from a company to a public institution that it was then placed on the list of legal persons, the Immunological Institute as a public institution because it changed, the activity determines whether something of the state interest or not, and not the organisational form. And here it's just a modified organisational form then it's not put on the list again but it's just changed form instead of the Immunological Office of the Commercial Society now turns out to have two It's not shut down. [[/Intruder: 'Cause he hasn't been shut down yet.]] And that's what we're discussing here, perhaps in the last hour of the debate of this House, and this is a debate about a legal person, a public institution of particular state interest. Let's imagine the family getting on the plane at the airport but one of the family members remained a passport so they had to go back and think if they were going to get on that plane at the last minute, they're getting on the last second, and at the last second they're asking one of the family members about the head of the family, and if we're going to change the Swiss to the euro, if we're going to buy an apartment, if we're going to take a loan and make a decision at that point. In such a way, he says it in a vivid manner. It's like 3.5 years didn't know what the Immunological Institute was interested in. And if it was known of his interest, why would he prepare the competition, prepare the competition for a long time, and announce a tender for the sale of the immune institution? The government was not thinking about the Immunological Institute, it was not thinking about what to do with Immunological because it was really of strategic interest and national interests of the Republic of Croatia, but rather about how to sell it to the individual, the target person, and the person to whom it had already been so much as gained in the donation of state-owned enterprises as if it were about the freer of Croatia. So it was shortly after a few years, so he had to prepare another company according to the same model that prepared and sold Croatia's insurance. But during the sale of Croatian insurance, potential customers could be affected, threatened and banned from competing but could not affect the Croatian people who appeared, organized through Vision Croat who prepared and offered to bid. HANFA confirmed that it was a legal gathering of partial roles for the majority company Vision Croatica. The State Office for State Property Management has made it clear and unambiguous that the only company that has submitted and the company that has submitted the offer meets all the conditions of the tender and has recommended that the Government take the decision of Vision Croatica. And then the government doesn't make a decision, it doesn't accept Vision Croat. What changed so that someone who met the conditions of the competition would not take his decision? Well, he didn't sign up for whoever they were setting it up for, and someone showed up who'd smudged the cook's accounts. There were a lot of governments that acted inappropriately against Immunologically, but none of them abolished the permit, and then made a decision to abolish the abolished permit. Why did the government cancel the competition later? It was a punishment, a clear and public punishment for those who opposed their intentions, who prevented their intention or prepared occult work. Vision Croatica has been punished, 50 members of Vision Croatica have been punished, and the Croatian Association of Medical Doctors who supported such a project has been punished, the employees of the Immunological One have been punished, all those who supported the Vision Croatica project have been punished. The government turned the other way and told us a more important individual than the Croatian people, and if they won't, they won't either. And then here's whatever the last day is, but in that honesty, she made a good decision. But why didn't she make that good decision before the contest, she could have done all this before the contest and needed as many other governments before her, but she didn't. It didn't even have to change the organisational shape at all. And it was just looking for a model how to find a way and explain why no decision or offer of Vision Croatica was made. But there were so many hypocrites according to the Immunological, so much inconsistency, so much dishonesty that they even got into a situation that they could end up in bankruptcy that there was no amendment. The amendment was submitted by the Government to the law, i.e. to amend the law, because two days earlier, I had warned that there would be bankruptcy due to wage default, and the government had previously passed and proposed to this House and a bill of bankruptcy passed in the final provisions to enter into force on 1.9. and then they had to extend that deadline subsequently due to the Immunological Institute because the Immunological Institute would have ended up in bankruptcy due to three unpaid salaries. However, everything was only ready for revenge because several strategic targeted sales of companies, the most important companies in Croatia, failed. It worked with Croatia's security, I hope only temporarily. We still need to believe in the rule of law and that the powerpower will cancel such one sale and illegal privatisation as it did in the case of Croatia's insurance. But this proposal to reorganize, change, transform into a public institution, an Immunological Institute as a law firm, as a company of commerce, and that it was put on the list and should not be thanked to anyone, to us, to the government, or to the Parliament. All of this was done by Vision Croatic and the Croatian people with pressures and thanks to the workers of the Immunological Institute to exert so much pressure that this must be done. And if it hadn't been for that kind of pressure, they wouldn't have done that to me. That is why HDZ, of course, will accept this motion for a decision, but this time we thank Vision Croata, all the members, thanking the employees of the Immunological One who strike the pressure and if not for this pressure there would never be such decisions and there would be no hope for the Immunological Institute. And while we were generally hostile to Immunological, Immunologically shown ourselves to the Croatian people very friendly. Let's just remember the war and the role of the Immunological Institute, and that's how we repay it. Immunologically important for Croatian society, what is most important for the human organism? Blood, the most important substance. It is as important for Croatia as blood is for human life and for the human organism. And that is why I hope that everything that has happened with the Immunological Institute will be forgotten, all the relationship with him and will finally be treated as they deserve and how important they are for society both for Croatia and for the future. But the Immunology Institute is just one example of how this government acted in its mandate. But that mandate is also welcome. Let it be seen how it is possible that there are huge deviations made from the promised, let it remain permanently written. And that they gave us a phenomenal experience that tells us how to manage a state disciplined, consistent and persistently wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120757	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120758	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maric, precisely on the issue of the Immunological Institute, can actually see all the character, not to say the misery of this authority, these four-year authorities, the mandate of this one. You put all the elements about, before this Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest, which includes, of course, the Immunological Institute. And of course we'll be there for that, too. However, you have also asked why after 3.5 years or 4 years only now. Why was Visioni Croatica not allowed to properly meet all the conditions in the contest to buy Immunologically, to save Immunologically, to actually in Visiona Croatica, and you assumed the Croatian people which is and precisely given the number of those who signed in. Now, I'm interested in Mr. Maric, who is he who is either in charge of the Croatian Government or in his debt and who is this man of ties in the Croatian Government, is it the Minister of Economy or who else, who has affected exactly this long that we Parliamentarians have been fighting together with the Croatian people and workers of the Immunological and after the difficult and bitter battle, would be said here in public for a pay phone from Vuksic, me, Caina, you who have been representing such fierce interests and survival of the Immunological? So who was the one who actually caused all this together with his relationship in the Government of the Republic of Croatia? And now I'm interested in something else, how much damage has been done to the Immunological Institute because of the impasse in production and because of what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120759	Time. The replica matches Goran Maric [[Intruder Grubisic: Well, you shouldn't, I've said enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120760	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. I think the Immunological Institute is so important to Croatian society that it must always be in the hands of the Croatian people in a direct or indirect manner. And Vision Croatica was just an answer to resisting the immune end in the hands of an individual, so that blood doesn't turn into a market product and that blood doesn't become a potato because blood isn't a potato and they wanted to make it that way. Who's the chef? Well, whoever said I canceled the contest, I'm not gonna let you accept the DUDI proposal to accept Vision Croatica's offer, I'm the one. He said it in public. Why did he say that? Because they've missed expectations. What expectations I don't know, but knowing those who were meant for it and those who were very generous in previous privatisations, those expectations were probably very clear, concrete, and when they were left behind, anything is possible and such decisions are contradictory. But I'm surprised the Director, or Director of the State Office for State Property Management, didn't resign afterwards. Because it's possible that his decision is managed by the state property and that his proposal was not respected. He suggested that Visioni Croatica be sold out because the only ones satisfy the conditions. You know, I believe everything in Croatia, but I don't believe in property transparently, so I don't think the owners are either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120761	The final review of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120762	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank all those who participated in the debate. Everyone said this decision would support what I'm glad of. And I am taking the chance that this is probably the last proposal on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this mandate to thank all MPs for a good and constructive four-year co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120763	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the decision tomorrow. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120764	Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the vote 119 votes in favour, 1 with a abstention and nothing against the decision to supplement the Decision on the list of legal persons of particular state interest in the text as prepared by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we continue at the plenary session of the afternoon Croatian Assembly. It is now up to - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council for Electronic Media The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 68. The law on electronic media. The motion for a decision has been made. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Culture, respected Berislav Šipush. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120766	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very short. The Council for Electronic Media has 7 members, appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. At the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by decision of the Parliament of 4 July 2014, and at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Alemka Lisinski was appointed a member of the Council for Electronic Media at a time of 5 years. In accordance with Article 68(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the The Law on Electronic Media The Croatian Parliament may dismiss a member of the Council before the end of the term of office on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia if a person submits a request for resolution. Alemka Lisinski submitted a request for discharge for personal reasons on 7 September 2015, to which it was appointed by decision of the Croatian Parliament of 4 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120767	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120768	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's going to be a very short discussion, and I could do it with a replica, and it's always nice when someone resigns, so when a well-paid place is resolved and we had a case at the Electronic Media Agency that if you remember one member, we tried to convince him that he was in conflict of interest and eventually it turned out to be in conflict of interest and that he was in two functions at HINA at the Electronic Media Agency. Alemka Lisinski is one of the best journalists I've ever read, met, etc. And I'm sorry that he's leaving the Electronic Media Agency because there's a need for professional people to make this bar called the media space as much as possible and I'm really sorry. I hope the next assembly of Parliament will choose someone who knows how to do the job. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120769	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. On behalf of the OraH club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Mladen Novak. Unfortunately, he's not in the hall, so he's losing his right to discuss this matter. We've exhausted the list of applicants to discuss this topic. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Electronic Media Council. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 112 votes vote in favour of, 1 abstention, nothing against a decision on the resolution of a member of the Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120772	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ahead of us is the final draft of the museum law that passed first and arrived at the second reading. The final proposal was prepared after a thematic session was held on the draft law in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament on 5 May 2015, after meeting with representatives of the European Commission held on 20 May 2015 and a public debate on the final draft of the law from 7 May to 22 May 2015. In addition, some other meetings were held directly at the Ministry of Culture with interested colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Museum Act will regulate the conditions and way of performing museum activities, design and mode of work of museums, museum buildings, expertise and other issues of importance for museum activities. The implementation of the museum activity with the Directive will be coordinated... /123 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services on the internal market applicable to private museums and galleries. The text of the final draft law differs from the draft law in the first reading in the following solutions. The definition of museum activities and museums and according to the definition of museums differs from public and private museums and galleries, so that public museums and galleries can be a public institution or a founding unit of a public institution, while private museums and galleries can be an institution, associations, cooperatives, foundations, a commercial society or their establishment unit as well as a craftsman. A way of establishing museums and galleries has been reorganized so that public museums are founded by the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb and the towns and municipalities, and private museums and other legal and physical persons. We stress that museum activities and museums are defined in a way that takes into account the provisions of the ethical code for museums of the international council, for museums... where the museum is defined as a permanent institution where under an institution and a non-profit organisation, companies include, but those benefiting are exclusively used for the development of museum activities as well as for services on the internal market according to which legal form of performing a museum activity cannot be limited to private museums and galleries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to museum activities, museums and galleries may carry out other activities carried out in addition to museum activities in accordance with specific regulations and the statutes of museums and galleries by carrying out other activities, professional and technical standards prescribed for a specific type of museum and gallery and the statute of the established mission of museums and galleries should not be violated. If in performing museum and other activities the museum and the gallery achieves this profit, the museum and the gallery can exclusively be used to perform and develop museum activities. It is determined that foreign museums and galleries established in another EU Member State or other Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area may carry out permanent museum activities in the Republic of Croatia after enrolment of activities in a judicial or other relevant register in the Republic of Croatia or occasionally or temporarily without entering a museum activity in a court or other relevant register. If it is a temporary or occasional activity, it shall be assessed in practice from case to case, taking into account the frequency and length of performance of the activity and infrastructure and professional equipment. This is also in line with that Internal Market Services Directive. An explicit obligation and responsibility for museums and galleries is provided for in respect of the regular registration of museum items in inventory books and the registration of museum buildings and documentation to competent authorities, i.e. conservation departments of the Ministry of Culture and the City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature in Zagreb in order to establish protection in accordance with the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. A new provision has been introduced that regulates the exemption from enforcement and insurance under a special regulation, according to the Executive Act, museum buildings and documentation owned by a foreign museum and gallery or by a foreign country which, on the basis of a written contract, borrows a museum and galleries in the Republic of Croatia for the presentation of professional and/or scientific processing. There is a way to address the issue of moving the museum building and documentation which is state property from one public museum and gallery in a way that is decided by the Ministry of Culture and with the previous opinion of the Croatian Museum Council. The structure and management of museums and galleries is consistent with the definition of public and private museums and galleries. The bodies of the public museum and galleries are the Museum Council, before it was the Administrative Council, director, then the professional council while private museums and galleries have bodies prescribed by special law and professional council according to this Museum Act. The definition of professional museum staff has been amended in a way that provides that basic museum calling is a curator while other titles represent professional jobs in museums and galleries, i.e. auxiliary jobs. It should be pointed out that this draft final proposal of the Museum Act will extend the list of professional museum titles with titles that, in the meantime, technological development and development of museums and museum professions have become an integral part of the professional museum staff, including the call of marketing and public relations leaders, which have since 2006 been reminded of a binding part of the system of professional museum staff of national and regional museums, and according to the applicable rules on professional and technical standards for determining the type of museums for their work and for the installation of museum buildings, museum documentation. It will also enable professional advances in professional museum titles and passing professional examinations in the museum profession for employees in museums and galleries, as well as independent experts who carry out professionally the professional tasks of professional museum staff, which will, of course, be done in detail by sublegal regulations or regulations. Independent experts who acquire their titles under the laws and regulations will be able to compete on a single European market in their own performance, declared as curators, museum advisers and other titles. It also amended the way the president and members of the Croatian Museum Council were appointed in a way that was appointed by the minister responsible for culture in the order of prominent museum experts on the basis of a public call. The procedure for the appointment of the Croatian Museum Council as de facto of one of the cultural councils of the Ministry of Culture is in line with the procedure for the appointment of other cultural councils, according to the Law on Cultural Councils. By providing for a longer period of time for a public call. In addition, infringement provisions are arranged so that penalties for failure are also provided for if no museum items are recorded neatly in inventory books and if no museum collections are registered for enrolment in the Register of Cultural Goods of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the transitional provisions also provide for the adoption of an inventory programme for all museums and galleries that do not have a complete museum structure in inventory books or have not submitted a request for entry into museum buildings. collection in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. In order to address the cultural heritage of our museums and galleries and to ensure its full protection under national legislation and international acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120773	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture want to present reports of their working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we will go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the ORAH club in the Croatian Assembly and the respected representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120774	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the ORAH Club, I would like to say that the ORAH Club will not support the adoption of this proposal of the Museum Law for the reasons provided to us by the people involved in this profession. In fact, after the first reading of this law was carried out, we received quite a number of objections from the people who deal with this profession, and even after this final bill was presented, we received a number of comments from the people from the museum who are quite dissatisfied with the way this law was even started. One of their comments was that it was not at all necessary to pass a new Museum Act or that it was not exactly what is claimed in the very basis of this law that it was necessary to implement this 2006 EU Directive because no European country had implemented that directive in the Museums Act. Even more so, they argue that the only reason why the Government is even calling for this directive is the actual intensity of this law, that is, the introduction into this Law on Museums of Commercial Society and crafts. And in this way it is actually an alibi for harmonising with European legislation even though it is de facto not at all. There are, of course, some positive things in this bill. I would stress this intensities of the digitisation of the museum building it is an extremely important thing, so it is not according to us at ORAH club nor a bad thing to allow units of local self-government that have up to 10,000 inhabitants, which are founders of cultural centres and open and popular universities to carry out this museum activity because it is thus trying to make a certain turn towards creative industries which is the thing that should in any case be supported by us who are involved in politics or in the public interest. At this point, according to what the legislator tells us in Croatia, we have a 281 museum in which 995 museum workers work and what they pointed out as a controversial place of this law is new professional affairs, i.e. professional distribution of different museum jobs in this law. Some of these terms have been corrected between the two readings, however, they continue to warn on Article 40 where they say that the concept of a prominent museum expert is not defined, i.e. that a member of the Croatian Museum Council must be in the status of a museum consultant or an exceptional person who has achieved outstanding results in museum activities, in national or international frameworks, it is essential that he has the experience of realising a permanent museum position and knows contemporary museum practices. They point out that such a wide-ranging framework is unacceptable and allows people who do not have enough experience in the national council to decide on the financing of the entire museum activity in the Republic of Croatia. And here I would actually mention one more, so I would say an unusual situation, which is that in law or legal reasoning, it points out that to implement this law it will not be necessary to allocate additional funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which, in the opinion of experts, is not the case. Article 1 points out that the museum activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and is carried out as a public service but through the definition of the applicant it is not clear how the Republic of Croatia would exercise supervision and protect public interest in the event that the activity is carried out by private founders for commercial interests. And for this additional amount of business, it would be necessary to plan additional financial resources and for employees to recognise this law is not foreseen. They also warn that the exhibition gallery is not a museum and that the regulation should regulate certain features of how much it wants to register its museum activity and ask the question of what is it like before the exhibition gallery? It is likely that other representatives’ clubs that have received similar remarks as we have at the ORAH Club will warn of the provisions of Article 5 of Article 27 of Article 30, as referred to in Article 31 of Article 29 of Article 40, which I have already mentioned and would in fact be instructed for the Proposer to try to correct this bill with certain amendments, given that unfortunately there is no longer any possibility that, in this meeting of the Assembly, we will vary in a different way, correct this proposal for a law through a third reading. Since we did not get the impression through the public debate that such political will or urgency exists with the promoters, we doubt that such a thing will happen until the vote, and that is why we cannot support this final proposal of the Museum Act at the ORAH Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120775	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120776	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament here is the last time in this term I thank you for giving me the word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers with the deputy what we in the HNS said and in our first reading, we will support the law, we will support it, we will support it in this second reading. And then I said, and now I'm going to repeat, one of the key values in principle of this law is that it doesn't close its eyes to the fact that both life and the world around us are moving forward and that progress as unusually as it sounds should be seen and reflected on museums. This law is a good law and there's no reason not to support it and there's no reason to doubt whether it's a good law or not. His basic idea is the reason for making are positive, and the performance in our opinion is very quality and good. What seems particularly commendable to us is indeed, that is, the proposer of this law is indeed between the first and second readings, which is not always the case, he observed a whole series of remarks that appeared at any committee meetings, whether in the debate here in the Parliament, whether in the public debate, or in the suggestions of all those who actively took part in this debate. In his first reading, he was good, but surely by respecting all these remarks, it was a proposal that was still given at quality and I repeat, without delay we can support. One of the things that have been clarified that have caused disputes, justified or not justified, that's another story, is this issue of economic activity. It explains that the exercise of economic activity must not violate the professional and technical standards prescribed for the performance of the museum's activities. So it's not just some general provision that says not to, but clearly knows what the standards are and can't be bypassed or violated by this law. It is also more clearly defined that the Internal Market Services Directive applies only to private museums and galleries because it was a certain fear of people from public museums and galleries that this would apply to them. No, this proposal in the second reading clearly defines that this is not about public museums but only about private museums and galleries. Definitions of the International Museum Council were accepted, as regards public and private museums, the same was requested. What is particularly important is that museums and galleries are prescribed to list or inventory museum buildings so that it can be protected in accordance with the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. It's one topic that has caused a lot of controversy in so far's debates. Namely, opponents or critics of this law claimed that this law opened the entry of a private initiative, and then the entry of a private initiative opened up a space for trade, illegal trade, smuggling, theft and all that was imputed to building or artistic cultural goods. That was a very common objection. Here with this more precise formulation, it seems to us, even though it seemed to us in the first reading that it was quite clear what it was about, that it was impossible, but this formulation we agree on further precision. Implementing measures for those to be listed are also listed and in what way, especially for those who have not yet done so, and even some sanctions exist. I would like to point out that this is usually an interesting thing, an interesting phenomenon is not unusual in the Republic of Croatia among those who have most objected against this law and have said that this will lead to unauthorized trade in cultural goods is those who have not made inventory in their museums, have not made a list of the goods they have, and the only serious danger of unauthorized traffic is that we do not have an inventory, that we do not know what are good with which museums are available. So here is a clear obligation to make this inventory, deadlines and ways are prescribed and even sanctions are foreseen. The part is further slightly reinforced by the provision that public museums cannot sell, replace or donate museum buildings without the ministry's consent, and if they sell museum buildings, money can only be used to obtain new buildings. This seems good to us, and this is in line with what we've been saying all along, so this law introduces exactly the opposite, not the possibility. So this law reduces the possibility of manipulation and unauthorized distribution and traffic by construction. As regards these many, often and intensely contested provisions on economic activity in this final proposal, it is said that museums and galleries may carry out other activities in accordance with specific regulations and statutes. We will support it, of course, and we support that change, although frankly our opinion in the HNS club, I did, and then in the first reading he said that we are not afraid of economic activity and that we should not be afraid of economic activity, but this is the same provision that is ok. And we don't have any particular reason not to support her. A few more details I would like to emphasise is that the issue of moving the museum building and documentation owned by the state is also required. This may seem like a small thing at first sight, but we have had a lot of problems in such cases, especially when it comes to establishing new museums or some similar situations where it's just the moving of buildings and the absence of regulations that caused people to have operational problems, so this article is being dealt with and we believe that part. And what is further precise, although in our opinion it was clear before who founded the public and who founded the private museums. Because one of the frequent objections to that proposal from the first reading was that fear that this law would open up space for public museums to turn into private ones, which was neither intention nor realistically possible in this proposal at all, it is further emphasized. In that sense, we support that change. I won't really talk about all the changes, Minister Shipush has detailed them, there's no reason for me to handle them all in particular. So the last thing I'm going to say is that there were disputes, you remember about these calling museums, now the solution is that the basic museum calling is curator and then the rest is professional affairs. We hope that this will then be a solution that satisfies all those who feared these situations that were most often related to PR and marketing in museums and museums. The HNS Club has submitted two amendments to the selection of directors in local museums, so in museums that are very difficult to meet the conditions laid down here in this law. We hope this will further facilitate the functioning of museums, especially these small, small museums at local levels. The second amendment also concerns the decision-making procedure for the acquisition of higher titles. Let me finish. The HNS club will support this law. We think it's really a good law. This law is, now for four years we have been here together, you are all aware that this law has been discussed both by the professional public and the general public and we here in the Parliament and on the committee and at the plenary session more and more often than by many other laws. It's a real reality. There were a lot of objections, there were a lot of criticism, in our opinion mostly unwarranted. There are two fundamental things that seem important to us and that this law is passed. One is that those who are in the public museum system are opening up some new opportunities that have not been opened to them so far or if they have been opened to them then the procedure to achieve them has been much more transparent and much more complicated and also opens up the possibility of entering a private initiative. I guess that's the question, I don't know, I guess that's the question at the end of the day and some kind of worldview and attitude to things. We're not afraid of private initiatives, we're not afraid of competition. We don't think that the museum should be a dust collector and that duster is the ultimate range of museums that can be held. A little competition, a little initiative, a little new energy certainly won't hurt in this activity either. Public museums will remain public, public museums will continue to finance public money, public museums will continue to save public money if we want to be open to ourselves and others. But those who want new opportunities and activities, new opportunities and profits, and promotions of what they have in their museums, and of the programmes, are given new opportunities and activities, but it also opens up space for private initiatives to enter museum activities in any form. We support it, we have no problem with it, we think it's good. 2015 is almost over and I don't think we should be afraid of private initiatives anymore. My colleagues and colleagues, thank you all once again and I'll see you at some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120777	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community club is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120778	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I agree with the first sentence of an esteemed colleague who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club that this is one of the last debates in this assembly. It is certainly one of the latest cultural debates in the Republic of Croatia. Let me say that when it's among the last to make one retrospective of what we did in the four years of the Ministry of Culture's assembly of this government. Until today, except for one smaller law regarding the Foundation, the Croatian House did not have a complete law. We didn't bring any strategic documents. We didn't present a media strategy that led us to set up a special department at the Ministry of Culture. This presented us as a huge success of 3.5 years of strategy. We had only amendments and additions to the law, I will remind you of the Law on HRT, the Law on HINA, the Law on Theatres, and only those articles that applied how to choose the majority in the Croatian Parliament as the leading people. In addition to these recent public debates that the minister stated in the Croatian Parliament, we did not have the right debate. In the meantime, we have entered full membership following negotiations to join the European Union, we have entered the European Union as a full member. We haven't implemented any reforms in our cultural institutions to prepare them for work in that environment. We haven't even prepared our independent cultural scene, and we haven't prepared the culture ministry's budget. It was necessary to do the following. Both colleagues and colleagues, I'm saying this in some way because of all of us. Because the Ministry of Culture is actually a strategic ministry when you enter into the integration of 500 million people and you're actually a republic that has 4.5 million inhabitants. All public money you have in your budget must be political if you want a vision to help preserve and develop cultural identity. Preservation and development. All that part of the culture that can function in such a way as to obtain some of the European Union funds must be organised in this way. And thirdly, culture has to work complementaryly with other parts of society, science, education, tourism, the economy in order to gain the effects it can achieve, which is that serious countries have over 4% of GDP in the cultural sector. The entire cultural industry that was announcing at the beginning of the government's mandate, that they would now be trying to help them, from publishing, and further practically collapse. And only recently did we have the completion of major projects that started in 2009. In 2010, like the opening of the Museum of Voldolic Culture, which we are glad is open. It was only recently opened a museum on the Knin fortress, only recently we had an open Museum of Blue Alka, and I remind you that the Alkar Courts were practically finished in construction terms already in 2011, so it was only a setup that had to be done. When you look at the whole situation then you have a situation to come to you on the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Assembly of Museums in your second reading. I agree that in the second reading compared to the first that a good series of remarks is respected. Unfortunately, however, the key changes are not respected and counterpart Coleman has no right to say that we are afraid of private initiatives to enter the museum. No, not at all. You come to a good day at the Trade Court and start a company that you call, say, the Museum of Interrupted Relationships and you act as a company. And you don't have any legal fences to do it today. If, in the definition of a museum that does not exist in any basic programming document, you include that... and the company is in some way subject to the laws on commercial societies, rather than to the law on museums. So no one's stopping a private initiative. Does it have a private collection, a private numismatic collection, a private ethnographic collection, any such initiative to open a company by law today and call it the Coleman Ethnographic Collection Museum because the Coleman family has collected through decades and generations of ethnographic collections. It leaves them with the possibility of exchanges, trades, etc., leaving them with the possibility of cooperation, leaving them with the possibility of marketing, leaving them with the possibility of everything else, but it does not put them evenly in relation to those museums that apply their programmes to public money. There's a difference. The proposal for it to be fully even doesn't match what I said in the first two or three sentences, and why the Ministry of Culture should serve in these times and times ahead of us. Because otherwise, if that's not the case, then it's absolutely right that the ministry doesn't. I don't see any other political motive. Of course we can't support that kind of thing. If we'd seen the Ministry of Culture fight and that it requires what a colleague said that inventory in many museums isn't done properly, it's not true, it's been 50-60 years. I can tell you exactly how much progress there was from 2005 to 2011 because the director was also changing because of it. The worst is in archaeological museums, the worst is because at one point the number of archaeological research was so great, it had to be done because of protective works so that the flow of findings into museums was so much that adequate inventory was not carried out. The register that was to be updated and constantly published on the Ministry of Culture website I do not know at what current stage, but it was just supposed to be used to protect cultural heritage as well as that heritage in museums. In that sense, I wanted to say, when you look at 2011 there were 6 proposals from the culture ministry sector that came into the parliamentary procedure. All six were accepted unanimously. It took countless meetings, a lot of nerves, a lot of wishes, and a lot of will to bring things to which some things could be based. One of them is your Amendments to the Law on Audiovisual Activities. It's this law that makes film co-productions today. The basic was adopted in 2010, amendments and additions 2011. This is the law, for example, on the basis of which some ministers from other sectors are completely photographed and praised that this was their contribution, and this was the contribution of the then position and opposition because the law was passed unanimously, because such a public debate was held and such a conversation that it was clear to everyone that it was good for Croatia. It is an immeasurable contribution for both the Croatian economy and the cultural identity of Croatia and for the tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia and for the development of small businesses and small crafts that are involved in the provision of audiovisual service services. That's how we had to set up the Ministry of Culture and these four years that were practically behind us. I think we've missed a big chance and I'm kind of afraid that by opening this Museum Law, we're not going to fix any of the problems that these museum institutions have and that we're going to create new ones. And finally, when you have a budget of 0.49% for culture then it says very much, and here is then Minister Schuker he might remember exactly that in 2009, we had a culture budget somewhere around 1% of the budget. Which should be some kind of European standard. When you put together a budget of 0.49% for culture, it's a terrible message. Don't let that happen to us again. When you look back in the millenniums before us and centuries before us who was the only integral factor of people who lived in this space and who were called Croats, then you will realize that it was a cultural identity. Because they were divided among other countries, because they were divided into other political prerogatives, because they served in various armies, because they were officially traveling around the world. At a time when there was no independent state of culture and some parts of religion and religion were the only integral factor. That's where I mean both language and everything. Therefore, if you have this historic experience to go to the future in the EU with a budget of 0.49% and then on these small public funds to open up this possibility of private inoculation, I would say that you are doing a very bad future. Thank you very much. HDZ will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120779	Thank you too, colleague. It's got a few replicas. Dear Drazen Djurovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120780	Oh, thank you. Well, my colleague, I think, unlike you, that the central axis that maintained the Croatian people was a religious identity, not cultural identity, and about the elements then were elements of culture, so not that it was a cultural element and religion but that it was a religious identity that was the fundamental element and elements of culture that existed and intertwined in all the areas where the Croats lived. I also think that I can say again that I believe that the Republic of Croatia with 4.2 million kuna in its financial state has no need at all to have a separate Ministry of Culture as one of the 20 state ministries. Much larger countries have a culture sector collected in fewer ministries. Not only culture, there is still a whole series in this government of ministries that will have to be integrated into a much better, significantly smaller number of ministries that will be more functional and where there will not be much resolutions as we have today, the Ministry of Culture and in a strange way to spend money. Thirdly, the Ministry of Culture and in the mandate of this Government were free to say the litter of numerous affairs which further damaged even the reputation if you want to indirectly and Croatian culture. Let's remember, I don't think we should be reminded at all. Fourthly, I would agree with you on the assessment and this bill proposal that he is in fact only one in a series of failed proposals from the Ministry of Culture which took place throughout the term of this government and systematically from the beginning to the last day of the last session, almost the last points of the agenda of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120781	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120782	Well, I don't know if you listened well to me, but I did say cultural identity and parts of religious identity. Namely, the basis of cultural identity in its definition goes from language to belonging. So I put an emphasis on it. I also said in my section that, of course, religious identity has also contributed to the preservation of cultural identities. However, this would be given in certain times through history in certain parts of Croatia to debate. Even sometimes it served because it was dominated by, say, Italian intensities, etc., etc. However, in some ways I believe that in the long term, even in these times of general migration that we are witnessing, these times of permeability of borders, these times when such changes occur in the modern world, when Europe is on the one hand disbanded and it integrates on the one hand that the issue of preserving cultural identity is practically a strategic issue. When you have a demographic situation in Croatia like you have, then it is a very, very big question whether to speak very quickly within 2.3 generations of this space as a space that has not preserved what it has inherited from the century that has preceded us. In that sense, the Ministry of Culture is a strategic ministry. I don't see what could be more important in some way. If I tell you that culture was the only integration factor along with this naturally religious and religious component, when the economy was run elsewhere, when it was warring for others, when you had to send your representatives to parliaments in Budapest, Belgrade or your skaters to the Mletka culture was the only integration factor that preserved the population's survival in space. Whoever doesn't realize it today really doesn't have any vision of cultural politics and can't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120783	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120784	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague Mesic, I only wanted one thing, this business company and museum. You're right in one piece. So it is really possible to start a commercial society in Croatia now called the museum, the Museum of Interrupted Relationships is such a case. But what you're wrong about is the assessment of this bill. This bill changes it for the better. Because according to this proposal, the law will no longer be able to establish a trading society museum that does not meet all the rules and regulations set out in this law. This will no longer be known as the museum and those companies that are today called the museum if they do not comply and if they do not comply, we will no longer be able to call the museum. In other words, this law stipulates that the commercial society of the museum must also comply with all those standards that the museum must meet to be a museum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120785	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120786	So this is the first time I've heard such an explanation. I've never heard that on any committee or anything like that. In that variant, you're completely destroying a private initiative. This means that the Coleman families who have their own collection, the ethnographic which they want to present to the Croatian public will also be required to have a director, two curators, a preparator and to run their private collection on the basis of how it is run by the Ethnographic Museum. Well, then it won't be any private museum if you put it like that, and that's not true, dear fellow you said. The point is that you will make a situation that the next public call for cultural funding will be made by 30 new or 40 new galleries and exhibition spaces that will require financial support to be given to them in their work. This way, you will make the cookie you have reduced to 0.49% more difficult in the budget, further weaken, and not speak in which way you are able to perform the wrong moves. Since I see that your party's esteemed amendment is where you suggest you hire for leading people of museums, local museums that have only one year of working experience in museums. So my logical next question is where else do you need to hire HNS's after a lot of public companies where you've hired them after you've opened a new Department of Media at the Ministry of Culture who in 3.5 years is unable to write three over-pages about the media strategy you announced at the beginning and who the naive opposition has supported me to bring it in because we hoped it was going in some direction. I hope you'll pass the amendment, I'm almost certain that some of whom you promised a leading job, not a job as a trainee, an intern, someone who will come and gather knowledge, will probably succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120787	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your speech, you have made one inventory of the work of the Ministry of Culture in this term of office and in the work of your presentation you cannot agree because you see that they have even succeeded so much in this photo finish before the end of the session managed to come with another reading of the Museum Act. You were talking about everything they didn't get to do in their term of office and you set up your entire exposure a little bit wider. I have to admit that I can't get involved in this story at all about companies called museums, but in my mind, it sounds kind of ghastly, and I think it's the opposite of what culture should be. I wonder what other companies we're gonna start later, I'm not even gonna tell you what first occurred to me so I don't insult anyone. But what was particularly interesting in your presentation, given that I followed the fact of funding from the state budget, which is now twice as small for culture as it was a few years ago. You said some other ministries and heads of these ministries were doing the work of the Ministry of Culture. And it actually asked me to come to the phone because our regulations and laws are against the law. In fact, it is not in line with the law that other ministries fall into the portfolio in this case of the Ministry of Culture, although they even did so and carried over jobs and contracts concluded with public notaries. I wonder what you meant when you talked about it. I can't believe this government was acting against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120789	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120790	And what I meant by a respected colleague is quite clear. I was thinking of a very successful official trip by Minister Maras to Las Vegas and Los Angeles, which, in his statement, agreed to record the continuation of a famous series of Game of Thrones. Of course it came after the Game of Thrones had failed, then the government hastily called Minister Šipusa to take it back anyway. So we've recently seen the Honorable Minister of Shipus at Winnetou's shoot, and that's going very well as I can see. In fact, I told you this in context, many have already been terrified that some ministers would be involved in stunt roles here and in the stunts, given that we saw them riding on horses, and pushing plows, etc. So, what I wanted to say is that there are laws in the cultural sector that can really be brought unanimously to the benefit of all, which can in some ways be implemented in a quality debate, respecting the proposals of both sides. I therefore noted this as an example of the laws adopted in 2010 and 2011 which have been implemented since 2012 as a good foundation for how culture can contribute to society. There is a possibility of how the funds can be included in culture with a very smart cultural policy. I remind you of the case of the State Archives in Kerestinec, the project has been practically for 3 years now, and I hear that something has been launched by the Ministry and that is because there was an ideal possibility that this project could be given EU funding and under the influence of effective, improving the efficiency of the administration where citizens and businesses could come much easier to access archival material. Unfortunately, in parallel, we've opened up to this side of various private companies...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120791	Thank you very much. If you'll allow me to ask a question from culture, may I ask a future assembly of Parliaments? The intruder doesn't understand. Then I'll write it down. ... Here's what I'm going to do. You're going to report me to Peggy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is there a culture without spirituality, is there a spirituality without culture, and is there a spirituality without sacrifice? It's for the future. Here you go, buddy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120792	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure, not because of the question, but you didn't tell who you were asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120793	A future stimulant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120794	Well, he can't. The alliance cannot suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120795	Thank you very much. I appreciate that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I hope you'll consider the time I did it. Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dubravko Bilic are at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120796	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would say that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law in the second reading and without the apocalyptic tones that followed the previous debate. Indeed, culture is an integral factor, but not only integrational, it is also a question factor, a factor of reviewing its own being, its own identity, and it is therefore extremely important, especially as counterpart Mesic said about small peoples in the environments of large peoples, great traditions so-called. Great cultures. And indeed culture is very important because of that. There may have been a lot more courageous moves in some parts, but we have before us a law on museums that touches those fundamental cultural laws, and it is good to discuss it today as counterpart Coleman said in 2015, and that after six or seven years of validity of the old law we re-examine certain provisions and allow museum activities to rapidly develop or develop in step with time. Perhaps this law could have been more courageous in many ways, but the changes it brings will also open up the possibility of creating a private initiative, but also perhaps a tremor, so to speak, of museum activity itself. We must not forget that museum activity is one of the oldest cultural activities in the Republic of Croatia since the middle of the 16th century the first museums and this rich tradition and rich history and of course the wealth of these 280 museum institutions that we have justifiably created this public debate that was both after the first reading and before the first reading, here and now before the second reading. This public debate is here, and colleague Holly made some remarks, raised a number of questions. Some issues are caused by fear of change, which is perfectly normal for such a traditional profession, and some questions are also caused by a certain misunderstanding, so it is good to clarify them here in the Assembly. It seems to me that one of the more important things that my colleague Holly has encouraged is the open possibility of establishing small museum activities, small collections within the centre of culture, popular universities, so those small towns which some of them are rich and archaeological treasures and various other cultural treasures, and so far have not had the opportunity to preserve their treasures found in their field and often or too often ended in depots, not even on the exhibition windows of larger museums or in Zagreb or in some regional centres, and unfortunately they will never again be seen in these environments from prehistoric objects to Roman times or to some other time. And that's one of the reasons why this law should definitely be supported. It should also be supported by an amendment of colleagues from the HNS that points to our everyday life that we have not had in every small town a museum expert who has 5 or 7 or 10 years of work experience, but we have people who do so in that culture, work for culture and fight to preserve that cultural heritage of their own. And it must be possible for them to be the bearers of this cultural museum, museological activity in their midst. And that's why you don't have to make fun of it, it's not really about any infatuations, it's about accepting reality as it is. as it is in small towns 300 or 400 or 600km away from Zagreb or from some other centres. My colleague Holly mentioned another very important fact, which is the digitization of the museum building. It is said a little, but museums also need to digitise museum buildings more and more, according to the international museum arrangements, and make it available to the public so that they can look at it from their home, from the chair in their living room and should insist on it. But what is very, very important, to which this law places a special emphasis is the inventory of the museum building. We now have a number of museums or a large number of museums that do not even know what they have in their warehouses and depots. And that step will actually do, their digitisation, their invertarization will further enrich the museum itself but it will also prevent everything that has happened so far maybe that some objects that are not inverted, for which everyone has forgotten may end up somewhere where they shouldn't. And I think this law solves the good and question of new research, so the question of storing the newly discovered cultural treasure, which is of paramount importance to these small environments, but also to the discovery, in fact, the re-discovering of many artifacts that are hidden in museum deposits and which may even have key identity features, and here they are not really who, there is no one to actually see. What I'd like to say is just in the end, this fear is actually for the loss of public money. Since these private museums will also be able to report to the Ministry of Culture competitions for certain programmes. So not for construction, not for heating, not for employment, but for implementing certain cultural programs that we are all going to use. So all citizens of this country or tourists will benefit from these programmes if they are good. And that is why it is not for the public institutions, public museums to be left without money, but for all of us both in the public sector and in private, to offer citizens the best they can produce. And there's no need to be afraid for our public museums. Just look at this "Night of the Museum" project, which is one of the better cultural projects. Unfortunately, that day alone attracts many, many visitors, and over the year much less. But it speaks much more of us than museums themselves. And what's good, which the ministry has observed through public debate, and that's what these professions are. In fact, the curator is determined to be a basic museum profession, that certain professional and auxiliary professions are, and thus decreases in fact this fear of estimating artistic, professional work within the museum. But on the other hand, our museums have to get closer to the public, they have to open up to the citizens, and the fact is that even with the best knowledge of the curator, the best knowledge sometimes they themselves fail to bring the values of their work and the building they own in museums to the citizens themselves. Still, it may take some marketing expert who can do exactly that part of the job without, of course, entering the very scale of the profession but can attract an audience to the museum. Because the museum itself is like someone said a place that will cover the dust with art artifacts that are part of our identity is not really a museum it's an archive. And the museum must be a meeting place, a place of reflection, a place of making new decisions, and that's actually the value of the museum. And his greatest value is through the exhibitions. But they must attract audiences to keep finding answers to these questions. No longer is the SDP club going to back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120797	Thank you too, dear colleague Bilic. We have one replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120798	Well, dear colleague, first of all, about the night of the museum, it's a licensed event, it's not our product, it's our product, it's simply taken from the outside, it's lived well. I also have this opinion of whether it's the right solution for thousands and thousands of people to push in one night and then a year after that we sell at some museums just 1000 or 2,000 tickets throughout the year. That's very questionable. It would have been much better if we had made a real agreement with the Ministry of Science and Education so that we had a continuous inflow, etc. I think that would be a lot more directional. As for what you said about museums in other environments and about this amendment, a colleague from the HNS. I am a very great advocate of establishing a museum outside of Zagreb in terms of particularly specialised ones. And there are very nice examples in Croatia if you want from this museum of werewolf culture through the Museum of Sinjska Alka, a recently opened Ornitological Museum in Metkovic, which is a good job, and in that part I can really say that we support the Ministry of Culture in what it has done. So a very specific niche where it can be. Now, you can't start with that museum, and this is exactly what these museums are all about, in the sense that they're making a rich cultural offer. If you're going already with the decree that it's enough for someone to have one year's internship in the museum profession. Don't be angry, pal. I'd like to see this fellow who's really going to be able to run a museum like this where the ministry has invested a lot of public money, the best I could believe in in this way is trying to lead such an environment. You're not going to get the effect that I think you have on your mind and that it really works very well. I'm very good at introducing young employees into these particular segments, but let's be realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120799	Replica response, respected representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120800	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mesic, I know it's a license program, of course, that opens up a lot of problems from security aspects to too many people all of a sudden in a space that's not intended for such a large number, but that action has actually brought the museums closer to the citizens. Now, maybe we should take that second step, I agree with you in cooperation with the Ministry of Education that this part becomes regular, continuous, that from young days, children actually need to go to the museum, the need to go to the museum. And here I am glad that this Museum of Homeland War is actually going to be in Vukovar that now here are going through schools for two days children in Vukovar organized so that part might be applied to other aspects. In fact, when you're talking about this aspect, the HNS amendment is actually about hiring people, the intensity is actually how much I understand it, and maybe I'm wrong about those institutions in the small environments that are set up, so in places up to 10,000 residents where either collections or museums within the mere schools, culture centres, to enable such environments to employ these people, and not in museums that cost several million kunas and funded by the Ministry of Culture. I think the intensity of the amendment is exactly that way, not playing the rules for some other cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120801	We've finished the debate by the representatives' clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Joseph Kregar. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want final? Yeah. Here you are, dear Minister Šipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120802	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who have participated in this debate since the first reading and through the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Culture, through current committee discussions and today here in this place. Very short. Thank you, of course, to those in the Croatian Museum Council, colleagues and colleagues from the museums of Croatia and the City of Zagreb who have been involved, I would say very strongly in the debate over this law, which only says that culture remains a very important fact, a factor and something that cannot be discussed in this country, I am sure. A few answers and clarifications to colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate. As for harmonising with the European Union Directive and our proposal to the European Commission was not to harmonise the text of the Law on Museums with the European Directive, but our current law had restrictions on the legal basis of private persons who wanted to set up a museum. They could only have been institutions, and therefore we had to comply according to the European Commission's position, our law and the proposal of our law with that directive, which applies exclusively to private museums and galleries, or private persons, and is now a very wide area of legal basis on which someone can base the museum. As for the supervision of the legality of work, whether it is state museums, county, city or now private, we still have offices of state administrations in the county, and in Zagreb it is the City Office for Culture which is in charge of supervision. The Ministry shall exercise control of, of course, the institutions over which it has the authority. Members of the Croatian Museum Council by law can be elected on the proposal of museum professional associations. I am truly convinced that the top museum expert can propose best, I believe that they want to propose the best and that the Minister of Culture will come to the best candidates for members of the Croatian Museum Council. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think that more or less my colleague Mesic and counterpart Bilic read well about what this is about, there is simply nothing I would say, as someone mentioned, but I remind you, it is an amendment that joins the article on selecting and selecting the director of the museum, whether it is local, city or national, but only one attitude is added here that says only exceptionally about the local museum in the local area. Let us be aware that we can have problems getting a young man, a young expert with 5 years of museum experience or with 10 years of working in culture to be our museum director in a smaller place, in a local museum operating in a local area. So we're extremely opening up that possibility, but there's still a commitment to every one that sits in the county, in a town, and eventually the one who's the culture minister, that's going to be elected by the director. So here's the deal, I wouldn't last any longer. I thank everyone one more time. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120803	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote tomorrow on the final bill. Final proposal of the Museum Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 791. The final text debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club. Minister of Culture, respected Berislav Šipush. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120805	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120806	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120807	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120808	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. ... Okay, we're stopping. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120809	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. If I'm not mistaken, the debate was in the afternoon about this law, and the government's session was in the morning. As far as I know on the government portal, it wasn't that it was an extraordinary cabinet meeting, and according to the rules of procedure proposed by the government itself, the amendment could be accepted if it wasn't accepted by the government. So, line up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120810	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, the date of the amendment was 23.9.2015, the government laid down an amendment to the text. ... Don't yell at your colleague, you have a microphone that boosts even. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, I've put the final bill to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that the majority of the vote is 75 votes in favour of, no abstentions, 36 votes against the adopted and passed law of the P.Z.E. No. 791. We will now move on to - Final draft law confirming the Treaty on the Centre for Research and Innovation of the Western Balkans WISE, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 922 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the proposing representative like to give an introductory explanation? Here you go. Dear Roko Andricevic, Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120812	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. The proposed law confirms the Treaty on the Centre for Research and Innovation of the Western Balkans, which was officially signed in Split on 18 September 2015. The centre is founded with a fundamental mission to promote the cooperation of scientists within and outside the Western Balkans region with a special emphasis on the scientific diaspora in order to enable the joint use of large scientific infrastructures and the promotion of centres of excellence. It is key to note that this centre will play an extremely important role in promoting the mobility of young researchers and PhDs in the Western Balkans region and between the region and other countries. As host country of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of this centre will strengthen its role in the region in particular in the field of public policies in the field of science and innovation research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120813	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120814	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. If this is the last point that will be today before tomorrow's vote of the agenda, then it's really bitter. Because the mention of this title, which is mentioned here, is probably why it is the last, I suppose, that it would be in the end so that it may not be noticed in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, with the final proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Centre for Research and Innovation of the Western Balkans – WISE, with the final draft of the law. And I don't know how we're going to English or I don't know how we're going to read it, it says WISE, and now we're going to have to, since we've joined the Western Balkan countries, it's going to be read as it says, and then we have to read it looks like that. And now look, the region that is very often used and used by the foreign minister, so the Western Balkans region, as it likes to say, is likely to give support to the lady-general of the UN, the region of Albania, BiH, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, has no Slovenia. But there is Albania and Kosovo. So, apart from Slovenia, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, ex-Yugoslavija plus Albania. There is another term or other composition, a set-up of those countries, among which there are sometimes Moldova, sometimes Romania and even Turkey, etc. However, of course, Turkey belongs there since it has a smaller part of the territory in the far southeast of Europe. Then two terms are used, Southeast European countries and Western Balkan countries. And who keeps pushing this Western Balkans or any other institution, I wonder personally and my friends and mine to say and political associates why and why we have a constant need to use anything in the Western Balkans system? So did we fight for the Western Balkans and negotiate with the Western Balkan countries or have we spent so many years talking at the door of the EU waiting for finally the 1st of July 2013 when we joined the EU? Why do we keep returning Croatia to the territory of some Western Balkans in some kind of integration of the Western Balkans, Southeast Europe, etc.? When we talk about the very substrate of this legislative proposal, this is about the Western Balkans Research and Innovation Centre. It's a good thing I saw it in this material, and I mentioned it once, so it's better written now, says the region, but with a small r, not a large one. I warned you before. Because then it's an official designation of a region called the Western Balkans. Although the region has never been formally established, it would be the reconstruction of Yugoslavia's former perhaps Albania and, plus, Albania, yes, and there is no Slovenia. So, when we look at this Research and Innovation Center and we look at the scientific development of these countries, so-called. Then I think that we will not be overly underestimating the role of anyone in the scientific work and the contribution of these countries to the sciences of the world and of Europe, therefore not underestimating, but when we see these countries being singled out for science and their overall situation, then I fear that we are not really in a group or group that would be representative of science. We formed, as you know, and not you from the Ministry of Education, Sports and others, higher education, and the Sava Commission about 15 years ago. Do you know how many, the Sava Commission consists of countries which are therefore situated along the Sava River, which are Slovenia, BiH, Croatia and Serbia. Do you know how many times they've met? Only when a commission of Savska was established and once again in 15 years. And what use would you say Faye has that commission if he met once in 15 years? It says here in this legislative proposal that the centre of WISE come, so it is formed in Split, that it meets at least twice a year and has its staff, administratively and every other, auxiliaryly, etc. and the amount that the Republic of Croatia allocates for the needs of 2015 is a total of 58 thousand kuna. If, therefore, all scientific, academic institutions can participate in this centre. I am convinced that it can participate, perhaps if the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and other Academys participate, might be one time to discuss in this centre a new memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a scientific paper, a contribution in the field of social activities, etc. On 26 February 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision on the opening of a contract procedure and authorised the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to sign this contract and then, by the conclusion of 17 September, earlier today, a date, I don't know, seven days ago, adopted a report on the leading negotiations between these countries and the Ministers of Science, etc. and the contract was signed a day later on 18 September in Split and 21 September 2015 in Zagreb. And the original in English. And what else does it say? The official language of this centre of WISE is English. Apart from representatives of Kosovo and Albania, I think everyone else can agree quite well in other languages, so to speak. But here's because it's very interesting that in Split, in that center, there will be an official agreement in English, which is so little I won't say about the mockery, but here's a little funny. This material defines exactly who, the associated members, the committee's work, the committee's tasks, the director, and everything else that's clear, come precisely from this bill and I wouldn't find any regrets, but I'm overall honest against the establishment of a center like this because I don't think he's actually going to serve any purpose, but he's going to show time. I can't be the psychic Milan. But when we look at the Sava commission, which is about the same countries other than Albania and Kosovo, so it is represented and Slovenia is there, then we see that the nis is actually benefiting from what the Zagorci say from such a commission. So I don't think there's gonna be any use to this WISE that's here being formed, officially working in English and it's called Western Balkan resorts and innovation center so we can start talking in English about the very name of that institution or institution. And I think it's high time that we step away from the Western Balkans once, because we belong to middle Europe or Central Europe, to a multicity group that used to make another country and now far more advanced, today those countries that were in one community were much more advanced, civilised and much more advanced and isolated for science than the ones that I try to associate with and make some kind of agreement with, etc. Although, of course, you don't need to ignore the store and everything else that goes to the good neighbors. But the creation of an artificial, imposing region in the Western Balkans is getting on my nerves honestly speaking. That's why the HDSSB club will be against this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120815	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Ante Babic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120816	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Grubisic, so here at the end as you have noticed if this is the final point of the agenda of this alliance then it is the crown of the work of this government, this is called by the Parliament, then it is the crown of the work of this government and that is the truth. I can't even explain it if you watched the press today of the Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, which and how he referred or talked to the neighbours across the border. We, the last day proposed by law, are actually confirming a contract to conclude with the Republic of Serbia. I really can't understand that. I cannot understand that we have been in the EU for 2 years and that this government has finally turned to the Western Balkans instead of following all those trends and integrating ourselves into the EU, to follow what, if you will, and the President of the Republic is telling that Baltica diagonal towards the Adriatic, which is certainly useful for us. In these four years, we've actually been dealing with ideological laws, we've been at war with all social groups, retroactively charging taxes, we've been holding down investment, and we're finally getting a proposal for this law that we're supposed to adopt tomorrow. Will he support it by ruling I suppose he will because they put this on the agenda. We certainly won't support this, but it's a tragedy that this actually happened at the end. Is this really a sign of this government and the government's intentions to show the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what they've been doing in these four years and in which direction they've been going or not, and is that a message to the citizens for this election? I guess they'll decide for themselves and know what they've been doing in these four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120817	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120818	Comrade Babic, there was another law similar to this law, and then it was written... in a capital letter, in a capital letter. Which means it's an official region. And I have heard about it many times in the European Parliament. In fact, it seems to me that our diplomacy has increased in these four years well to introduce Croatia as some kind of leader of the Western Balkans. So we don't need to be the leader, let's be the leader of Europe, let's be small like Malaysia became an Asian tiger, or Estonia a European tiger let's make Croatia a European tiger. What do we need, not what we need, of course, to trade, to have traffic, open borders, etc. But this kind of thing, and then it seems to me that even with a intention like a red cloth, they wave to that Western Balkans. Finally, in the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it says there is no more association with the countries of the former Yugoslavia. That's what the Constitution says, but here we are trying to make some way around a little bit of a connection and some kind of connection, and I don't know what bypassing the Republic Constitution is. We just have super scientific researchers, I won't underestimate anyone, but look at the composition of that group and don't make any more sense about that Western Balkans. I hope that the foreign minister will be quite another person, and then we will no longer have that notion of the Western Balkans in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120819	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120820	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, your colleague's debate highlighted all the geographical problems of this part of Europe, while the slightest word about the legal proposal itself and what this legislative proposal should establish to the institution and what its job should be. If the biggest objection is that English is official, so I interpreted it from your debate, so if that's the biggest observation, then I don't know what we have to discuss at all. Since it is the foundation of decency to always in foreign society that the language that everyone understands, if we have in society someone who does not speak Slavic in Croatian or similar languages, then I think it is appropriate and polite to speak English, especially if we are talking about an international institution. As far as geographical problems are concerned, Croatia cannot isolate political, economic, or scientific from its neighbourhood. And that is why I think that every form of cooperation, above all and scientific, that goes beyond the political and not only important for Croatian researchers but also for the entire region and for the entire region in which Croatia can, should and must be a driver, engine and pillar for which other countries of that Western Balkans or what we will call it, should already be pursued. I think we should be a role model for them, I think we should be a role model for them in science, and that this institution, which is located right on Croatian territory in Split, is a small contribution to Croatia being a leader in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120821	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120822	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I am very pleased to hear you from the same region, so our Slavonia and I am pleased to hear when you say Croatia cannot be isolated and then go to our region of Bajakovo and see how it is isolated, so the border crossing of Bajakovo is closed. And you say Croatia must not and cannot be isolated. Well, he can, by your prime minister's decision, of course. Special conditions are all and the state is a special condition, it is the primary and first condition. And as for the language spoken by the WISE group members, you could also put Esperanto. English I know that English is the most commonly used, now I caricate a little bit but it could have set any one. And I am convinced that both the Kosovars and the Albanians understand very well if not Croatian at least the Serbian language, so they lived and lived with them for hundreds of years, so I think there was no need. But well if people know English as some of our top diplomats do, then they'll agree as well as Mr. Orban and Milanovic, let's say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120823	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120824	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So after listening to the past 4.5 years of the region, region, region, region, etc. It's no wonder that's the name of the law. However, I would still try to concentrate on this law and on the indifference with which the Ministry of Science pushed us this law, which is why I came with a bunch of these papers here because if you don't have the money you can write whatever you want not to do anything about it. However, I took this budget out of it just to show you how someone wants, forgive me for saying, wants to make fools out of parliamentary deputies because if this law hadn't come, then a man wouldn't have given a damn so he wouldn't have been digging through the papers and seeing things. but before we come to this, I therefore do not understand it if it says that what is the objectives of the centre, says that the centre is founded on the mission of promoting the cooperation of scientists within and outside the Western Balkans region with a special emphasis on the scientific diaspora in order to enable the joint use of major scientific infrastructures and the promotion of scientific centres of excellence. Then I don't understand why this could not have been put in Central Europe instead of the Western Balkans because we belong to that part. If the Western Balkans are already being talked about, then what about the Bulgarians, what about the Romanians, why are Slovenia being removed and Albania being inserted. But I'm saying about it, that's how anyone thinks and thinks. However, here it is in this last debate, but there will probably be some amendments tomorrow, apparently, an assessment of the resources needed to implement this law. Like all other laws, this law came past the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and beyond the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. However, colleagues and colleagues look at what it says here, here says that the necessary financial resources will be provided by changing Croatia's state budget for... Ministry of Science, etc. And then they tell you nicely they really did it. And instead of donations of 307,000 kunas they put the cost of employees of 45 thousand kunas, the cost of services not mentioned what I know of 5 thousand kunas and other unremarkable expenses of 8 thousand kunas. Now it's very interesting if it's a centre that's going to be outside the budget of extra budget users, I'll look back a little later on in his way of funding, then there's no way for that centre to plan the funds for salaries and employees or, as you've indicated here for travel expenses, because according to the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia, you can pay someone travel expenses exclusively if they work and if they are employed by you. So that's one thing. However, the greatest pearl colleagues and colleagues of all, because in this document that we discussed and received called the decision on temporary financing for the first three months of the following year, you now have that position at A 818 thousand 049, but now here you have that plan for 2015 is the current donations of 307,000 kuna. But at the same time, you have a plan from 1 to 3 months 2016. 307,000 kuna. If it's said that budget and budget users can't spend more than what they spent in the first three months of last year, then in the position of temporary funding, you can't possibly have 307 thousand kuna without saying that even these 48 thousand kunas, actually 58 thousand kunas to distribute to the three-months, then that's not nearly 307,000 kuna to you. But I'm saying if this amount is rebalanced from 307,000 to 58 thousand kuna, then all this tells you is how seriously someone is taking this law and how seriously it presents it. As for the law itself, says Article 6 of the Committee, the Committee shall consist of one representative and his or her deputy. So one representative, and if he can't, then he's being replaced by a deputy. However, it is very interesting that the same Article 6 states that the Committee shall appoint one co-chairman, chairman and co-chairman cannot be representatives of the same member. Now tell me how it can be chaired and co-chaired from the same country if we say in the same article that on the board, the committee makes up one representative of the country that are members of that committee. ... That's what the law says. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read it to yourself. Look very funny. It's very funny to me when I read it, but that's the way it is. So it's obviously very funny for the deputy minister, so I'll read it to him one more time. The Committee shall consist of one representative and shall say in the same Article 6 of the Committee appointing one co-chairman, chairman and co-chairman shall not be representatives of the same member. Now explain to me what mathematics is. How one man can make two. And then if you want those two creatures to be unable to be chair and co-chair. But I'm saying, obviously so. However, in Article 10, the director, the election committee appointed by the board, says, elects the best candidate for director. Since you haven't defined anywhere if you're already saying that you're choosing the best candidate then you've had to define the conditions that that director must have or move this best candidate and you say that the commission chooses the director and some other act determines which parameters to choose that director. However, what is cutest and cream on cake is financial business in Article 14. And it says in paragraph 2 the amount of contributions that each member should pay shall be determined by the committee at its first constitutive session. Article 3 of the same Article says the amount shall be calculated on the basis of the gross domestic product according to the parity of the purchasing power of each unit individually. Now, the parity of purchasing power towards the European Community or the parity of purchasing power according to what? Because the parity of purchasing power is when you determine one unit and when you say in what percentage for the same money the individual country's resident can buy the same thing. So the parity of purchasing power was about 0.65 compared to Germany. You here have to define what this means is the parity of purchasing power. Why? So if you've seen your colleagues and colleagues' budget then you've seen that this center will be financed from the budget. Thus, this parity of purchasing power is not a harmless figure for us. Why? And when we talk about gross domestic product, so if you take the average salary of Croatia at this time has almost 40% higher average salary than any member mentioned here that will be co-founders of this center. So one document was made ad hoc. I was told yesterday when they asked the HDZ Club's consent to put this on the agenda, that this was a 280m-euro World Bank loan. However, colleagues and colleagues, the key thing is, the centre probably won't be making any more money. How is the parity of purchasing power or gross domestic product that Croatia will be the largest financier of this centre. Also, when the 280m-euro loan from the World Bank is raised tomorrow, it will also be Croatia that will pay the most back. So one such regional, regional project that someone liked, which I think would be five times better if it were a project where members of Central Europe would participate. Because practically the only member who participates in this which is a member of the European Union is the Republic of Croatia. I don't see if we're a member of the European Union, if for years when we've been in negotiations our hair has been lifted from mentioning and pushing into some kind of association of the Western Balkans that formally doesn't exist anywhere why now someone when we're a member of the European Union is pushing us into the Western Balkans again. So we can't support at all this center of the region, of the region or whatever someone's going to call it. And colleagues and colleagues aren't nice to all of us to this laugh they put into our budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120825	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120826	My colleague and I don't have to agree with your debate, but you were still talking about the measure of things, although, from your point of view, even though you couldn't resist this syntagma and I would say the geographical concept of the Western Balkans. But that bothered you, too, and you said the same thing about it. However, in order for the Balkans to go to the European balcony, I think that geography cannot be changed but can change the Balkans in the heads. Or politics do one thing, speak the other, think the third. And I think you'll agree to that, too. So it's not a problem for us, the problem is still someone's thinking and the Balkans in their heads. I'm saying I believe we'll end up agreeing to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120827	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120828	It's a key problem for me that there is no respect for elemental things in this law. So I told you what was done to us in the budget, you as a lawyer know well if you have one representative in one body that then that representative can't behave two functions, especially if one changes the other. So I was talking about it. I was talking about Croatia's potential financial commitments as the most developed country. And secondly, I really think that Croatia is a Central European country, historically, geographically, culturally, whatever you want. And frankly, without the intention of insulting any country mentioned here, many of these countries practically share thousands of light years and cultural and historical years and so on, we are far closer to one of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria. I was talking about it. So the syntagma of the Western Balkans has nothing to do with what you've been talking about, but I really think that we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament should eliminate someone who keeps pushing us here because we really belong to Central Europe, and that's where we really belong, and I think that's where we agree. Because if we're being pushed into the Balkans, why didn't they push other members of the European Union? Why is Croatia the only member of the European Union in this association? But again, I'm far more bothered by what's written inside and what's written in the budget rebalancing and what's written in the temporary funding plan. It bothers me far more. And this Western Balkans is just a consequence, someone's thinking, you're thinking your way, I'm thinking mine. You may not mind this, I do because I believe that Croatia is a Central European country and I think it should stand in all documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120829	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120830	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, not only Central Europe, but the Mediterranean, too, to be content with her colleague Ingrid, so she lives in the Mediterranean. Therefore, Croatia has always been part of Central Europe and Central European culture and traditions in its continental part, and the marine part, so to speak, is a part of the Mediterranean. And they don't play, they don't kick in Tuzla, but they're running in France both in Spain and in Croatia and Dalmatia, so they're playing ballots or buttocks, so that's it, but it's just a small segment and a small example. What I wanted to give you a replica is that we are, in fact, naive to these negotiations, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia or we are quick-tracked, and then we actually look at it the way you saw it economically, the financial results and the possible consequences of such a contract. Therefore, if this is related to loans and the World Bank, according to this parity principle, Croatia will indeed bear the largest share and return of these loans, and I am surprised that this is how the negotiations are being negotiated. Or it doesn't matter the public good, but it will have to accommodate several members or supporters of Kukuriku in... Split is where it is so that something is created that we have 5-6, 10 jobs in Split but that will determine those who are currently in power. If that's the reason, then it's both pathetic and pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120831	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120832	Comrade Grubisic, it is undeniable that countries and people from these areas will cooperate, work, so it is something indisputable. However, the issue in this whole thing is that it wants to show something great that will cost Croatia the most. Let's look at the average salary in Bosnia, what is the average salary in Serbia, what is the average salary in Kosovo, what is the average salary in Albania, what is the average salary in Macedonia, and then it will become clear if GDP and the parity of purchasing power are the basis for calculating how much someone should participate in all this together, that this trap will be the most in Croatia. Yes, the World Bank finances projects like this, but the World Bank doesn't give away money. And what's more important about the World Bank's loan, the World Bank gives a loan to reverse liquidity, but in order to get that loan, you have to implement certain reforms, but that doesn't mean they're financing this very project. And that's why I say the HDZ Club can't support this, first because there's an unseriously written text inside, I've mentioned just a few things. The second thing, this joy they wrote in the budget, and the third thing I repeat is the syntagma of the Western Balkans is something that has tried to impose on us, push us when they try to prevent us from entering the European Union, waiting for the rest of the countries in the region to make progress, so that in the package we will all go together and that should simply be said. However, Croatia has made this step itself and we have helped with the documents that we have given to the countries in the neighbourhood, which we have paid a few million euros for translation, shown a good will to help them and that we want to be a leader in the region, it is undeniable, but when we do things like this if we tell other countries then I simply think that instead of the Western Balkans should be Central Europe so it can add what you said to the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120833	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of replicas and responses to the replica. And now final address will be given to the deputy minister of science, education and sports, respected Roko Andricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120834	I thank you, Mr. President. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to thank you for your discussion, and if I may, just a few, I have to say... A few information that should have been corrected, and if I can give the honourable representative Grubisic something about the Sava Commission, which is not the subject of this law, and given the circumstances, I was involved in it so that we could agree immediately at the beginning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the Western Balkans phrase began as part of this project in 2009 at a meeting in Sarajevo. The initiative was from Commissioner Potočnik from Slovenia. The Member States of the European Union were not even scheduled to participate in this project. Croatia was not a member then. That's when it all started, and for six years it worked so that this law would finally see the light of day. This is not about any lending, not the World Bank or any other international financial institutions. This is about Member States' donations, the European Commission's funds and the regional Centre for Co-operation in this area. In parallel to why this project was launched in 2009, there is a parallel Adriatic-Ionian initiative where we are also members, parallelly there is a Danube strategy where we are also members and thought that this kind of project, this kind of programme, is exactly going in between these two strategies and that it fills that gap. The donations to be made by the Member States of this WISE are from 10 to 28 000 euros a year. It's participation. All other assets come from donations, not credit funds. That's what the contract says. Therefore, I see no reason for this project to have any major budgetary burden tomorrow. As far as the ratification process itself is concerned, it also states in the contract that this centre takes effect when at least 4 countries produce ratification, of course Croatia must be the first because the country hosts a centre that will be located in Croatia. An estimate of funds from potential donors, from Norway, Sweden, Finland, the Czech Republic, Switzerland which have already officially indicated the desire to donate, including the European Commission and the Regional Co-operation Centre, is estimated at $200 million. And now just one little depression, but I have to say that because I was personally involved, the Sava Commission, the Honorable Representative Grubisic, the Sava Commission, met very many times 10 years ago, I was personally probably at 20 meetings of the Sava Commission as professor. University of Split where we did projects for the Sava Commission. Over 20m euros were channeled by the Sava Commission from the University of Osijek, the University of Zagreb, the University of Rijeka and the University of Split. It has its own task, of course, within the four countries that are officially members of the Sava Commission and I think it fulfils its mission as established. I hope and certainly believe that this WISE project will also offer opportunities for young scientists in the Republic of Croatia to withdraw in cooperation in this area and beyond. After all, that was the goal of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120835	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120836	Mr. Deputy, I was talking about concrete things. I was talking about the Ministry of Science's budget. The budget of the Ministry of Science is not donations. Donations will go directly to the center's jury account. I have quoted to you the provisions of the law which you are the proposing, and these are the criteria by which the founding countries will finance this, given that you, in your reasoning of the bill, have not pointed out at all what financial resources they are. So, I heard that story yesterday, from a donation through the World Bank of 280 million. But you won't get 200 million donations in madness from anyone. Why? Because it's known exactly how much donations are made, it's known that they go and it's known that rich countries as donors place them. There may have been actions in Croatia since the demining process and so on, which were far more attractive for donor funding, so there was not so much money. It was the first and second year, and later, unfortunately, it disappeared. And so these projects here, if this center is based on this cooperation, is not in a position to earn yourself some money, forget any donations. But I'm interested, unfortunately you didn't answer me, what about the World Bank loan story that would finance that? ... Okay, but you still haven't answered what amount it is since you wrote 307,000 here for the first three months of the following year in temporary funding. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you wrote in the budget, not me. And that's 40 thousand euros. And you were talking about 20 thousand euros at the annual level. So it's disproportionate to what you're saying and what you're writing. I just mentioned what you wrote. So, without any add-on, fiction or anything, I was just reading what it says in the documents that officially came out of your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120837	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120838	Thank you very much. I'll start with this second part you added to the Sava Commission. So, you're saying that this commission was meeting, and Sava is not watering in Croatia beyond the parish, I'm talking about when we're leaving Belgrade, is it? So, until the parish, it's watery and then it's no longer watery. So, save's trough even in spite of the great meetings, you say so. I asked the Foreign Ministry, the same Sava Commission was in charge of the demarcation of Croatia and Serbia on the waterways, the Danube first of all, and on the matter of the Sarengrad Ade which is still today under the jurisdiction of the Backo Palanic Police, not the Croatian police. People from Croatian territory, whether they Croats or Serbs, cannot come to the Charengrad Ada without being searched and stopped by the grandmother's palanic or duchy or Serbian police. Have you solved what you've done? I got an answer from the Foreign Ministry that this Sava Commission only met once. Maybe about that question, Charengrad ade. Of the 20 million euros you're talking about, I really don't know, but all I know is that Sava in Slavonski Brod isn't a waterboat, that's what boats, etc. who have any deeper gauze. And some kind of tourism on Savi with passenger ships coming from Germany, starting from the North Sea, from the Baltic countries, and you have all the canals and rivers that are completely watery, only tourist ships can get to Slavonski Brod. And that's barely if it's high water. If it's a little lower there's no sailing away from the parish. So you understand that. Sava is, in some ways, dead as far as the river is concerned, and could have been very, very profitable both for transport and for tourism and for a number of other things. But it is not a matter of this point of the agenda, but I also ask you and everyone else who is in the future government of gentlemen from the European Union says that there is no more Western Balkans and no more Western Balkan states, it is only a geographical concept and it has always been the Western Balkans and that the Drina River was the border of the Western and Eastern Balkans and no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120839	Thank you very much. You're in contradiction. Is it there or isn't it? Even if it was a geographical term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120840	So you have Western Europe and Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120841	Well, of course we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120842	There's West America, East America.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-24-0.u120843	So we've exhausted the list of the defendants for the hearing. We've exhausted a list of those reported for replication and reply to the replica. The debate on the text of the law just ended. We'll vote tomorrow on this final bill. Now let me let you know how we'll work tomorrow. We'll start at 9:00 with the usual time... I'll wait for you here at 9:00 neatly and wait for which topics you'll expose by 9:00. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And at 9.30 we will begin the session with a report on the mandate of the Immunity Commission, and we will conclude the session by voting on a proposal for a decision to dissolve the Croatian Parliament. ... I agree, we put it on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did we put it on? Did you suggest it? ... He's proposing to Ivan Shuker and I'm taking it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It went into procedure, you saw the decision, so on the first one is the Immunity Commission, the first point. ... Why don't you vote this out? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come tomorrow neatly to finish our mandate, not with full credibility, but with the work of the Croatian Parliament. Even the parliament's mandate will not be completed, it will cease within four years. And we all have a mandate until the new Parliament is established. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00, all right. Final draft law confirming the Treaty on the Centre for Research and Innovation of the Western Balkans WISE, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 922. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the vote 81 votes for, no abstentions, 28 votes against P.Z. law. No. 922 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
