ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u1	Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs and distinguished ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, Excellency. We wait for all newly elected representatives to register so that we can have all those who have entered the Assembly building and at the Hall of the Croatian Parliament can determine the presence of representatives and representatives in the hall. Thank you very much. The Honorable and esteemed ladies and gentlemen in the hall are present at 151 MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have given me the honour and honour of opening the first constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament, the 8th convocation, and to chair it temporarily until the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. Congratulations on the election, on an important and responsible duty, representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic. . I welcome all former presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, present members of the government, ministers and ministers, vice-presidents and vice-presidents. . [[Applause.]] I welcome the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Jasna Omjec. . [[Applause.]] President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, respected Branko Hrvatin and present representatives of the judicial authority. . [[Applause.]] The Attorney General of the Honorable Dink Cwitan. . [[Applause.]] I welcome General Zbor Draga Lovrić, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, former presidents and vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, present party leaders represented in the Croatian Assembly who are not representatives. [[Applause.]] I welcome the monsa. Enca Rodinis Secretary General of the Croatian Bishop's Conference and I would like to thank the President of the Bishop's Conference, Bishop Željić, for having apologized and wished for the successful and democratic work of the new Croatian Parliament. I welcome the monsa. Mijo Gorski, assistant bishop of Zagreb, the tall... Mr Porfirija Metropolitanta Zagrebačko-Ljubljanski, Mufti Prof. dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Aziz ef. Hasanović, president of the Mešihat Islamic Community in the Republic of Croatia, Mr Lucian Moša Prelević, chief rabbi of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb and rabbis of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Dr. Kotel Da-Don rabbi of the Jewish religious community Bet Israel, Mr. Željko Frost, on behalf of the Federation of Baptist Churches in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Branko Berić, chief Vicar of the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Kiro Velinski protoire of the President of the Christian Orthodox Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Emil Tsanov, Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Maria Dučić of the Church of the Whole Gospel, Mr. Jasmin Milić Bishop of the Protestant Reformed Christian Church in the Republic. I welcome Mr. Professor. Damir Borasa, Croatia The Old Catholic Church. I welcome Mrs. Attorney General to the Republic of Croatia. I welcome the academic of the respected Zvonko Kusic, president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. I welcome ladies and gentlemen rectors and rectors of Croatian universities. I welcome the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and Mr. Mayor of Croatian County. I welcome representatives of Homeland War associations, union representatives, all present representatives of economic, cultural, sports, public institutions and other present guests at the session. I welcome the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia at the head of the Mons. Julie's Kabore's dispatcher. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the provision of Article 98(1), paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 5 and 6. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to call elections for representatives at the Croatian Parliament held on 8 November this year 2015. Elections at polling stations at diplomatic consular offices took place on Saturday 7 November 2015 and on Sunday 8 November 2015. The National Election Commission announced on 23 November 2015 the final official results of the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. On 23 November 2015, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on the constitutionality and legality of the elections carried out. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall be the President of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 98(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that according to the State Election Commission Report of 23 November 2015 151 MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament. According to the records submitted before the beginning of the session, we waited administratively, a little late, so it had to be, so far, i.e. all 151 elected representatives and MPs are present. I would like to inform you that MP Mirko Raskovic resigned as deputy mayor of Knin County on condition. As the MP stated that the resignation takes effect on the day of the Croatian Parliament's constitution, I warn that the MP cannot vote to elect the president of the parliament because he is still acting as deputy mayor. Good afternoon. Respected and esteemed ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests and guests in accordance with Article 4(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been my duty and it is my honor to open a constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament and to chair it temporarily until the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament of 8th term. I warmly welcome you all, once again. Congratulations on the election for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Let me particularly welcome the President of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic. . Stjepan Mesic, former president of the Republic of Croatia. . [[Applause.]] Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected Mr. Zoran Milanovic, and present members of the government. . [[Applause.]] The term of office for the assembly of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of Honored Tihomir Oreshkovic. . [[Applause.]] President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Jasna Omjec. [[Applause.]] President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, respected Branko Hrvatin and present representatives of the judicial authority. . Respected Attorney General Dinko Cwitan. . [[Applause.]] I welcome General Zbor Draga Lovrić, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, former presidents and vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament and present members of the political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament who are not elected. . [[Applause.]] I welcome the monsa. [[Applause.]] Jelimir Puljic, president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. . , the model Cardinal Josip Bozanić, the archbishop of Zagreb. . [[Applause.]] Mons. [[Applause.]] Enca Rodinis Secretary General of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, High... Mr Porfirija Metropolis of the Zagreb-Ljubljansko Serbian Orthodox Church, Mirsada Efendi... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on behalf of the Meshihat Islamic Community in the Republic of Croatia, Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fired by Kraus President of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Lucian Moša Prelević is the main rabbi of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb and rabbis of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. . Mr. Dr. [[Applause.]] Kotel Da-Don rabbi of the Jewish religious community Bet Israel, Mr. Željko Frost, on behalf of the Federation of Baptist Churches in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Branko Berić, the main Vicar of the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Drago Mojsesh of the President of the Christian Adventistic Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Damir Špoljarić of the President of the Evangelical Pentecost Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Kiro Velinski protoire of the Macedonian Orthodox Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Emil Tsanov, Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Maria Dučić of the Church of the Holy Gospel, Mr. Jasmin Milić Bishop of the Protestant reformed Christian Church in the Republic of Croatia. . I welcome all the lawyers, then respected academicist Zvonko Kusic, president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. . [[Applause.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of Croatian universities headed by Prof. Dr. [[Applause.]] Damir Boras, president of the Rector's choir. I welcome the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and Mr. Mayor of Croatian County. . I welcome the members of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia at the head of a diplomatic assembly of apostolic nuncia in the Republic of Croatia mons. [[Applause.]] Alessandro D'Erric. ./ Give it up. I welcome the representatives of the Croatian Defence Association, representatives of the unions, all present representatives of economic, cultural, sports and public institutions, and other present guests and guests at the constitutive session in the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the provision of Article 98(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 5 and 6. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to call elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament held on 8 and 15 November 2015. [[Applause]] Elections at polling stations at the diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia were held on Saturday 7 November 2015 and on Sunday 8 November 2015. The National Election Commission announced on 23 November 2015 the final official results of the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decided on 23 November 2015 on the constitutionality and legality of the elections. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall be the President of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 98(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that according to the State Election Commission report of 23 November 2015 151 MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament. According to the records and records submitted before the start of this session, 151 MPs and MPs are present. Dear MPs and respected representatives, guests and guests, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the end of the 7th term of the Croatian Parliament to give you a few sentences. So by the will of citizens, Croatian citizens, the Croatian Parliament is composed of different political options, views and visions. Democracy rests on several important principles. The first is clear political goals, the second is that no one who participates in political life can seek only the achievement of their political interests, third one must lead and watch, take care and look at the whole and future of that whole. For us representatives of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament Croatia is what brings us together or what should bring us together and be at the top of our priorities. That is why I expect democratic procedures to use democratic values that allow everyone to make their views known and to respect democratic institutions, democratic values, minority rights and their interests in democratic decision-making. I ask all MPs and MPs to respect the integrity of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament so that we can talk and decide in a transparent manner in front of the citizens. Democracy requires patience, tolerance, understanding and public control of all processes whether they happen in parties or among parties because everything must take place in favour of the citizens and they are the ones who make the final decision. The constitution as the highest legal act of a state, so the Croatian state, if it wants to live democratic values, is not an act of opposition or position, but a vision of the rule of law and that is, by the highest democratic principles of the rule of law. We should stick to it as the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in favour of the general, common, present and future objectives. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, given what you have presented in your introduction so far on this agenda point, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u5	Dear colleague, HDZ Club, neither has the Assembly been established nor the HDZ Club It's not even open the agenda, let's move on. ... [[Intruder: We can look as MPs.]] Please, nice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We've got it covered. Is anyone, I repeat, any of the promoters? He doesn't want to. Please, I'm opening a debate. ... And if you'll excuse me, thank you very much, I'll read the proposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Based on Articles 4 and 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament I submit a proposal for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. They're proposing undersigned MPs, undersigned MPs, you've got them. 55 MPs are proposing for the president of the Croatian Parliament Prof. Dr. Robert Podlenjak's representative in the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. Dear MPs and MPs are waiting for all MPs to get the proposal on the bench so that they can see in material form who it is and who the promoter is. Allow me while you wait for me to address you as the President of the Croatian Parliament on this occasion. So the will of Croatian Parliament citizens is made up of different political views and visions. Democracy rests on several important principles. First, there must be clear political goals and no one involved in political life can seek only their own political interests. Everyone has to look at the whole future of that whole. Croatia is what brings us together or what should bring us together and be at the top of our priorities. That is why I expect democratic procedures to use democratic values that allow everyone to make their views known and to respect the institutions and values in democratic decision-making, as well as minority rights and the rights of minorities of all. Therefore, I ask the representatives and MPs that, by respecting the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, they could make a transparent decision before the citizens when voting on the proposal. And I would also like to add that the whole election process has not democratically exhausted all possibilities. I want you to decide according to this on the President of the Croatian Parliament. Please have you consulted the proposal? Can we approach the vote? I ask the MPs and MPs to insert a card into the slot you have in your seat. The card has to do with the number associated with your name on the registration. This will press the button that suits you, so for or against, decide on the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. ... It's over. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. ... We closed the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. How could I not? [[You can hear the intruder.]] I gave the debate, no one answered. Don't yell, just don't yell it's not a practice in the Croatian Parliament. Here is the ultimate rule of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It is the mother and daughter of the democratic principle of rule of law. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u6	Mr. President, I think the candidate you proposed first needs to be shown whether or not he agrees, whether he accepts the candidacy or does not accept it. And we can't vote on something that we don't know, we can't hear a man accepting that candidacy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u7	Thank you very much. It is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and the candidate is present and there is, I'm sure he knows how to express his will. And I'm sure he was consulted by those who put the signatures on him, so I mean, he knows it all. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Podlonjak, candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u8	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, as stated on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, we have said that we will accept the candidacy for the President of the Croatian Parliament if it is supported by the two largest political options each of which has more than a third of Croatian MPs. And at this point, we don't really know if it's a fact that she hasn't spoken about it, nor have the MPs, or a representative of the Socialist Coalition Club, said. We expect them to be clear about this, and if they are also on the proposal submitted in that case, I personally accept the candidacy and we will vote in favour of that proposal if that is the proposal and the position of the MPs of the Patriot coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u9	Dear Representative, the proposal is addressed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is shared with MPs and everything we can ask for the representatives to be heard. If you have any different needs, I can't please you. I can't please you to open a debate now who will. Each one has his own responsibility and each one, according to his own conscience, decides. There's no imperial mandate here. You had to set this up first. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u10	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the usual rule was in this House that before the constitutional session, representatives of political options were found and agreed on a technique to run this session, it is the first time, and now it is evident and why, because it wants to do something under the grain, that rule is broken. So even colleagues who are here in the House several times, and especially younger colleagues simply don't know how to put themselves in this situation. I have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure for not allowing us to speak as elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And it is not good that you responded in this way to the newly elected colleague of the Dolnjak because you as chairman should have helped him resolve this and not that the request was submitted on behalf of the Rules of Procedure. Because look at colleagues and colleagues, very interesting that this proposal was signed only by representatives of the SDP, so they did not sign representatives from that list from which Mr. Podolnjak was elected to the Croatian Parliament. This best speaks of what he wants done today at this constitutive session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u11	Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure that's... Who will sign, who won't, is not, all MPs in the Croatian Parliament can sign for anyone, you know that. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] This isn't your first time in Croatia. Shime Petrina, MP. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u12	Thank you. But it has not yet been said by Mr. Podolnjak whether he accepts it or he does not accept it. The acceptance of the candidacy for President-in-Office of the Parliament cannot be conditional on the Rules of Procedure. So I suggest that the gentleman be manifested, he can't condition it. So to say, did he accept that one-third... Or he doesn't accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u13	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u14	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, that you have given me a break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which I asked for some of this, we could have avoided. In the same way that you interpret the duration of the term of office of all parliamentary representatives, including your own, to continue until the constitutional session and the constitution of the new Parliament, then the mandate of the working bodies that you did not allow to declare the proposal that you delivered to us on the benches. If we had the opportunity to speak, we would have avoided the unpleasant situations in which you have led us to the wrong and malicious interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which in itself is contradictory enough, and I will not speak at all about who you are and how you have recognised the right to vote at the constitutive session in violation of the Rules of Procedure of this same House. So we can tell you now and without a break, we're not for the proposal you put on the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u15	Thank you very much. For your sake, again, for all the representatives and guests and the Croatian public, I greatly respect your opinion, but this time I disagree with him. I don't agree with him. I'll tell you why. Because it is a practice to establish a new assembly with their own will in the Croatian Parliament, and political actors have always come with proposals that have been defined. You could have done that now. I'd be much happier if there had come a defined proposal one, two, three and for the working bodies but that's not my role. My role is to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. And that's all I care about today, today and always. Dear Representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u16	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for the support of those MPs who proposed me. But as I have said more than once, I will accept this proposal only if it is the result of the consensus in the Croatian Parliament, because my party has only 15 representatives and therefore we insist on consensus. Since he's not here right now, I'm gonna have to remove the president's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u17	Can you directly say you don't want to be, withdrawing your candidacy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u18	So, I'm pulling,.../Speakers speaking out loud, of course./... Yeah, I don't accept in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u19	Please, allow me. It's over. The honourable representative Podolnjak did not accept the candidacy of the group of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. By doing so, I must interrupt this session and schedule a follow-up when the majority who will be able to propose the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I hope also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 10.35 hours. For the Croatian Parliament to be established in accordance with Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the presence of most MPs, should be joined by the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have established that the right to submit a proposal at the constitutional session for the election of President-in-Office of the Parliament has at least one third of the MPs. One proposal from 79 elected MPs was submitted for the election of the Croatian Parliament president. The proposal is to elect academicist Zeljko Reiner as president of the Croatian Parliament. Would anyone like to explain this proposal? Yeah. Dearly elected representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u21	... Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow academics Željko Reiner graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, where a regular professor in permanent calling is today. [[Specially enabled.]] He is a regular member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He is a member of the Royal Medical Society in London and a series of the most prestigious institutions. In the world there are the most quoted scientists in the field of medicine from Croatia. From the first days he participated as a volunteer in the Homeland War, why he was decorated with the highest medals. In the 1990s, he was first the Deputy Minister of Health and later the Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia. He was also a member of the 7th Assembly, in which he acted as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal to elect academic Željko Reiner as president of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by MPs of the Patriot coalition and the Most. I call on all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal and to show an appropriate degree of community and dignity in the highest representative and legislative body of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u22	Thank you, too. ... I'm opening a debate. [[Applause.]] There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Before we approach the vote, please determine the quorum. I'll warn you that you have the cards you got, will register the presence of any whether you involved in, against or abstention. They can all check, please check all present representatives to see if their cards are working. Yeah. Let's see what's going on. Exactly 151 elected MP confirmed his presence in the Croatian Parliament. Now we're going to approach the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect representative Željko Reiner as president of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. ... I find that most of the votes 88 for, 62 votes have been abstentioned and 1 vote against elected Croatian Parliament president, respected representative Zeljko Reiner. [[Applause.]] I declare that, on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament was established at the first meeting of the established number of representatives present and the election of the Croatian Parliament president. Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to pay our respects to our country immediately. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – I invite all MPs and MPs, all guests, to pay tribute to the fallen country for a minute of silence, for the freedom of modern, democratic Croatia, the heroes of the Homeland War, the defenders of Croatia and all civilians of war. - A minute of silence - Thank them and eternal glory! Praise them! Congratulations to Croatian Parliament President Zeljko Reiner on the election. I call upon him to address the audience and then to take his place at the Presidential table and continue to chair. Please, Mr. President, would you like to speak? Here you go. President of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u23	Thank you very much. Dear high-ranking guests and guests, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who voted for me and elected me to this important function for the Croatian state and all its citizens. However, I would also like to thank those who did not vote for me because their votes or not to vote show that today, after so many centuries, Croatia is not only an independent member of the EC but also a truly democratic country in which everyone can free and without fear in which we have lived to express our views and opinions even if they do not agree with the majority's opinion. This is a achievement to which we must be grateful to the founders of the modern Croatian state under the leadership of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, but also all 15000 brave defenders who have defended her from aggression by defending her from aggression because they have not only allowed the independence of the Croatian state in their blood but also its democratic, parliamentary order. This achievement allowed me to paraphrasise Abraham Lincoln so that their death would not be in vain, but to bear witness to God’s rebirth of freedom and that the rule of the people, of the people, and of the people would never disappear from the face of the earth. For this, we must also thank hundreds of thousands of surviving defenders, especially wartime wartime disabled people, of whom some also here have made it possible for us to decide freely in this House today on all matters of importance for our people. I am deeply convinced that democracy among other things should be based on the culture of dialogue and discussion, based on arguments, rejection of exclusion and pluralism of opinion and openness to different views, which does not mean, however, that we can, necessarily, agree with these views. I've always believed that what's contained in a sentence attributed to Voltaire "I disagree with what you're saying, but I will defend your right to say it." In this spirit, I would also like to thank my predecessor, Mr. Josip Leka, for the previous conduct of the Croatian Parliament during the last term. I know it wasn't always easy for him and that he rarely had doubts, and even a different opinion from the one he had to take out of this place, and I'm aware that that task was therefore more difficult for him, but also for the team. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we must never forget and especially at this time when we are part of the European community of the people, that the Croatian Parliament is not only a guardian of the values and democracy and the highest expression of the democratic will of the people but also a key institution to preserve the identity of Croatian people and Croatian national interests. The Parliament is and must be the concierge of patriotism, of love for the fundamental values of Croatian people, of its history, of tradition, of family care, of religion, of Croatian language, of culture for everything that makes us who we are and how we differ from others but at the same time it must be a firm guarantee of respect for all rights and values of those who are not Croats but are Croatian citizens. Respect for others and different, especially those who are in the minority, therefore more sensitive and vulnerable and guaranteeing their rights is one feature of democracy and justice society, and this is also an important task of this Croatian Parliament. The aim and obligation of all of us is that this Croatian State Parliament, that you have heard well, I intend to propose when conditions are obtained that it is once again called the place of culture of dialogue in which the elected representatives of Croatian citizens will be deeply aware of their responsibilities to the citizens who chose them for their better life, for their greater freedoms, for their better future, for their happiness and happiness for their children and grandsons. Ensuring the balance between freedom of the market and social approach, and solidarity in particular with the needy, powerless and sick must be the foundation of Croatian society if it wants to be happy and successful. The democracy of society and social responsibility are not and should not remain just mere mere slogans, but we here in this Chamber, in this building we must build by persevering agreements, establishing a constant trust among those who represent different sides, beliefs and attitudes. In fact, the differences in attitudes in civilised environments, and I earnestly hope that ours must not mean enmity and destruction but can and must be simply different ways and ways to reach the common goal of the best for the people we represent. One of these goals is undoubtedly that the state emerges from the deep economic crisis it is in, but also from an even deeper social, moral and valuable crisis in which our society is also located. In order for us to do so, we will have to make a difficult decision from the first days, but I assure you that they will be able to live and be better for everyone only if we make them together. We are all aware of the necessity of structural reforms and the necessary courage to accept the risks of their implementation, so the commonity is something that Croatia really needs right now, and I hope that the differences, including the passions that have come to terms during the pre-election campaign, can and must turn into our strength, and that the knowledge of the need for a common fight for the better future of our citizens is not only in the deep consciousness of every parliamentary representative and representative but also in the consciousness of every citizen and citizen. We must make sure that Croatia is not only a rule of law but also a fair state, which is much more important. After years of hopelessness, we must restore hope and optimism to Croatian citizens, we must give them a smile back on their faces, we must give them back their pride. This is our obligation to sit in chairs in this hall and we must be aware of these obligations at any moment. Splits in Croatian society, mainly ideological nature based on long or less long ago, must no longer be the brakes of the further development of Croatian society. This does not mean that we must ever forget, however, our children and grandchildren must know their history and no one must deny them the real truth about it. But we must not continue to live in it or continue to find excuses for today and even less for future failures. I am deeply convinced that if the various political options make enough good will and effort we can reach a consensus on the most important key issues of Croatian society that have their own repercussions on years and generations that come and cannot solve and achieve only one government or just one assembly of parliaments. We all have a responsibility to do so because we can, especially if, as George Washington said, we persist in good faith and righteousness. It can be done unusually that I, as the President-elect of the Croatian Parliament, and someone who has always earnestly advocated parliamentary democracy, am now quoting one king, not one of the great Croatian or foreign statesmen who have held their famous speeches in parliaments. However, this led me to the moment of history in which our country is located, which has characteristics not only of economic but also of a somewhat political crisis. In fact, 35 years ago, when the parliamentary system in Spain was perhaps in the most serious crisis at the time, Spanish King Juan Carlos I said, "Let's try to protect and strengthen what is crucial if we don't want to put ourselves in danger of losing our foundations." We have to wonder if we've really done everything we can to make us feel proud. I want to call for the thinking of those who hold in their hands the leadership of the state, they must stand in defense of democracy and general good above their limitations and passing personal, group and party interests. I think those words must be permanently echoed in the ears of all of us sitting here and being an important reminder to us. We who belong, as the media like to call it, the political elite, which, with the rest of the elites in society, from the economics and beyond, wanted to acknowledge it or not have greater social power, must not forget that we have a far greater responsibility. We simply need to be aware of these social responsibilities at all times. We must use it very carefully, carefully and exclusively for the benefit of citizens because citizens have no direct influence on politics or on the capital that you want to have. It must not happen that, as Dr. Ante Starcevic, I quote "people who think they have some other benefit or purpose than the benefit and purpose of the entire people. It is our responsibility and obligation to offer Croatia new ideals and values based on the belief that credible political decisions can only lead to development on the basis of a fair and clear vision but also the courage to achieve this vision by implementing structural changes because it is the only guarantee that this will ensure a better and happier life for all Croatian citizens. This will accomplish what our first president Dr. Franjo Tuđman, to turn Croatia not only into a free, independent and democratic European country but also into a country of prosperity, a prosperous country of happy and successful people. On that journey, God has guarded you, preserved us this Croatian congregation, and seen us with wisdom and courage to make the best decisions. Saved all MPs and MPs, all Croatians and Croats, all Croatian citizens and citizens and the only and eternal Croatia! I congratulate everyone with all my heart Merry Christmas and a lot of success in the new year! Thank you very much. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-03-0.u24	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, please take the honorary position of the President of the Croatian Parliament and even more honorable Croatian Parliament institutions, be happy with you! . [[Applause.]]
