ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117398	Dear MPs and respected fellow MPs, good morning, welcome to the representative's bench. We have called for an extraordinary, 19th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I welcome you warmly, wish you successful work. I particularly welcome the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with his associates. I suggest we set the agenda. With the call for the session, you received a proposal for the agenda from the authorised applicant. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under points 2 and 3. The proposed agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under points 1 and 4 of the proposed agenda are proposed. Do any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117399	Your Honor, Mr. President, I must say at first that it is actually a shame that this House, the assembly of the Parliament, has passed four-fifths of the law by emergency procedure. Not only are these not needed to be brought by an emergency procedure but I would like to draw attention to the Constitutional Court report, which has said clearly, quote: "The common practice of passing laws by emergency procedure violates the very essence of parliamentaryism. Such practice confirms the importance of democratic procedures and the obligation of their existence and prevents public debates on important social issues, celebrating this and the basis for developing and improving dialogue culture without which there is no democratic society.". Therefore, bad practice throughout this session, imposed by most of the assembly, wants to continue, there is no reason for an emergency procedure. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117400	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I agree with you that it's a bad practice, I just don't agree that that deadline is only in this government, but from, I'd say from the very adoption of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we will adopt and vote on the laws proposed under the emergency procedure. Please determine the quorum first. I think my colleagues and fellow MPs checked in. Let's see the presence, 107 deputies are in the hall, we've got enough hands and advocates and MPs to be able to decide all things. Let's go first. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, P.Z. No. 893? Please vote on the urgency of the procedure. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote by 67 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, 40 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, P.Z. No. 893. Second. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, P.Z. No. 896. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes of 66 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, 42 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, P.Z. No. 896. Does any of the colleagues have an objection to inclusion in the agenda of the consumer bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z. No. 811? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives of the agenda are hereby established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I should now read the set agenda, please allow me not to read it, but to realize that the agenda is established. No objections to such a request? Thank you very much. We can now cross the established agenda to the first point. ... We're listening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117401	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you are, and now you have called upon the Rules of Procedure, which I say you have violated by calling this session, an extraordinary session, and you have made several failures. The one for which I have responded refers to Article 220 of our Rules of Procedure, which states that you will convene an extraordinary session at the request of the Government, which must be given in writing and reasoned. Reasoned on why an extraordinary session is required and what is so important is to pass as a law, which could not wait 7 days for a regular session of the Assembly. We have received government materials, we have received proposals of laws that are so urgent that the government itself proposes to enter into force on 1 January 2016. On the other hand, the government has not explained any reasons for the extraordinary session but has easily stated that it is seeking an extraordinary session to discuss these legal texts. This is not the meaning of the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I claim that by calling the sitting in this way you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I will not speak of other matters such as the issue of the current morning held before each session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117402	Thank you very much, dear colleague Davorin Mlakar. I reject the objection both, and the government is in line with its work plan and by asking you out of the opposition that it is necessary to speed up the work on projects worth Croatian society, Croatian citizens and has requested an extraordinary session with precise agenda points. As regards the current morning of the representative, it is neither foreseen by the Rules of Procedure nor in practice when it was accompanied by an extraordinary session. Thank you very much for your suggestions, I've answered you. And now we'd start doing as we announced. Thank you very much. So 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 893 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić and Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Here's your esteemed vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117424	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. You are facing an amendment to the Social Care Act, which increases social benefits and introduces among other things another new compensation for those who are beneficiaries of social assistance. Before I begin to explain certain provisions of this law, I would like to say that in the last 3.5 years that the Government of Zoran Milanovic has inherited a budget in which the deficit was extremely large, we have entered the procedure for reducing the budget deficit and every year the budget decreases. Despite this reduction in the social care system, benefits not only have not been reduced but the fees have increased twice in the government's term of office of Zoran Milanovic's social benefits are increasing. For the first time in the first year of our term of office when we introduced order in the social care system in a way that the employees of our welfare centres had audited all users and their rights and a number of people who had no rights and did not meet certain conditions had lost the right to help. The money that we received in this way, so the money that was previously poured out to those who were not needed and who were not legally entitled to it, was directed at the singles who are the most vulnerable because of their lack of cumulation of any rights, so they have no additional right to the family because they live on their own. Then in the first year of our term, we raised 200 kuna for their fee. Today, after 3.5 years of office, we raise social benefits for the second time. This time, it's about raising child benefits for single parents and for those who are incompetent at work. Namely, it is about our social benefits users who are over 65 years old, who are incompetent, who will receive 120 kunas more than 1.10, and also about children of single parents who will receive the same amount of such compensation. 11090 people live alone, so it's a category somewhere around 11,000 people who are over 65 years old and are incompetent and also 3100 children who live in single families, so they have very difficult living conditions and we think that this increase of 15% will still help them raise their standard of living. These coins are therefore a consequence of not increasing the items in the budget but of re-evaluation within the system which through public procurement, through an application that has fully survived in the social care system and which for the first time can withdraw 8 data showing a complete blood count of our users. This makes it easier for employees in welfare centres, but also to reduce the possibility of any manipulation, although of course they can always be in systems that are still much more orderly than in the Republic of Croatia. In this information sense, there are always 5 to 10% fraud and manipulation. But indeed here every day the system is being updated and manipulation is being reduced to the least possible measure. The new fee we're introducing is the fee we've been working on for the same three and a half years. He helped us out with the Croatian Fire Institute. We've been working on an assessment of energy consumption, and this is just the first step in regulating what we call reduction, so relieving energy poverty. We are also bound by certain EU directives. All EU countries have problems with energy poverty. One regulation has been adopted at EU level in which in the winter months this category of people should not exclude energy because there have been countries where several thousand people died during these great winters when the temperature is very low due to lack of heating, so that the whole of the EU has actually shown a very high sensitivity to the category of people who cannot pay for energy, so that their energies are not to be excluded at that time in winter. We've decided on a certain co-financing of energy at this moment of electricity because it's a universal energy. So electricity is simply available to all in the Republic of Croatia, unlike gas that is not available in some parts of Croatia, heat that works in only one part of Croatia. So, electricity is universal energy, and that's why we've decided 125000 users, maybe 60 to 70 000 households that will receive 200 kuna per month for electricity costs, and that's how we think we can help them combat energy poverty. There is also a provision, i.e. a legal assumption for a major reform that we have set out in full. However, more state administration offices need to be equipped and the reform will come to life from next year. It is about transferring fees to a unique cash centre to be formed at state offices, public administration offices in the county. So it will be the unique cash centres in which the citizens in one place will be able to receive all the fees. On the other hand, the state will know in the next two or three years exactly which fees and who they come to, which is extremely important because we have a lot of fees coming from different resistors. Each is paid in a different place and we think that this is one of the reforms that can also lead to significant budget savings such as the consequences of these reforms that have been implemented in the social care system. These centers will first of all relieve our Centre for Social Care which at the moment is quite concerned with issuing certain solutions. At that point, they will have much more time for what is their basic job, which is to deal with families and to work with families who need help. On the other hand, citizens will be able to get all their fees in one place, so they won't have to walk from one place to another. This is particularly important for those places that are traffic-insulated and where there is not so much public transportation as there is in Zagreb, Osijek or elsewhere, that they can do everything in one place, and the Offices of State Administrations in Countys are available to all. So, this law creates all the assumptions that these powers cross from the Social Care Centre as the first compensation, and then there will be a child's allowance and maternity benefits. So, slowly, all the fees will be moved there. Those who fear losing contact with the Centre for Social Care have no reason to fear. In this reform, a so-called “supervised ” was also designed. a back office in which individual employees from various institutions will operate. We've already tested that on the write-off of a debt where people from the Social Care Centre, the FINA and the IRS worked in one office. And I have to say, that worked very well. The procedures were very spotless. All the problems were solved immediately on site because all three were each and their responsibilities and could provide solutions. So this is also going to work, so here, in some ways, a particular pilot project has already been implemented. It should be said that we were in the last amendment to the law put in place a provision that was a motivator and should have been a motivator for people to look for jobs, which is that if those who are working able to find a job within two years on three months, they lose compensation on, so our Social Care Center. We've removed that provision so far until the market is back up a little bit so we don't have anyone who would really be left without any compensation. So, those who do not want to accept the workplace for them, there is also a mechanism to immediately wipe them out of our system and end the compensation because of the sea. I also have to say that we did well in that provision of community service. So, many units of local self-government are now using this possibility and most of the labourable social benefits users want to work and be useful. So that's what we knew to bother them because they were removed from the world of work, they were removed from any socialization and most of them want to work and be useful, so through some kind of community service. And another change in the Social Care Act is an increase in the maximum weekly number of hours, a service of psychosocial support for children with difficulties when it is provided in a particular institution. So we increased from 6 to 12 hours a week and up to 18 hours a week to raise those parents, or those children whose parents have parent status and come from single - parent families. So, those who take care of their own children most often children with severe damage, unfortunately a number of fathers leave the family the moment they face such severe harm from a child’s mother alone. And precisely because they're much harder to take care of those children, we've increased this number of hours that children can stay in our institutions for so to 1800 hours a week. And we think at this point it's another help to parents who care for children with developmental difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117425	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. We've reported a lot of replicas. Let's go in order. Dear representative Nada Murganic. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117426	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I will be very brief in this replica. I personally welcome, and all of us, any action and activity that will lead to the improvement of the economic situation of our poor citizens. However, my question is with what right does the Government of the Republic of Croatia promise new rights to its citizens and at the same time it does not allow them to exercise old but legally established rights? For the past year, ministers have not been paid extras for other people's care and assistance, children's extras, no disability and personal disability payments paid to those who filed applications this year and at the end of last year for reasons that the single body of artisans does not work. So, I rightly conclude that there have been savings that will enable you to now promise new rights. The resources in the state budget are not to be provided, you claim, because you have rationalized. This isn't rationalization, this is not work and inaction. A unique monetary centre, you also claim that this does not require the provision of new funds in the state budget. For them, I remind the ministers both of you and the public, we are in charge of the 70m-euro loan. That money will come back not only from this government budget but from the next five governments and their budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117427	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117428	Let me start with this last one, Mrs. Murganic, this is one of the World Bank loans. The government has also previously taken World Bank credit because it is the most favourable loan, most favourable with the least interest rates. If we want to do something in the Republic of Croatia, then we don't have the funds in the budget. So we can decide to stand in place, not do anything, not move anything. I am sorry, for example, that the World Bank loan was spent 3.5 years ago in a way that nothing was done in the welfare system. The computers were standing when I came to the welfare centers, and at the center when I came here in Dubrava, when I said we were going to make an app that was supposed to be made because the World Bank got the information that it was made and it wasn't then the employees laughed at me and they said here's another minister who talks nonsense and promises what they wouldn't do. I did, along with the center staff. In 3.5 years, the application functions as an application that for the first time withdraws 8 data in Croatia. And it's the only one in the government system that pulls so many data. In the end, we also succeeded with the IRS and their real-time data. So all the incomes of our citizens that we now see for the first time in the center and we can calculate how much income there is a particular household today. We couldn't do that three and a half years ago, and that's what the World Bank loan was spent on. As for the unique body of art, let me just say, there's no savings here, we're not saving anything on that. The unique body of artisan is the new body of skill precisely because children with developmental difficulties received one right for the same disease in Varazdin, another right in Split. So, the unique body of art is the only way to even the art and achieve a certain justice to get the same right for the same damage. This new body of art, yes, has one number of unsolved cases but it is not on purpose Mrs. Murganic, because we do nothing with intent and we are not masochists and we are not bad people. The only body received it from 1.04. In 19,980 cases, 60% of them worked and the rest will be done by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117429	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117430	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. Well, you've taken 100 billion dollars in debt over the past four years, and you've only done 18 thousand less jobs in the last year than it has been, and over the past three years, much more, less jobs. But now about that after. So you didn't do anything with that 100 billion. And this is practically insignificant of what you're talking about five computers in your ministry. I'll just look back on what you're proposing to introduce 200 kuna to the poor for electricity. It's pure fraud and manipulation. And all you've been doing lately is fraud and manipulation, not what you said it was. So, the government gives 200 kuna, it's not another fee, it's introducing another tax to Croatian citizens. That's why you cheat and manipulate, because you say we'll all pay for it. And I am first willing and I will vote in favour of this law but that it is not a new tax being introduced, that it is not a new tax being introduced to pay for what you now want to buy for the poor, cheat and manipulate, but rather to take it from the money for associations that mainly work against Croatia because they make fun of it or mud in Croatia. Because it costs 300 million kuna a year, 125 thousand users times 200, 25 million kuna a month, that's 300 million a year. You can only spend one half or one third of the cost that you spend annually on these organizations that work against Croatia for a 4-year term you can finance this electricity. And take it, go ahead, and give it away, and I'll raise my hand for it, and give it £400 a month, because we can finance it. Take from the parades you worked 25, 50 million that cost. Take today's session of Parliament, cost 5.6 million kuna. It's in 5 days you could just not hold this session for 5 days you could finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117431	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117432	This isn't about any deception or any lie, this is about changing the power supply formula. Negotiations are under way in which she will change. Which means that they pay part of their price for renewable energy sources all the time, for certain other contributions, and all of them are paid into the state budget. At this point, the formula will change in a way that these 3 Junes will pay for energy poverty. So that's where it goes, not the budget. It may only be covered for the first month until this system is established, but it's definitely one solidarity fee, but that solidarity fee we agreed on with three electricity suppliers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117433	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117434	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government, I'm shocked by your statement. It's the opposite of what you signed. So in your reasoning of the law, you have no figures, no single figures, and in the light of the law, you have indicated that the funds will be secured within the limit at the position of the Ministry of Social Care. Now you say the diametric opposite thing. Wait, what are we discussing here? So you wrote it, no one wrote it from HDZ. That's what I'm talking about innocuousness, because introducing a new tax or parafiscal imposition, and this is nothing more than a new tax and a new parafiscal impose. Because 3.5 years ago, Croatian citizens, including those reportedly aided today, want to help, raise the price of the profession 25% and are said to be used as an investment swing for Croatian electricity industry. So for 3.5 years, you've been taking away what you can't give back to them for the next 20 years. What about the billions that are on average in the Croatian household around 80.90 kuna per month for the past 44 months, what about the money? And to you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, article 174, paragraph 3 of the necessary funds, that doesn't say anything. If we, as a Parliament, accept that someone here tells us that he told us wrongly when there was a budget because there can be no difference and extra funds if there are no cuts in certain expenditures, it can't be. If there are, then you had to make a motion to redistribute funds within the ministry to see it. What you say about companies dealing with electricity distribution are not budget users, these funds have to come into the budget and you don't have that position. So, you don't have that position, you can laugh as much as you want, this is the document you signed, it's completely contrary to what you're saying here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117435	Thank you, thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117436	The government regulation provides, you have not read the same thing, the formation of a new position, and you as Minister of Finance know very well that this can be done in the budget. Therefore, I understand that you as an opposition must seek the reasons why this is a bad project, but it is important to me that citizens get their 200 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117437	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So prominent Deputy Prime Minister, the laws are not oral promises, the laws are not oral explanations, the laws are not pre-election promises a month, the two before the election laws are what they say. And in this law, it does not say what should be written in the order of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines and obliges the legislator to indicate the assessment, the sources of the necessary means to implement the law. There's nothing about it here. All these stories, the promises, you're now talking about negotiating something, it can't be, that law shouldn't have come to the debate before you secured the funds, and you didn't provide them, and in what you wrote, it's actually the truth that it's going to be burdened by the state budget, that it's going to be transferred to 2016, and it's going to be burdened by the next government, the HDZ government by paying what you've just come up with before the elections. However, it is good that you have acknowledged your complete failure in the field of social policy and employment because in the assessment of the situation you wrote yourself despite the recent official exit of the Republic of Croatia from the recession the situation in the labour market remains very unfavourable. Of course, it is unfavourable when there are 18 thousand fewer jobs in July this year than in July last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117439	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117440	Once again, I will repeat by redistributing funds thanks to rationalization within the social care system, the money is provided for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117441	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117442	Thank you. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, it was very interesting to listen to your opening statement, so among other things, you said that you've been reducing the deficit for the last 3.5 years, so you've reduced it so well that you've entered the excessive deficit procedure. You've cut him so well. Just to remind you that you've crossed over 5% of the deficit in recent years, etc. So that your deficit reduction didn't happen, you didn't secure the funds. Today, we will insist on telling the Croatian public that you have not provided the funds for these measures that are foreseen today by this bill of yours. Therefore, there is no funding in the budget provided for the payment of those funds. You said that for 3.5 years you worked with the Croatian Fire Institute to introduce this fee, 3.5 years from the beginning of your term until today you worked to introduce this fee with the Croatian Fire Institute, you said, that's what you said. Have you calculated with Hrvoje Fire, with the institute how many of these households have you taken on the basis of a decision to increase electricity by 25%? Did you calculate that data? How many times is this more than all of these funds you've been nowhere to pay new fees?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117443	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117444	So I'm going to repeat once again the money is for everyone secured within the framework, so in the positions of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. As far as the deficit is concerned, the easiest thing to say is that it was yesterday. The deficit didn't come yesterday, the deficit's been piling up for years. So all these governments and you're wearing your crime scene for it, so you can't get rid of it because the deficit has grown in your time. And I would like to see you as an opposition that deeply cares about the improvement in this country tabled at least one legislative proposal or supported at least one reform initiated by the government of Zoran Milanovic. Unfortunately, you've tried to tear down every single one of them, and it's always on the street, not in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117445	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117446	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Opacic, we'd be happy to support a few reforms if one of them had been in the past four years, but now it's on the side. So we know it's pre-election time, but that doesn't allow you to twist the facts. First, you said it was your government, i.e. Mr. Milanovic's government inherited the huge deficit in 2011, and I'll remind you that the deficit was over 20 billion after your government put 11 billion kunas of shipping guarantees into the deficit in 2011, no matter how many years ago. And out of 14 billion, the 2011 deficit gap, this government can only dream, unfortunately. So the jump will be 100 billion kuna, which is confirmed by Mr. Linic, your former finance minister. And as for the other side of the shipbuilding, again it is unacceptable for the government to credit itself with the merits, otherwise I remind everyone that restructuring of shipbuilding and privatisation was a condition for the conclusion of EU accession negotiations. Therefore, you attribute this to yourself, and in 2011 the cost of restructuring shipbuilding is inadmissible. Secondly, you mentioned that the former HDZ government is to blame for the excessive deficit procedure, so I will remind you that the HDZ government is responsible that today Croatia is a full member of the EU, but you managed the state two years before we entered the excessive deficit procedure. So Croatia entered the summer of 2013, then you were in power for a long time. And finally, allow me just one more sentence, and that is, the office is social measures, however, that this government has not destroyed 80,000 jobs in the past four years, provenly destroying the standard of Croatian citizens 10%, impoverished us all then, of course, social measures would be needed to a lesser extent today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117447	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, in 2013, 22% of children lived at risk of poverty, and 10% of households had no use for heating in the winter of 2013. We are in 2015, and when you talk about the welfare system, you say that there are also those who serve both fraud and manipulation. You were talking about the rationalization that you're supposed to be responsible for, so I'm going to remind you of last January when you rationalized just the most vulnerable citizens, you've reduced social benefits, especially families with more children, and that's almost 15%, and you've saved on account of those poorest citizens 140 million kuna, so that's your rationalization. By the time the law was passed, I would tell you the exact information, the support for the seven-member family amounted to 3,000 kunas, after your rationalization, that was 440 kunas less. You've determined today that electricity is universal energy, so you've figured out in your exposure, and I'm going to say that this is a universal method of manipulation of universal energy. Madam Minister, simply put, all of this will be paid by Croatian citizens, this is a new tax and this is a new life on debt. What you did not say in your presentation is that almost fifty articles of this law that you represented come into force in 1.6.6 years, this is pure manipulation and political populism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117449	The reply to the replica was respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117450	As far as the entry into force is concerned, only this part of the reform, hence the single monetary centre, enters into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. As far as you're saying, my rationalization to the damage of a number of families, so we've had to make a decision in reform to limit the final amount of compensation, we've limited it to as much as the minimum salary of 2,900 at that point. So if a woman who works in the textile industry gets 2,400 hours and feeds three, four family members because her husband doesn't work, we don't think she can get anyone on welfare anymore, the more numerous families get social assistance in all local self-government units and have extra cumulation. We had a situation that our families had 15.000 kuna when all the expensive children's allowance, maternity benefits, social programs from the local self-government unit, especially where they are more betrayed as the city of Zagreb. So if someone thinks it's very fair to live better than work, then I think it's the wrong message. So 2,900 was at that point the minimum wage, now it's 3,000 and we've limited to that amount of social benefits that can be accumulated by the state, so all that's left of the local self-government is still being obtained. And on the other hand, that children with problems with a warm meal at school were also during the government of Jadranka Kosor and during the government of Ivo Sanader, but only this 17,500 children have been solved since the 5th month of this year and here, from the first day of the school year, 17,500 children will receive a warm meal in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117451	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117452	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, in this bill of yours, I couldn't tell what Croatian defenders who lost their supplies were. The supplies that were defined for them were about 6,000 kunas. Today your increase that you share as a 15% increase guaranteed i.e. guaranteed minimum fee is 800 plus your 15% 120 kuna 920 kuna. Well, I mean, tell me what these Croatian defenders are who today in your social category register are not recognized as such at all, as defenders, but are all equal social cases. And tell me this, when you're so worried about the risk of poverty by sharing what's called power supply aid, didn't you create those poor people when you increased 25% of the power at the start of the mandate? You're talking about savings today. The savings are visible, that there are more and more poor people you've wiped out of the Department of Employment under guard that they haven't actively sought employment. You yourself are saying in your report that the situation in the labour market is still very unfavourable. 36 thousand Croatian defenders, already that number and over, are looking for a job without success. They're the ones who should be with supplies to survive, we don't even know them in your social care today. Today your deputy says that this category is not recognizable in your social category as guaranteed minimum fees. Tell me, how much is this guaranteed minimum compensation for the Croatian defender?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117453	Thank you very much, reply to the replica of the respected Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117454	So those who have entered the welfare system have all equal treatment, so those who are single 800 kuna, those who have children, so on each child they get a certain amount of compensation. I'd just like to say correctness is to say that the defenders who entered the welfare system, and it's about hard-working defenders, are defenders who in one part got something more because we recognized the family unlike supplies that didn't recognize it. So the difference for singles who got 1090 kuna supplies, difference from 800 kuna if he's single to 100 and something is compensated by the Ministry of Defense, so they're not at risk. And those who have children got more because the supply only recognized singles' defenders and we recognize the whole family. Thus, in that part, defenders who had children received a somewhat greater compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117455	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of replicas and responses to the replica. Let's go, do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? Yes, the Committee on Health, Social Policy, Honored Committee Chairman Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117456	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. At the 70th session of the Committee, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act with the Final Proposal for the Law. The Committee discussed this Act as a home working body and, in its opening argument, submitted a representative of the applicant giving reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. As highlighted by the proposed law, the increase in social benefits and the introduction of special compensations for vulnerable energy customers will prevent further deepening of poverty among the most vulnerable groups. Following the implementation of the applicable law during its period of application, it has been established that singles who are incompetent to work and children of single parents, or children from single-parent families, are the most vulnerable population group in view of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation and are at the greatest risk of poverty. Therefore, the main amendment of the law also refers to an increase in the amount of the minimum fee guaranteed. In the first category there are 11090 users and for them the fee increases from 800 to 920 kuna. In the second group of 3103 users and increase is from 320 to 440 kuna. A new fee is also being introduced for an energy-hazarded buyer whose amount of 200 kuna will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and such people in Croatia have about 125 thousand and they will receive a voucher for electricity that will not be able to use anything else. The debate praised one of the new laws relating to the transfer of competence to resolve the right to guaranteed minimum fees, to state administration offices in the counties. As pointed out, experts of the social care centre will be relieved and will no longer be able to carry out administrative and financial tasks related to the administration of this compensation and will be able to devote themselves more quality to individual professional work with users. The amendments to the law will also abolish a provision under which a person who receives a guaranteed minimum loss of the right to the state's cash compensation after 2 years. One of the changes is the increase in the maximum weekly number of hours of psychosocial support services for children with disabilities at 16, 12 hours a week, especially children whose parents have parent/teacher status and come from single-parent families up to 18 hours a week. During the debate, there was also a discrepancy with the conclusion that additional financial resources are not necessary for the implementation of this law. However, as explained in the further discussion, precisely because of the information, rationalisation and consolidation of the system, nearly 8 thousand cases have been detected in which errors have been established and their payments have been suspended and the amount remaining has been rerouted to these two most vulnerable categories. Thus, the number of social care users now corresponds to a real number of citizens who are really poor and need social support. Noteing the introduction of these measures immediately ahead of the elections, the Government of the Republic of Croatia noted that in the first year of its term, it immediately increased the compensation for singles by 200 kuna. After the discussion, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority of votes of 7 votes for and 1 abstentions, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117457	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. Do the presidents of other working bodies want to present their reports? No, I don't. Then let's discuss it. I'm opening a debate. And in the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. Now it is the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117458	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the minister is gone, I welcome the co-workers of the minister. ... And I'm sorry, I just... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues. The flag of Croatia's first and first demagogue, Croatia, can be said by now by former Labourists, was taken over by Mr Zoran Milanovic. On this left, on my left, well at least a hundred times I've heard you're a populist, demagogue every time anyone proposes to go to a measure that makes life easier for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If I hadn't listened, I wasn't at the beginning of the Vice-President's speech, I probably wouldn't have trusted someone else to interpret it. She said that 3.5 years were calculated with one institute, which is offensive to the Croatian Fire Institute because imagine that he calculated 3.5 years of compensation for those who could not pay the electricity. They're top scientists indeed. I think someone from the Croatian Fire Institute should raise their voice against this insult. If that's true, then we don't need a institute like that. If indeed the Social Democrats were Social Democrats, then they should have introduced this measure not three weeks before the parliament was disbanded or two weeks or a week before the parliament was disbanded but three weeks after they entered power. They were supposed to, and they were getting ready, since former Prime Minister Sanader's resignation, it was known that the SDP would come to power. Then they were to calculate and prepare with various institutes in the first week, the first month or the first six months, all of what they are trying to demagogue now to 5 minutes to 12 or 5 minutes after 12. This is pure demagogy and pure pulsism or dirty, whatever you want. If someone had dared to do it before from this left side, they'd be flying more arrows than the Indians fired in all the wars, the poison arrows. Be careful, an extraordinary session of the Parliament to be convened for what was to be done three and a half years ago and now to say, "Off with medals because the Social Democratic Government, I always put under... not from now but from three years ago, is being felt by those who do not. Look, it all looks like traders who first raise enormous prices, and then, so all year round they have... write big total sales and put 50% off in 7 days. First you raise the electricity 25%, and now you give it to the people you've taken, you add up how many months it's 25% higher, now you give them 200 kuna. And probably, or maybe even, I don't have a ball so that I can divulge, you won't even be providing that money anymore. Or it doesn't matter who's going to secure it, but you're transferring it to another government. Well, just so you win power, there'll be another government, maybe another prime minister. You said it took you 3.5 years to calculate how much compensation it takes for the poor to pay, to help those who can't pay the electricity. And how long it takes you to start an economy, 100 years, if you've calculated 3.5 years for these 200 kunas. As long as it takes, how long do you need to start the economy, how long do you need to reform the judiciary? I've heard from the Deputy Prime Minister before that you've made some major reforms. So I'd like you to say at least one you've conducted, which you've discussed here and implemented and that works. which is the reform, the judiciary, where we are at the bottom of everything, the European bottom and the world bottom, except for the government's feeling towards the poor a week before the election, a week before the parliament's disbandment. Says the Deputy Prime Minister just before that there was a famine at the time of the government of Ivo Sanader and at the time of the government of Jadranka Kosor. I heard something else, that in Croatia at least 2-3 times I asked for a break here in the Parliament because of hungry children in schools, a year and a half ago. The poison arrows were flying. I've been called names for it, they said I've been harassing the public with lies, and today it's said that there are 17,000 of these children, now at once a year and a half. I say again a week, two, three or four before the Parliament's disbandment, there will be 17,000 hungry children in schools. Anybody want to apologize, so if you'll excuse me, we've accused you wrong, have hungry children? Then the minister said there are countless newspaper titles, only Roma children are hungry. It's her line, and today it's 17,000 or so Roma kids at school. So yes, it was quite certain at the time and at the time of the previous prime ministers of hungry children in schools but then it was not necessary a year and a half ago when the opposition started to help those children, then it was not necessary to say that there were no hungry children, that it was an invention of opposition. That's when the prime minister said, remember, that the problem is not hungry children, but overweight children. Remember those bread crumbs, which wasn't all said, and now all of a sudden, it's all turned around. There are hungry children, we are the ones who will feed the hungry children, we feel not you from the opposition. That's weird. Who's the demagogue now? Now judge for yourselves who is demagogue. It says it will be given to poor families, 200 kn for energy compensation, and this can be achieved by the budgets by 150,000 citizens, i.e. 73,000 households by, say, 3 votes, this time 3. That's about 220,000 votes for 25 million. This is a vote purchase for €113.6 and several thousand has been taken to increase electricity due to large investments that HEP will make during 2012, thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth. And if he had made those investments today, I guess the electricity would have been lower. He has not made any investments, such as investments so far. According to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, it is a struggle for people, not a vote buying. So how come you haven't fought in three and a half years? We learned from the Deputy Prime Minister, they didn't fight because they calculated for three and a half years, so they didn't fight, they had to calculate. Now that they're with the doctors of science, they've calculated the amount to be given to the academics now we have that price of 200 kuna. And there are other fees to be paid. How much? How many days or how many months will this government decide what we vote on today, with me saying right now I'm for all the help. It is necessary to help those who do not, to take away those who have too much and give to those who do not. However, we should call this law the name that he deserves, that he was brought three years ago or at least a year and a half ago then we would believe that this government is indeed going to protect the poor. The prime minister has said countless times that he will not be courting voters, that he will work in principle, that he will not cut the ribbons, that he will not go to the fake, to set up false cornerstones. I think if he needs to open elevators by election, like they did in one of the governments, I don't remember any more. In Hamlet, there was a man who said a lot of things, and he didn't stick to it, and he said, "His wallet is empty, he's gambled all his words." That's the one with the 21st plan. Shakespeare is therefore current because speaking politics has not changed much since his time, and even ancient Greece has not changed. Unfortunately, what we're facing today is a pre-election trick and it's absolutely certain that many who don't have that 200 kn will do them any good, that they'll catch that bait. But there's a lot of people who are going to wonder why they haven't given me that 200 kn before. Why weren't they sensitive to us all these years? Why do the Social Democrats share only before the elections? Since the economic crisis has lasted longer than expected, remember all those promises that were made in 2011, 2012, despite the recent official exit of the Republic of Croatia from a recession similar to the percentage of growth exactly when SDP was Prime Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor called it a statistical error. The situation in the labour market remains unfavourable. It means that day-to-day boasting about getting out of the crisis is just another hoax or a lie to the public or this is a hoax that we're bringing here today. Speaking of stamp strings about getting out of a crisis seems to be wrong. The law on increasing social rights is adopted by an emergency procedure because of the potential deepening of poverty, at least that's how it is explained. How will poverty be further deepened if we leave the recession? Which is why you do not adopt, for example, a national policy plan according to the emergency procedure, because according to UN data, Croatia is among the 10 countries with the worst demographic trend and in 35 years there will be 700,000 fewer of us. Why didn't we discuss it? Why don't you worry about it? So, by law, you want to give crumbs to socially endangered citizens, or buy their compensation for some hundred kunas on average, means on average, or at best, electricity and gas vouchers of 200 kn. If people don't find a job, you'll be kind enough to keep them on welfare for a while, because you're worried about becoming poor. Many of you must be living on the moon from the luxury limos you're driving really looks different. People who work and live in poverty, and imagine that it is only for those who are unemployed or forced to receive the social assistance you give three weeks before the parliament's disbandment. In the demagogy of what we're talking about today, Zoran Milanovic would have defeated Chuck Norris. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117459	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've got seven lines reported, we're going in line. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117460	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, here you have noticed this fact mentioned by the Deputy Prime Minister, which is that 3.5 years were due to take place together with the entire ministry to make one such decision. And of course, you also mentioned the fact that at the beginning of its mandate the government increased the electricity price by 25% to invest, to start an investment cycle to bring about economic growth. I will remind you, as well as the entire Croatian public who trust us, at least one part of it, that at the beginning of their mandate they promised 3% growth in 2012, economic growth, and in the coming years they promised 4%, and in the end, in 2014 and 2015 they promised 5% of the annual GDP growth. What was in the realization? Two percent in the first year, and then they're still down. So today we are not even at the level of 2013 when you are looking at the state of the economy, nor at the level of 2013 regardless of this growth of 1.2%. And when we talk about this growth of 1.2%, let's go figure out why it came in one quarter, we're not talking about annual growth. We'll talk about annual growth at the end of the year, only when the whole year is over 1%, it can only be below 1%. But I want it to be bigger, I want it to be 5%, but it's impossible with a government like this and with moves like this that it does. So what happened to that quarterly growth? One esteemed macroeconomist said very clearly, three factors, ISIL, sun and oil. I would also add the toughness of the private sector despite the government and despite what the Croatian government is doing, only for that. I think it's clear to everyone that there's been no reforms, no investments. There was no need to increase 25% of electricity prices, should have been left at that level because no investments were made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117461	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117462	Dear counterpart Matušić had it not been for electricity to increase and the citizens would certainly have spent more, more funds would have gone into the state budget. If you remember in the discussions we had about the budget every year, when he was still the finance minister of my club, Mr. Slavko Linic, we didn't think we'd meet like this and be in the same club, we said that it was the government's policy, the fault of saving, that they couldn't raise prices, that taxes had to be cut, but the government didn't listen. You have forgotten another element that is very important why the tourist season thank God is good. And that's Greece. So the Greek crisis, a lot of crises have happened that have been going on for us. However, the crisis will not last forever. We didn't make such a big leap in tourism that we'd have so many good results as they were. So, all the circumstances went hand in hand. You need to repeat that one sentiment that tells you who's licking the sword with a sword and dies. And I'm going to go back to the demagogue passwords in which it was spoken at first violently when it came to this growth of 3 to 5%, and it's going to grow, and I'd like to see that growth happen. I don't think anybody sits here who doesn't want to be 5%, so if you need 10%. So we'd all be much better off. There would be no problem in Croatia. However, this did not happen. But those who have submitted to well-intentioned suggestions today are truly champions in demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117463	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117464	You're telling a respected colleague that this bill is also pure populism. I'll quote you Article 1, paragraph 1. The constitution where the Republic of Croatia is defined as a social state. Article 3 also speaks about how the highest value in the Republic of Croatia is social justice. And Article 58 states that the state has a duty to the weak, powerless and other unemployed and incompetent to work, to ensure the right to help and to settle the basic needs of life and to devote special care to the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life, etc. There are other many provisions. You also say that such a bill was to be passed by the government or proposed three weeks after the authorities were taken over. You know very well, I believe you know, that such measures can be taken and suggested only if you have how much orderly you have. Well, you know very well that people came to Mercedes for welfare. Therefore, we are not afraid. I personally think that neither the government nor all of us here call such good measures pulsism. Our principle is a better life for citizens, and you call it whatever you want. And I'll tell you more, so this bill also introduces order, introduces justice. And as the great Russian writer Asimov said, it would be the order obviously someone must also be in charge of the mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117465	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117466	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I hope you do not think that I am in charge of the mess, and perhaps I am not, because you are interpreting every well-intentioned criticism of causing disorder. You're saying this, that the Constitution says, so sad you just read the Constitution, why didn't you read the Constitution four years ago? And see that the Constitution says that the necessary help is needed. You remembered three weeks before or a week, two weeks before the Parliament disbanded that it was necessary to help those who were poor. Well, that's terrible. That's terrible. You shouldn't have said that today. So you remembered that the social state is the one that helps the poor, when, I guess, all the time, not three weeks before the Parliament's disbandment. This is a 25 million kuna measure a month. Remember all the cars, the smart phones that smart people need because the phone itself doesn't work as much as you've thrown money, as much as we have, we've talked 100 times here in Parliament how many agencies, the councils that don't need, how many hundreds of millions have been thrown away. You're saying now that there was no money, that it took 3.5 years to calculate to give 200 kuna to those who have the least. It's a clean purchase of voters for which others don't have money, don't reach into the register. What Milan Bandic does in Zagreb, you are now working at the state level, and that is that, you will probably also be in the coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117467	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117468	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vuksic, I agree with your claim that Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has become Croatia's first populist, that is, citizens know and will come out of this election with such thoughts. The fact is that the government that escapes, which approaches populistism or with populism goes to the elections knowingly that it has done nothing, means there is no solution, has not made or achieved its goals and then by pulsism let's catch what we catch that. However, you mentioned investments and why electricity prices were raised 24%. So here's what they promised in that famous government work programme in 2011-2015, it says on page 8, and it's all available, they promised to do it by raising the price. So here is what it says: "We will build new power plants and four hydropower plants on Savi, two on Drava, the Senj hydropower plant, the Kosinj hydropower plant, the Plomin 3, the Ploče thermal power plant, the new gas power plants blocks Zagreb and Sisak, the new gas power plants in Slavonia and Dalmatia. Then we will encourage investment in renewable energy plants, invest in the construction of gas pipelines and gas warehouses, research and oil exploitation, and this is a failure and gas, the modernisation of refineries in Rijeka and Sisak, better not to talk about it, ELG Omisalj, the oil pipeline of ADRIA and the southern current." So all that in four years, we're going to raise the price of electricity a little bit. What happened? Winning HEP last year 2 billion and 700, incomes of HEP 2011. 13 billion 173 million, 2013 14 billion and 670 million kuna. So in one billion and 600 million kunas, they raise their income, they take their profits to the citizens, and now we're going ahead of the election to the next round, we're going to tax all the citizens with 3 lip per kilowatts to give 200 kuna to the poor. So we've got a profit of 2 billion and 700, so here's to reducing these accounts to a team that you've identified as poor and let the rest of the citizens go. Someone's going to grow 8 kunas, someone 30, someone 50 depending on their consumption. But be correct. Oh, no, you don't get your goals and we're gonna go back to taking everyone's money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117469	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117470	Dear fellow Boric, you counted too many of these hydroelectric power plants, so they were probably not achieved because they thought there would be too much electricity if they realized... Look, when someone doesn't make any of these promises, there's not a single hydropower plant, and there's a surplus, and we said that state-owned companies don't exist because, at least that's how I think they'd make a profit, and that the citizen's muse should have, so the power plant was supposed to bear the costs of those who can't pay for electricity and gas and not increase by 3 lips to all citizens and tell you see, that's what the government did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Give me those moves so I can do it so you can see how I can put my taxes on, raise prices and put something in my pocket. If you work with the logic of many who rule in Croatia. This is a populist measure because it was brought before the elections, that it was brought before and that it was used by poor citizens for 2 years, 3 years no one could say anything. However, when proposed by the opposition or the opposition's actions, some of the measures that would make it easier for citizens, we have also proposed laws, all the hametice was rejected not only rejected, ridiculed by the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117471	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Attorney Gordan Sobol Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117472	Thank you, Mr. President. In your discussion, you spoke about whether any reforms were implemented in this country at all, you asked each of us how it is possible that there is a renowned institute that takes 3.5 years to calculate how much assistance should be given to people who have a problem with accessing energy, or with the possibility of paying. Well, my colleague Vuksic, we have been sitting here together in this House for several years, a year and a half ago in March 2014 this government for the first time compared to all the governments in the past brought something called the Strategy against Poverty in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020. Somewhere in the beginning of the 12th month last year, a detailed programme of implementation of the strategy was adopted with precisely concrete measures, when, during which period, it will be done to fight poverty in Croatia would finally begin and have effects. This is what the government did, among other things, in cooperation with an institute such as Hrvoje Pobar who certainly didn't have a job just to calculate how much this voucher will get in kunas. You as a parliamentary representative should know that, I suppose, because in the end, and everything we've done not only this year but also years before that, they were in line with the outlined reforms, or you also think that when someone says, we should make a reform of the social system, let's now snap our fingers overnight everything will be settled. So it's about reforming the social system in this case, and you look at it and you'll see what are all the elements of that reform. This law that we are discussing today is precisely the result of the reform, which is outlined in the strategy and in the programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117473	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117474	Dear Sobo, after the strategy we adopted in the Council, is there fewer poverty-fighting strategies? We here can bring strategies every day, strategies, have you implemented any strategies in action? You're saying that it can't be done overnight, is it supposed to be for every 1,600 night strategy about how much it takes 1,600 nights like this every time 1,600 times each time and it takes a pre-election time to make some moves imagine those you're sure are going to go to elections and that you're going to make it easier for that month to live, one month you're going to? What if after that there's no money? Well, what do you care is there's gonna be another government, it's not gonna be you. I don't think I've done anything wrong. Secondly, the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, I say you insult the Institute, pardon the Croatian Fire for what you say, so watch it sit down one scientist calculates in one afternoon. One third of Croatian citizens are believed to be poor, one third, came to this. After that strategy, nothing improved. All those smart, educated flee from Croatia because they know that there is no justice or justice here and that is why they are leaving and that is the consequence of this policy and of this government and previous governments, of course, but now we are talking about this government because this government has been ruling for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117475	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117476	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, the job of a parliamentary representative as I understand it when we receive a concrete bill is to study the content and to show ourselves about it, or to make suggestions for improvements, and to ultimately support it or not. In your presentation I could hear a lot of things but at least about what you think about the concrete content of this law, whether it's good or bad. After all, I think that the content of the law is extremely good, that it will help a wide range of people and that it is necessary. I couldn't figure that out from your presentation to the end. I would have voted for this law if it had been proposed six months ago, I would have voted for it if it had been proposed six months later. So tell me, are you in favour or against this law, do you support it if it helps people now, helps people in the future. I don't think it's a good idea for this law to be delayed or not passed, and I couldn't hear from your presentation about how you would even show yourself on this bill. And one more thing, from... rows we had a chance to hear a big cry about what both this law and these other laws were incorporated into an extraordinary session and an emergency procedure. In previous weeks and months, we have heard calls for elections as soon as possible to speed up the work, and now we hear crying about the week before we shortened our vacation. Well, I expected them to ask that we have no time at all to do what we have to do as soon as possible, but we haven't heard anything quite the opposite. And I don't know what you'd call it except cubic hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117477	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117478	Dear fellow Pandek did not listen, I said copy take your hand that's a good measure but it is brought five minutes to twelve or five minutes after twelve. Any kuna given to the poor is welcome, therefore, you would never have brought these measures if they weren't elections and you can't prove it. Secondly, you're saying it's not good for this law to be delayed, so how are you going to postpone it when you disband the Parliament? Now you're going to say we're going to provide you with this, disband the Parliament, and I don't care who's going to worry about it any further. What if you don't win the election? You're saying it's purely hypocritical to say that the Assembly was unnecessarily called 7 days before the regular session, precisely because it's a cost. The crisis in Croatia is so deep that we should work every day on Saturdays and Sundays Parliament and discuss the economy of important things. Remember the days when we left Parliament at home for 3.4 hours, when we were only sitting on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday was just a vote, when you said there was nothing to talk about, and the country is at the bottom. Therefore, if anyone is a hypocrite, then there are hypocrites who raised their hands and were handlifters to the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117479	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117480	My colleague Vuksic, here's today's address of the minister reminds me of a series that was there in the '80s, and it seems to me that it's always started with the one "Dekna hasn't died yet, and when she does, she doesn't know." It is amazing that this government and all ministers and prime ministers, and here is the minister of four years before the parliament's disbandment, has been constantly calling for some previous government, as if the people were stupid and didn't hear it, he didn't see. The minister said nicely that there were no hungry children in this government, the previous that there were hungry children, and we also remember that cutting thin bread, we also remember that the prime minister said that there were no hungry children but that there were too many overweight children, but I came forward for another reason because this collection that was related to HEP as an announcement to help the economy of 25%, so HEP had a profit of 2700 thousand kuna, so these measures are bound again to HEP. Here I am calling you, and I will give you a whole series of examples of businessmen who have set out to build their business facility where HEP, which has a monopoly position with this kind of gain, has been blackmailed to build a trafostation, that this trafo station has to be handed over to HEP and still has to pay HEP the connection to that substation that the landlord built. And it's a practice in the Republic of Croatia made possible by this government. And now, a few months at the end of the government, we're saying that everything is great because the sun has been shining all summer, that the beaches have been filled, that our tourist traffic has grown, because the highways have temporarily been filled, we're saying that we're going to help someone at the end of the term and three years we've been, what have we been doing? It built HEP for these 2 billion and 700 thousand kunas except that it charged the owners with building trafostations and a connection to that substation so that they could hire people and run into production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117481	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117482	At the beginning of Zoran Milanovic's government, state-owned companies were said to be the wheel for investment in the Republic of Croatia. However, nothing has happened since those promises. Many have likely met with the HEP monopoly that is the state in the country. Those who did any minimum investment, privately worked the house for a few kilos you need, I paid 18 thousand kuna to buy, to spend as much electricity as possible, then they charged it. They have a tax tax, a thousand taxes, built in that price of electricity. We don't have time to discuss this right now. That's why I say it's pure demagogy. Mr Milanovic said explicitly in his opening speech here in the Parliament, I will not call for the mistakes of the former governments. The only thing they've been doing for 3.5 years, four years, and even today, is more to be forgotten today, I'm at least a thousand critics at the HDZ government. But now it's incorrect to talk about the HDZ government when this government is ruling for four years. Although the last time you yelled at me was how much Milanovic paid me. I'm not paid by Milanovic or you. So I try to be principled. The government has not done what it needed, which it has promised and seen to collapse, trying on the wings of a good tourist season and buying voters to win another term. And I think it's a disaster for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117483	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, do you really think this law would have happened if the elections hadn't been in two months. And you know what the product of this law is? On the one hand, you have excessive deficit measures and you're proving to be a major reformist towards Brussels. And on the other hand, people in Croatia don't feel these very good changes that so much talk about, and then you go on something like this. Load again the citizens of Croatia to give part of Croatia. However, the greatest truth of this extraordinary session and this agenda is that a whole other law was to be found at this extraordinary session. However, when you put populism on paper, you come up with some different knowledge. Well, that other law has not yet seen the light of day, and the session is called in the form it is. However, what we should all repeat here today, this is a new tax for Croatian citizens, this is kind of a 17 or 18 increase in tax burden for Croatian citizens in the term of office of this government. Because if someone after 3 years of office is unaware of what kind of social image he has in the country and does not foresee this budget in the last year of his term and does not foresee the budget projections of the other government that will succeed him all talks about the consistency of the government's policy. And the second thing I ask you and the Croatian public is, who has been holding back the full use of the OIB for 3 years? Because this is all what we're talking about today, if the OIB had started to apply properly in 2012, it would have been clear, and many who are receiving social assistance would have come out of there because simply the OIB was introduced there for one reason but someone 3 years was a country by the side. Why? Perhaps because of false moral sizes in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117485	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117486	Dear fellow Shuker, regardless of our different worlds and ideological differences, it's an honor to the OIB. You've been spending it. But at the time of the HDZ government, you were boycotted about the OIB. And this government went on. And that OIB didn't live for one reason only, he didn't live to hide those who had something to hide. However, this government has won elections precisely on what it said we're fair to give us power. Some lawsuits deny it. The other topic is this. The government of Zoran Milanovic failed to start the economy. She failed to make the most important reform to be made, and that is judicial reform. And what can he offer at the end of his term? To thank the dear God, although full of agnostics and those who do not trust the dear God for a good time, at the "crisis in the world" under quotes and buy for 100 and some kuna votes of those who unfortunately often succumb to such demagogue moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117487	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117488	Mr. President, I'd just like to ask that, so you can disrespect me as a politician, you can tell me whatever you want, you can insult me, but please don't insult the people of Hrvoje Fire. So it's the institute where experts work, people who don't do work overnight, people who do every detail and when I say that we've worked with them for three years, yeah, we've been working on a big project where it's calculated to the smallest detail that I don't think there is, maybe a very small number of people who would understand what it's about because it's really a profession that went from community to community, watched where any energy is used, watched household spending, so it's a very extensive job. You may think it's easy, but I'm just asking you don't disrespect the work of a profession that's been doing a very good job all your life and doing it for 0 kuna because it works for the citizens of this country. This decision on the 200 kuna that goes to the poorest is a political decision, it's the government's decision. As for a warm meal in schools, why isn't it secured before, because it's not like you're telling me that for 3.5 years I haven't done anything I wouldn't tell you what I inherited, it wouldn't have occurred to me, but I have to tell you when I got here the previous government signed contracts for almost 80 million kunas bigger with associations than the money was secured, on purpose and for 3 years. Thanks to associations that had enough hearing for that position, they reduced their budgets and we survived with all the programmes that the associations had and with existing funds that were much smaller. Croatia's lottery was not only used to finance projects for associations, it was used for many other projects that were funded, it would be very good to see where Croatian lottery money was poured out 4 years ago. The order has now been introduced in Croatia's lottery, and the money is being poured into it. For three years, I had to make up for money to all my organizations that are already working on projects that depend on many people with disabilities. Now, in the fourth year, I could get some money that I could focus on paying for a warm meal to the kids, and that's where we didn't make a difference. I'll tell you, there's a parent whose kid doesn't have a hot meal at school, but they both work at the state administration and they get paid. And we paid such children for a warm meal because we don't make a difference between children, we didn't want to do it. And yes, you who come from Međimurje County if I'm not mistaken, Varazdinski, from where... Zagreb? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, from Croatia, I thought that from Turkey. So you must also know that there are counties where there are children who are unfortunately at the most at risk of poverty, and that's what I was saying and it stands. So the UNICEF research that has been done confirms that unfortunately, one number of children is permanent at the greatest risk of poverty, and they are slightly more than 20% in this programme. So 20% is the kind of kid we covered with this program. When you asked me to list at least some of the reforms this government has made, I'll answer that. Since we've abolished 52 parafiscal liabilities, which means we left the economy 380 million kuna; of which we've reduced 3,000 people in the state sector who've been employed, and there's a kind of savings that's been created; of which, when it comes to the OIB that you're talking about, we've boycotted it for three years, I don't know what reason. They boycotted it before because the application of the soc. care in which the OIB was a backbone should have been done before the government of Zoran Milanovic came to power. So this OIB we used for this app, it was used for an e-citizen that was made, for a JPPD form so-called. a form in which now all the businessmen, so all those who receive salaries, show and show every month all the incomes of our citizens, so not only income but also journals and copyright fees. So everything they've earned past their pay so far we've never had that data. So much for some just reforms. If you need 3 more information about what we did in 3.5 years, I'd be happy to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117489	Thank you very much. First accounting, then we'll be replicas. We have eight replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117490	Dear Minister Opačić, have you made a reform of the state administration? 3000 fewer employees are not reformed. Is this state administration more effective than it was before? It's not. Ask those who invest. When a poll was conducted with investors, the potential first thing they said was the state's disorder. Did you reform the local self-government, you didn't. Did you make a reform of the judiciary, you didn't. If you think what was done in the judiciary and what was warmly supported here in Parliament even seems unanimous, that it is reform, it is not. It's simply a new organisational scheme. It continues to cobulate, it remains long waiting for solutions in courts, and just the reform of the judiciary is being set up by all investors as one of the conditions to invest in Croatia. It wasn't done. You say 52 parafiscal charges have been lifted, but the economy has not been launched, and the results remain unsatisfactory. If these reforms were made today, you certainly shouldn't go with the social measures you're trying to buy voters with. You haven't convinced me of any reform. First I did not insult the Croatian Fire Institute, almost again Ruđer Boskovic said, Hrvoje Pozhar. I told you to insult me with a sentence that they calculated for three and a half years. You didn't say three years, you said three and a half years. So you said you'd been calculating with them for three and a half years. We'll get the transcript.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117491	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117492	So it doesn't even occur to me that I insult anyone or you, or the least scientists in the Croatian Fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117493	Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117494	Dear Minister, here's a long time to talk about whether it's populism or not, it doesn't matter. It'll be good for those who don't. And it's important for us to constructively try today to say that I'm correcting what we may have missed because we need to help the poor, but there are also poor people who don't have electricity. There are poor people who don't get a chance because HEP hasn't done the electrification. Unfortunately, it would be good to correct these proposals since it is said to have funds in the budget, so no additional resources are needed. I know you may not be able to resolve this issue through your ministry, but as Deputy Prime Minister, you can certainly talk about it at the government. I think it's also one of the big problems, because unfortunately there will be poor people who won't be able to use these 200 kuna for electricity because they don't have electricity, they don't have that under it now that the school year has started that children can learn, do their basics because unfortunately we are in such a situation that HEP so far is not through a programme that could, which had the SIO program, has not provided the means to complete this programme and to provide electricity to everyone in the Republic of Croatia. I would like it to be possible if this proposal were either complemented or something would be done to these people who are also particularly in a difficult situation not to be discriminated against, but to allow them to have electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117495	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117496	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. With these amendments to the Social Care Act, we allow the Government to increase the price of one kilowatt of electricity to Croatian citizens by about 3 June after it is adopted by its regulation. We are discussing the law on renewable energy sources for which implementation and implementation will need to further increase the price of one kilowatt of electricity to Croatian citizens by about 10 June. Therefore, here during this day these two draft laws, which will be discussed by the Croatian Parliament, will lead to the purchase of electricity prices around 15% further than the current price of one kilowatt. When we are aware that two years ago we increased the price of electricity 25% and allowed Croatia's electricity in the past year to show profit of two and a half billion kuna whether you consider it a social sensitivity of this government to further increase the price of electricity to Croatian citizens by around 15%. Therefore, only by implementing these two laws will we increase the price for Croatian citizens by an additional 15% and allow Croatia for example to generate additional profits, additional profits and at the same time to impoverish Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117497	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Đuro Popiè, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117498	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Bačić actually said a good part of what I wanted to mention with the fact that I want to add to what Mrs. Minister Replica is around the Institute of Croatian Fire, the Institute because I don't think anyone here wants to. But the Minister herself said that this proposal had been working for three and a half years. It's an insult to the Croatian Fire. They certainly haven't done it in three and a half years, because as the minister said, this is a political decision and there was nothing to do about it. It's very simple math. Three lipe times six terawatts of hours is 180 million kuna on an annual level. And they calculated how much the volume of citizens can divide into and that's simple mathematics. Well, that really doesn't involve getting involved in the ability of the Croatian Fire Institute. But what else is important? So it's not three lipes but it's 3.75 lip is and VAT on it. So on 180 million kuna, more states will take 40 million kunas of VAT to that amount. The total price, therefore, is going to increase something by 1 point and some percent. However, they added more than 10%, as electricity prices account for over 50% already today. There's already, there's three and a half lips for renewable sources, 22 lips for distribution, 9 lips for transmission and other 17 lips for, or 17 kunas per month for measuring devices. So these fees that today are 50% increase from this 3.75 lip by 10%. And there are still renewable sources by 2020 of 10 limes, over 15% of what Mr. Bacic said. That's what Croatian people need to know what's going on with this. So this populism, this quasi social, sensitive behavior will pay all Croatian citizens for more than 200, 20 million kuna a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117499	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117500	Your Honor, Madam Minister, you said the decision on the 200 kuna was a political decision. The same political decision was a few years ago and the increase in electricity prices by 25%, so now at the end of the term you're giving 200 kuna to those same citizens who over the course of the three years calculate how much they paid for that electricity 25%. But that wouldn't be a problem if you didn't say 52 parafiscal duties were lifted. Yeah, but who gave up those funds? The unit of local self-government that was the biggest hit by this government. Here's an example of the mountain cotter and the detachment of the mountain-mounted area. People who have been prevented from receiving assistance with this basis who have lost in the budgets of the local self-government unit. 50 million kunas were taken from the towns and municipalities of Gorski Kotar. Just one move and one speedy decision towards some kind of development indexation. Both damages our citizens and there is no help until the system is turned in a different way. And it is not fair when we speak here 200 kuna we will give someone help, if we know that textbooks are purchased here in Zagreb for all students, and somewhere in Delnice, somewhere in Brod Moravica, somewhere in Skrad, somewhere throughout the Croatian unit of local self-government cannot help even subsidising children in kindergartens. The government has made a decision on compulsory preschool education and has made a decision to finance that education. You know how much? With 20 bucks per child. And the economic price of children in kindergarten is 1850 kn that must be paid by the unit of local self-government to which you took the funds. Now I don't know what these political decisions are if they go to harm your citizens. And now at the end of the term, this way, buy a vote for 200 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117501	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117502	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President and Minister, not only is this law addressed to an emergency procedure, but it is evident that it was written in haste. If you read only Articles 50 and 52, then you can see how superficially it is written, how unconcentrated it is written, and how vague and confusing it is. Article 50 states: "The Minister responsible for Social Care Affairs will adopt the rules laid down in Articles 7, 15, 23, 32 and 45 of this law within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law." And some articles in this article come six months apart from other articles. Because 24 articles appear on 1 June 2016, and the other articles come into force 8 days of publication in the National Journal. At the same time, you prescribe Article 50 that the Minister must prescribe the Regulation referred to in Article 15, and Article 15 does not provide for any regulation at all. I'm just asking you to read it and you'll see it. But apparently no one has read it because he's not interested in the essence. Something was to be quickly concluded to make someone think this is a great bill. It would be best to pass the law to ban three years of passing such laws. And it's an emergency procedure at an extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117503	Thank you too, colleague. Fellow representative Nada Murganić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117504	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister, no one wants to offend you, I don't mean to offend you or your government, I don't mean to offend our poor citizens or this institute. But the fact is, and we have to tell you, it's very clear to everyone that this law does not want to help citizens, or these measures, but you want to buy votes now in pre-election time. In fact, during your government there were four legal interventions. In the first law right after your arrival, you were in the business of humanizing. In 2014 you also want to cement and confirm this personneling. In 2013, 31.12. came into force and you came very thrifty. It was going with the resolution of the deficit of the state budget exactly from the weakest. Compensation has been abolished, defenders of military supplies lost, went public with very insolent and heavy accusations against social services and social care users. Remember your statements when you said that few children are hungry, something is a little Roma children. Remember the statement that parents of guaranteed minimum fees should pay warm meals to children. You've shown very often incomprehension and incompetence. And, of course, now let's ask ourselves, what's the sudden concern for the socially endangered? It's not their concern, it's your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117505	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117506	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, ma'am, you insisted in your performance that you had implemented reforms as a government and that there was growth in Croatia. I'd say that there's been a rise in demagogy, utopia, false promises, pulsism, legal proposals without cover, and we can define all of this as an increase in unemployment and poverty growth. You yourself have found that poverty growth is visible and that it needs to be prevented, by this very law. A law that led to the rise of poverty. 81 proposals were made in expert consultation with the interested public. Of these 81 proposals submitted by 17 associations and individuals, 7 centres for social care in the Republic of Croatia which we also consider professional people you did not respect except in part 8, 73 you vigorously refused. So this professional public absolutely does not exist and knows nothing about it, and has written strong remarks on these amendments and additions to the laws that have been drawn up here in this consultation that took place from 29 July to 27 August 2015. Why is this law an emergency procedure when such objections are made to his articles?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117507	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the ORAH Club, Sustainable Development in the Croatian Parliament and Honorable Representative Mladen Novak, it is a new club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117508	President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, so I can only agree with this, I can only agree... All right, I can agree with most of those who have taken part in this debate so far that it is still pre-election and politics and populism and I do not know all terms and demagogy and all terms have not been used. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Many participants in the debate mentioned just one detail, during the current morning, I asked Prime Minister Milanovic what he would do about hungry children? Then he answered that it was not the problem of hungry children, that hungry children were gone, that the problem was that unquality children were fed and accused me of using the lowest form of populism. A day after that, two associates pulled things out of the fungi and explained that it meant only a certain population, or specifically a part of Roma children, so they talked about that famous thin cutting of starch. And you know yourself when, after someone, after a speaker, all his associates have to answer the word to explain what the poet wanted to say, that he, in fact, and they are aware that he was saying what he didn't need to say. But another detail that is common when it comes to such advocacy, that is, when it comes to something that is not done in a quality way as it should be. This form is published on the pages, it is a consultation with the interested public, counselling carried out during the period from 29 July to 27 August. When a person during this period or through Christmas and New Year’s, in general, consult with an interested public, it means that everything is meant to go in peace and quiet and that no one knows what is published, or what is planned. In addition to the quality of this material, I must admit that for me it is quite disappointing, and even more disappointing for the organizations that have come forward and have twenty amendments to twenty members who are not even covered with this text, which means that we cannot even propose amendments to this text because of our Rules of Procedure, but the solution is disastrous. Remember there was no long we talked in this same assembly about it, about the Law on Children's Compensation, that law caused a lot of storms, but then it was said that, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues coats here he gave that statement that I watched on TV, that the idea itself was well hit, but that because of the seriousness in which the government would approach the problem they're doing the whole law, the Law on an inclusive add-on, because I just started the problems. We've got two, maybe three weeks for a session, me as far as I know, a commission or a task force or a working team as it's called, it's only met once on that matter. When will this Act of Inclusive Adjunction that he would bring offer a complete solution? Obviously, for the term of office of this government and this House, there will certainly not be. The situation in this vault isn't just, it's not just about this law. I have to mention these events that are just taking place these days, I'm sorry that President Leko left, I raised my hand, I asked for a break, but he didn't spot me, but it was my fault not to be persistent enough and loud enough, and I thought I'd talk about the Centre for Education and Education Vinko Beck, the Centre for Blind and Weakly Persons and also about the Centre for Educational Education Goljak branch of Rudes. I see a reaction to what I'm trying to do. The thing is, I'm not accusing either this ministry, nor the principal is she's saying that the most important safety of users and staff is that she's in the first place, that's her statement yesterday. I can agree with that, but what about that fact that the condition of that facility has been like that for 10 years? What about the fact that 250,000 kunas are invested in the construction of the yard and the playground? The ice skating site, what didn't know about this, or did it have to be known only three days before school started? That's the problem, and it's not about the people who will easily adapt, change the institution, change the object, the environment, I think you've had to hear a little bit more about it. For a year and a half, this law is in force, and the reason is that we noticed after a year and a half that we were taking additional risks from the poverty of 3,133 children, we warned of that when this was being adopted. I remember these discussions, then we warned about it, there was no hearing. And also for those two years famous. Who in Croatia can expect to get a job, especially from these people to whom this law applies? And then there was no hearing, we're selling demagogy. One detail that I had intended to commend, although I heard a colleague react probably rightly, I think she knows this issue better than I do, to engage now with the state administration's office. I think it's a good idea, but I'm afraid, given the experience we have. Will the story we had with the unique body of art repeat itself? I have here a phonogram of this debate, I remember what we pointed to, and mostly almost all the opposition clubs and ministers today you said that no one called for savings. In this phonogram stands your deputy defended this law, that among other things it is about saving. And what's the situation, after all, I've been looking for, there's no longer a long time ago and a break related to the functioning of the unique bodies of art, and what might be the best thing to say is that the government has passed the regulation, meanwhile, on the amendment of the Law on the Single Body of Art, which includes external associates. So, your colleagues were right when you claim that this problem has not been reduced by anything but we believe that it has been increased. There's been a lot of talk here about electricity. The government's brought a regulation on that, too. The Regulation on criteria for obtaining the status of endangered customers of energy from networked systems and now we hear an explanation of three, three and a half years inconsequential, it has been, professional teams, working a serious approach to it for three years studioically and then look at the law passed by this Government Energy Act of 2012 which reads "In the course of 6 months from the entry into force of this law, the Government will adopt this regulation". It is a deadline that the government itself prescribed, for 6 months, and the law came into force on 19 October 2012. What's in the meantime? That deadline no one else gave them, they set it themselves. So the assumption is they knew what they were talking about. Property censorship, property and income, is someone going to inherit the house in here now I'm looking at my colleagues, so I'm going to say, the legacy of the house in Dvor or in Croatia Costanica or the business space in those two locations, will his disability be lost? Does he have a chance to put into office a business space in the Court? Does he have the opportunity to sell the house in Croatia to anyone, and from the territory of the town of Kostanica and two neighbouring municipalities in a year 500 people have moved you all abroad? What do we do with it? And that's why he's losing these rights. Property and income censorship have nothing to do with this and they need to get out of this law. Captain, I remember the same debate about that, when we warned that the solution that was offered at 6 o'clock wasn't enough. Now you have letters from the organizations saying that practically the child's breakfast lasts you for two hours, and we're instead of listening to them, it's no loss 4 times 4 and 4 times 5 hours, either. I have to go back to this power plant and another detail. If you've shown real social sensitivity you have people with disabilities who are addicted to devices, devices that practically keep them alive, these people have electricity consumption between 1,000 and 1,500 kuna, there's not much of it but there are and you have to have those records, so you exist. And now count these three Junes and that VAT, and those supplements that the colleague had just added up, how much would increase or increase the war to him, and we give them 200 kuna generously, and we give them that, not in 2012, so it's three years behind the deadline. That 25% when we were raised that's when we said ok. We'll rule out these people to them it's a serious item, no, that hearing wasn't. You mentioned reforms, I received an e-mail saying among other things on the basis of the Europeanisation of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia on the subject, excuse me, the 8th of May 2015 roundtable was held at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. If I didn't bring my glasses, but if it's the only grudge here, I admit to criticizing it, I accept it. It warns you that the reform itself has been totally missed, that it is guilty, that 100 thousand euros, but beware these are experts, this is not the story of a parliamentary representative who is who knows what professions and from which branch came, these are, this was a professional gathering. And there's no reaction to that. Why there's no reaction to why you keep saying that everything is right and everything is exactly what you're saying, just your attitudes. And now I've taxed you at least 10 things where we warned in time that it would not, that the proposed solution was not good, that it should be reached for something else, that it should be respected, so ultimately the opinion of the profession, you don't have to respect. And what the opposition says, so it's not sucked out of a little finger, and that's the most common consultation with field experts. Is it such a problem to run over your own ego and say it, this is really on our side of the mistake. And after all, I'm going to ask you a question. Articles 3 to 5, if I am not mistaken, or 4 to 6. The child's allowance bill. That text of yours that came in, that went through at the end of such a muscle power, give me what it is, where it stands in the fundamental law. These became articles which are now, what are these articles in the basic law? It's not there. So much sloppyness and superficiality, unfortunately, and in this law, not only about this, but also about this, it's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117509	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117510	Dear Mr. Vice President, the current is ahead of, what, three years or something less expensive by 25%. And this same current today must not be collected for a single lip because of these vouchers that will be given to the needed families. The current just opposite needs to be cheaped. If the current collects for 3 limes, then, plus VAT, it's somewhere around 3.75 June or the state itself will on that basis, not counting some other charges that the accounts will cover about 60 or 70 million kuna in their budget. But why is he answering? Getting HEP is bigger than getting all Croatian banks. The hep's profit at the annual level of 2014 shall be cca. 2.5 billion kuna. I'm guessing their profits are going to be about 2.5 billion kuna in 2015. The same question arises in what they invested last year in 2.5 billion kuna. Yeah, they invested. You know what they invested in? In severances to their bosses of 400, 450 thousand kuna. That's what they invested in HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117511	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117512	I must say, you've surprised me a little bit. As far as I know the situation in Parliament, you are part of the ruling. Now you're transferring the opposition to why the ruling do what they do and you're part of them. ... And I don't know, I'm not so sure, but this has turned out to be just criticism, but I respect that someone is being self-critical here because it's not very often. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But one part, one part, I have to complete myself, I'm aware that I haven't been very specific about Vinko Bek and Goljak, or that exposition of Rudes, I'm afraid it's a question of suspicion again, of what I'm saying, and I'm telling the parents themselves that it's an attractive space, an attractive location, and that maybe someone is interested in it. Look, to be clear, I don't mind, if there's another location, if there's another accommodation, if that space is determined, necessary for someone else, for something else, for some other activity, it doesn't matter, but give as a prerequisite that these children, that these protégés have where to be, because this is certainly not adequate right now. This wasn't sucked out of a little finger and a team before it was really unserious access three days ago. Well, I think now that we're sitting here telling someone in three days we're going to work I don't know in Siget, there's gonna be a problem again, so how are we going to move, this, what, let alone this population. I think I understand what you're saying, and it's illogical for me to wait for 3 offers, 3 elaborates, I think if someone can say after 10 years I'm going to close it today then you can't wait for 3 kind of elaborates to satisfy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117513	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117514	Thank you very much. In your debate, you have recapitalised a number of proposals here and the debates that we have been having about this ministry and the law that it has proposed during this three-and-a-half-year term. Unfortunately, we've come across grades like you yourself said it was populism, demagogy, opposition passions, etc. Here, when it's done like that, then the Slavonic "when I won't how I will and when I want, I will." This way, through this law two weeks before Parliament's disbandment, we can easily solve all social problems and there are plenty. We remember, I'll repeat a little bit, also memories when we talked about hungry school children who were first said to be mostly Roma children, and then it's said that there's black bread, you don't have to eat white. Well, then there's a lot of threatening kids that it's the main problem and they're not hungry kids, etc. Now all of a sudden here before the election itself we have a completely different situation. That's what I want now, then we can, and then we can easily, and when I don't have a variety of charges and excuses for doing what the opposition is, you and I and many others have proposed and rightly so. Knowing the good social situation in the Republic of Croatia, the number of poor, the degree of poverty and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117515	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117516	Thank you very much. A colleague, Grubisic, now praised the school's children's diet project in the opening part or later. I agree, it's for every commendation, and here's if it ever means anything to you in your life, here's what I'm commending and that's the solution. But at the same time, I will remind myself of the sentence of the current morning, the sentence that the prime minister of this chair you are sitting on to me, that I am using the lowest form of populism because there are no hungry children in Croatia, except that children are malnourished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117517	Now we'll hear the replica of Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, you were talking about that silence that was about counseling and, of course, now that silence just before the elections, it breaks off and goes a little loud because we're going to do this and that. And we can't give ourselves away, me and you and many of you who have warned about serious problems in the field of social care, you've been talking about concrete things since... and I've been talking about the center... etc., but let it go now. But we were particularly loud about the unique body of art that you were talking about today, and it was in that system, and it won't, and mostly it won't, and what happened, there's been countless cases. Meanwhile, as it began, 10,000 more have accumulated, another 10,000 unfortunately. So what now? This reflects, of course, on every area, and we are talking here today in the field of social care. Let's say here's my colleague Murganic said on that care allowance in the house, so there's definitely a saved part of the money, this money, there's a portion of the money, there's... there's no, so that's not paid, it's not settled, it's not paid, and now she's telling you 200 kuna. The second thing, surely, is that a lot of money has been raised from those who would now be helping with this 25%. It's certainly more than it should have taken to overpaid let's say through this time what's happened. And the third thing, if counting on what was going on with that debt write-off as it went and how it achieved the results, it wasn't, and now if it goes into realisation, it won't be too quick and fast, so it turns out by that song he wore a gift from the heart but he didn't give it to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117519	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117520	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, here's 14.7 this year, I've been looking for a break on behalf of the club regarding the unique body of art. The debate on the law was March 5th. Between that, if I remember correctly, there was a debate about the Children's Compensation Act when we pointed out how many of these cases there were and that exactly what you said was the number growing.... Every time we got the answer not to read the exact data until we got that record from that working body, working group or whatever it's called when it turns out that we're not only right but we were also modest in our predictions or fears. But the very fact that the government in time until the Parliament is in session brings a regulation that corrects what we've been telling her for half a year, I mean, that's the real pulsism. I know what you're telling me is true, that it's true, that it's justified, but I'm going to keep saying it's not true. And after that, I'll come up with my proposal to cover it all, and among other things, I remembered those stories about age limitations, said the profession couldn't be an artificial child for up to a year. Do you remember that? So when we asked what to do with children born with Down syndrome, what to do, prove something special. Now look at the devil in this law that's been erased, but now it's a motion of the ruling and now it's a quality solution, and when I'm talking from this pay phone, then I'm saying nebulosis because it's contrary to the opinion of the experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117521	Time. The Republic will now be presented by respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117522	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Novak, yes, you said in your debate that he was the hardest-hitted head and... at least that sort of thing and admit the mistake or bite off his own pride. We have been discussing the Law on a single body of art throughout 2014. It was a small law in which we warned that he couldn't live in practice because he didn't solve anything, but absolutely no amendment was included. It wasn't to prove our self, but because knowledge and expertise on the ground showed two things: that they couldn't lift the bodies of the art of the existing until it began and followed the work of the new department or the new service, that they wouldn't be able to be skilled only on the basis of people who were permanent employees in the office, that they would need to have a list of experts, specialists and subspecies, a lot of things. We talked very often about this because the other six ministries were changing, harmonising laws to comply with this Law on the Single Body of Art, and now unfortunately we have a situation that, again, I am not making up me but a profession, warns that not drawers but rooms are full of objects, not only in the centres but in the area services of pension. And it doesn't matter either, it's important that people can't exercise their rights to children's allowances, their personal disability of children and adults, extras for real estates that are 500 kuna or 350 kuna, and here we generously give 200 kunas. It should, but it should allow people to exercise their rights, to report whether or not they can go to work, whether they can go to school or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117523	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117524	Thank you very much. I agree with everything you've said and just to further point out it's not a problem whether something works or doesn't work in terms of the problem, but the problem is that those people who need it most unfortunately have some period of time that they can't achieve their rights, and these aren't exactly negligible numbers. I believe that the matter has not changed, because otherwise this regulation would not have occurred in relation to the record we quoted last time. In your replica, you mentioned another detail that you actually connected with, exactly, the unique body of art. I must admit that I am not directed enough to say now whether or not the preparations have begun, but I hope that the state administrations that are engaged in this will not go the same way, that we will not experience the same story again only because of the election cycle or the election maintenance will not have anyone to warn the good half of the year about it. And another thing, since I see that yet somewhat different approach today to this entire debate on behalf of the club we have proposed three amendments. I ask you to take a good look at them, study them. They're not written for us, they're not written for I don't know what. These amendments were not proposed by us, we only proposed them on behalf of parents' associations, and they are mainly about censorship and property and income. It really doesn't make sense to be. No one will lose their disability because he inherited the house I don't know in the Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117525	Replicated by Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117526	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, you were wondering at one point how much would be the increase in the price of electricity, i.e. how much an increase in the account of the electricity user will be. For someone who spends about 1,000 kilowatt hours, and there are many of them, it is not something that is small, but it is quite present in Croatia. That's about 30 kuna plus VAT somewhere. So about 37 and a half kuna per account times 12 months, figure out what that is. Those who spend more of those bills will be even higher. Winning HEP is 2 billion and 700 for 2014. In 2013, 2014, 15 and 2012 they charged about 5 and a half billion more on citizens' accounts based on an increase of 25% more than the citizens paid by 2012, 5 and a half billion. Of those five and a half billion they charged, they said they'd make an investment cycle and start building thermal power plants, hydropower plants, etc. They haven't built a single foundation, not to mention users who are on PPDS, mountain-mounted areas, etc. who, even today in the 21st century, have no electricity because HEP says it's not worth it. So what do we have now? We have a story where we pass the law, the regulation will sign the criteria. I'm listening to a recent assistant minister who says we don't know who's gonna pay for it, I can pay for the operatives, I can pay for the citizens, and maybe the state can pay for it. She doesn't know. He doesn't know yet. And then a single operator picks up and says we'll take it from here. Now I ask what to do with these users if the operator assumes their obligation to do so means that your users are not paying you three lips, but they are paying the others to other operators. Where's the same relationship with everyone? That's the question that's being raised, because what I'm saying is that we don't know what we're doing, we're passing the law, but it's important that we honor you at someone else's expense, but we're still going to look nice and here we are again in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117527	You ask that to a colleague of Mladen Novak, and he will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117528	I'll do my best. As far as it was concerned, there were very often statements that were really contradictory even if I didn't say in the same day they could be from the government's representatives so much contradictory that we didn't know what would end up being of everything like the state budget, so they would be from the state budget, so they would be out of business, and eventually it goes all together still out of the pockets of everyone, but including all those who are being helped, even them. And I've listed those cases where people are on devices, appliances, or whatever it's called professionally, they have over 1,000 kn war, and now this certainly isn't much of a comfort to them. What I forgot and what the same associations asked me to take care of. A change is required to be the right person with disabilities or a child with developmental difficulties, not parents or those cases we had to avoid those cases as unfortunately that case was. I even think that you, in the light of the law, thought of it when you called on court practice to have a false interpretation. I think that this solution would avoid all possible misunderstandings because then the direct bearer is the right person with disabilities, or a child with developmental difficulties. I think that would make it a lot easier for you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117529	Now let's listen to Dujomir Marasovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117530	Mr. President, colleague Novak. You've said enough, but somehow unspeakable that they've shown social sensitivity and they haven't. It's for them an unknown category... Thinking it's a term, and not operational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were saying that 500 people were evicted from Costa Rica. This policy has driven 100,000 boys and girls out of Croatia in the last four years. It's ISIL, the Islamics have driven and these have driven 100,000 out of four and a half million. ISIL or Islamists have spent 45 million and 300 thousand. Only in an organized way, so it created a picture. And these buses neatly, by trains, by planes, no one's moved out, and 100 grand. And last night, Vice-President of the Parliament said it came to Croatia 100,000, which are mostly, and that it is Croatia at zero. They're returnees from Serbia, but they're our grandparents, some of them came. And it can neither create nor give birth to children. There is no one in Croatia to give birth to children. We're going to ruin what is said not to count now because I only have two minutes. You were talking about populism. So what is Milanovic's populism that every night and all day for 24 hours spins him in front of the Pope on HRT4? He's brighter than the Pope. How much does he pay for a TV subscription? Is that a conflict of interest? And we're talking about electricity, that's my main point. These two points, today's agenda should be declared, this is a debate on the collection of electricity from 15% to Croatian citizens. And these 200 kunas they're gonna give to the poor, it's just compensation for this collection. If they had been socially sensitive three years ago, they had collected electricity, when God gave water and he didn't know what to do with electricity, it would have cost 25%, and they had raised 25%. And now they're raising 15% again. I'll just say compensation for the collection and the agenda should be these two points of discussion about the purchase of electricity for 15%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117531	It is not the vice president of the Parliament who has no business opportunity to introduce you to the exact figures of the Office of Statistics, Mladen Novak will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117532	But no numbers and no statistics. You mentioned populism and now, among other things, you've stated that I don't know the Prime Minister before the Pope. So I have to admit, although I am against it when we tie this topic to this one, this one is still too serious, but I will answer you not because I think they should be protected or defended but I read on the portals of comments that it is a shame that the Croatian-Slovenian entire game has focused on the president of the country, and that there was never once a prime minister who was also at that game. I don't know, I didn't watch the game so I don't know if it's true. ... As for the social sensitivity of the ruling, look, as soon as they pass some kind of law, regardless, as soon as they propose a law that will in any way help these people, I must say that this is progress. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But that's not a snail step, but sometimes we have those two steps back and one forward. That there are solutions that are bad, which now, let's say, this law corrects against the previous one, which we warned about, and in the end there was no social sensitivity. Not to talk about the Children's Compensation Act that really showed maximum social sensitivity. Three months have these people lost for what? For nothing. So it was also possible after the first reading that the government would take over, which was eventually spoken on my part, to take over this material, to be their proposal in the second reading, and at a half-yearly level, the price is 5.5 million kuna. So much for that social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117533	The last line will be presented by Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Novak, I'm surprised that you're surprised that this government is reaching for populist measures at the end of its term and is actually cheating on the whole public, all of us here are trying to fool us, but I think it's transparent enough for us all to see it. What about the government that has been evaluated by international institutions monitoring the work of governments in the world among the 10 worst governments in the world? Of the 144 estimated countries in which the government was assessing the work, the Croatian government is in 138th place, I think. It means top 10 of the worst governments in the world. Instead of being at least among the 30 best because we are members of the EU. What about the government that makes the worst use of EU funds? What to say for the government that has increased the responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia by 100 billion kuna? Or should I say, in 2011, we were in charge of 48% of GDP, today we are in charge of 90% of GDP. What do you say instead of reaching out for populist measures? And they are not interested in the protégés of the Vinko Bek institution, they are interested in changing the Social Care Act as they did in order to change homes, directors of social care homes. And they put conditions there, let's say, that they could be people with high-end expertise who graduated from the colleges of social sciences. For example, he can be a professor specifically of Croatian or historical director of the Home for Social Care but he can't be a professor of biology or chemistry. Why? Probably because he's not politically-like because he's not a member of their party. That's what this is about. So, they are exclusively interested in staffing, they are not interested in Croatia's progress, they are not interested in development at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117535	Time. The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117536	Well, the task of every government should be, and I hope that most of it is handled by all governments, to raise the quality of their citizens' lives. But I will take this opportunity to mention another detail of which the minister spoke, which I simply skipped in my debate, which is when she mentioned about the unsettled finances and Croatia's lottery, she mentioned among other things the applications of the associations that many children depend on, many users of it. But look, it's totally unacceptable for me to have these activities as associations, alliances. What about the environments where there are no associations? Where you have just don't know 4 or 5 possible that would be covered by this but the association doesn't exist, they're not, they're just not, they're not active, there's no one among them who would be, who would pull it all back and they're doomed to nothing. They're not in this story here. And for what? I mean, it can't be that the state puts its own obligations down to the level of associations, it's incomprehensible to me. I remember these discussions, so it's explained to me that it's a quality solution, and I have to admit that this, the state, is running away from my role. If the state isn't social, it doesn't even make sense. And now that the state has passed on some kind of commitment, the fundamental obligation has passed on to some associations that may be, perhaps not. Some do quality work, some don't work. I think it's about time that this part changed, I believe that you have a good will, and now you just have to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117537	The government's vice-president and minister of social policy and youth, Milanka Opačić, now came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117538	Just for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say some information. Namely, when it comes to the Vinko Beck center, it is a very old building. Yes, 35 children are being moved to Kuslanovo at the moment where they are being educated and other children with the same problems. Whether we renovate Nazor or not depends on the experts who are still assessing that building. In fact, it would take about 20 million kuna to rebuild it, but it's about a building that's on the slide. I wouldn't want us to invest 20 million kunas of taxpayers' money and then slip off the building on the first occasion with a big rain. So we'll see if it's possible to invest in that building, if it isn't, we'll look for another solution that would be quality for some long time. As for the unique body of art and rights, you've talked here a lot about saving on it because people don't get an assessment of their disability, it's not true, it's not you, some of them are, but I'm taking the opportunity for people to say it. So people get money from the day they put up with the solution. So if they've submitted it to 1.1. and they've been trained to be 1.4. they're going to get backs from 1.1. for all the rights they should've had under the law. Thus, there is no savings and it is not right for people to be intimidated by it. As for these 200 kunas, I would just like to add that this includes users of personal disability, and one part of these users you talk about will be included, who spend increased electricity on certain aids they have. And in the end, once again because of the public, I understand that there is a slow campaign here, and a pre-election campaign, to try to say everything that can be diminished by this project. It is important for me as Minister of Social Policy that this law be passed and that those most difficult to obtain their compensation at this time for energy. This project will continue to expand because it is much wider than the users of social benefits and that these fees that we have increased social benefits also since 1.10 come to their users. It's the only thing that matters because I do, and I think that most of the people in this House are sitting here too, primarily because of the citizens, and we need to work for them, and all this other politics as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to get into it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117539	Thank you. Now we move on to the formal replicas. First Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117540	Thank you very much. You mentioned at the end of the pre-election campaign, in 2013, the Law on the electricity market and the Law on the gas market were adopted on that occasion, asking the question where is this regulation, when will the regulation expire? So you can't, at least not to me, tell me to use this in terms of campaigning and that it's politics. As far as the Vinko Bek facility is concerned, 250,000 kunas are invested in the construction of the courtyard and the playground, and then that 250 thousand kuna is the same waste of money. We're hearing information that the rescheduling site has been rescheduled, and now it may not be. It needs three expert opinions, it's a procedure that will last. But if 10 years is such a situation and yesterday we all had a chance to see together that 10 years of the facility's condition is such, so it can't be that night's decision is made and in 3 days, you'll find yourself somewhere else. What did she do for 10 years then, why did no one do anything for 10 years? And a pro by the unique body of art and saving your pronoun code, when the law was passed, said it was being saved on external associates, that it was a savings. Look at your phonogram, I think your colleague meant it. I don't know, but she Decedede said she was saving on funds, even mentioned the amount of funds being allocated to external associates working as witches. And then it's said you don't need it, now you're returning it to the regulation. It means you should, after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117541	Thank you. Another replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117542	It's just that the minister doesn't want to hear what's being said on purpose again. I don't scare people, people are scared. It's not the same as waiting for 8.9 months to come in line for the artisan, to get 350 kuna, 500 kuna or 270 kuna, you'll know what it's about, 1000 kuna, 250 kuna, as much as the amount of cash fees that result from the artisan. These funds will not be paid even if they are to be obtained, and those persons will be able to do so retroactively in this year. The funds in the budget will be re-scheduled. So I'm talking about this, about this savings, that is, about that re-use, and this approach will be passed on as a commitment to the budget for next year. That's one thing. Second, as regards savings on professional services, i.e. those who were expert associates were bodies of art. So how am I supposed to believe that he'll save on them when again that famous 70 million kuna loan is part of it for the education of experts who are going to conduct the body of art. So we're not saying it by heart, we're saying what we know, what the ground shows, what the parties are saying. People are in contact with us down in the field and your assistant is able to check everything I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117543	Third replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117544	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you said you wouldn't participate in politics. Politics is when you come up with a bill like this at an extraordinary session of the Parliament, and you don't know the effects and you don't know who's gonna pay for it. That's why we're asking questions, I guess you're the responsible person who needs to give us answers, and not by system, I'm not playing with you anymore. Tell us who's going to carry these three limes per kilowatt hour because we have experience, and experience has been presented by an assistant minister of the economy, meaning one other ministry that says hep or operators can do it, that citizens can do it and that the state can do it. So we have three options that the government will solve in the office, and we're talking about the law. So we're interested in who you are, the more an operator shows up and says we'll handle it. So I'm now asking a normal logical question, if the operator is going to carry on behalf of the user, are they all on equal terms because if the other operator, HEP, for example, won't be able to handle it, then the users will pay you three Junes. So what kind of law is that, and what regulation is that? Normal questions. Answer us, where you will find these 200 million kunas because we claim that HEP has enough reserves, that it has charged these citizens through 25% within 4 years, that it can be elegantly solved through reduced wars on the accounts of those same users that you have recognized these 125 thousand. Reduce their 15 kuna war every month and let HEP handle it. Why should citizens again in the second round after 25% still pay today through these two 15 lip laws over, why, why? That once again HEP has won, and that all citizens are involved, and the government is writing itself some points pre-election, so that is not correct. But tell us what you know who will bear this 200 million kuna bill, he's not in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117545	Now we'll hear the replica of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117546	Thank you... Madam Vice President, I wanted to ask a question that I had already asked in her previous presentation, but she didn't answer. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In fact, she has now stated that the presentations of individual parliamentary representatives are already a pre-election campaign, and I would say that in fact this entire extraordinary session and the laws that we are discussing are the government's entry into the pre-election campaign through the Croatian Parliament. But what I have replicated to Ms. Minister is the fact that today, the Croatian Parliament or MPs, if on Thursday or Friday when the vote is passed this law and the legislation that will be adopted again in the afternoon, which is touching electricity prices, will increase the price of electricity to all Croatian citizens who are connected to the electricity system by 13 lipa if we know that the price of one kilowatt is in a single-tariff criterion 46 June then that means 26% will increase all Croatian citizens' electricity from the 1st January next year for the implementation of this law and for the implementation of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. That's what I wanted to ask Mrs. Minister, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, whether she is familiar with it and whether she knows what a blow it is to Croatian citizens to make it simple to say. It is not a pre-election campaign but a concern for people, not voters as Prime Minister Mr Milanovic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117547	Here is the last replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117548	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, there is no minister, so I want you to give her my replica. I'm sorry that she got into something that she didn't even realize this was going to come out because if she did, she wouldn't come in with materials like this or she had to come in. But she said, the replica is that there are already pre-election campaigns here. This is a clean election campaign and it is an open election campaign here in this House, in this Chamber by the Government and this session is a pre-election campaign of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it needs the cost of this 6 million kuna session to be included in that quota as much as the SDP can spend in an election campaign because no reason has been called for an extraordinary session. Everything they're looking for could be passed by a government regulation. Is that right? It is. So she shouldn't have. And not to mention all the other things why she shouldn't have, because we could've done this in the next two weeks without a problem. So you should include the SDP in his quota he has the right to spend. But you're pre-financing your campaign as you now call the Parliament, harassing the Parliament to spend that money, the state money for your pre-election campaign like you pay and some local televisions that cheer for you, you give them a hat and a paw, and you don't give those TVs like Bujica you didn't give any kunas, or kunas, and these other TVs a million kuna. You're pre-financing your campaign. Well, we're not stupid. That's what I was going to tell the minister. Why is she underestimating us? It personally offends me to be underestimated when he says he has the start of a campaign when it's not everyone's clear people, that this is a pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117549	Time. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117550	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Exactly what we're doing is spending money, but what we're saying is spending money because we're not discussing what we should discuss. It is true that in what the government does, there are elements of what every government does at the end of its term, and she did four years ago and she was 8 and 12 ago, all trying to finalise at the end of her term with something that she did not arrive at 4 years ago and convince the citizens of her policy's persuasion. And this government in this respect is no exception. But our debate as it is and as it is about whether or not this is pulsism is a waste of Parliament's time, the public, everyone who expects another kind of debate on this matter. It is a shame that so many citizens wait from the election year to the election year whether they will get what they normally get in the regular procedure would probably not get in as fast a procedure as they got. And we each dispute each other's right to do so and then when we come to power, we do the same. And what exactly is this about? The debate is actually poverty in this country and it is big and worrying. The poverty rate is 19.5%, which means somewhere around 847 thousand people in this country are at the poverty line. When social benefits and pensions are taken away, the percentage rises to over 29% to 44%. Yes, the average supermarket dealer and her family are in the category of those below the poverty line or just a little above the poverty line. This debate is therefore about growing poverty in our country, but we are not leading it or warning it of that fact. This debate is also about the inequality that is growing in our country, more and more every day. By some measurements, that threshold of inequality has crossed 30%. The inequality threshold has crossed 30%. And he has a tendency to increase. And instead of discussing the causes that produce this kind of inequality, we are arguing as the last orphans about whether in a given year we will increase the fees for singles, single parents as we used to say, and whether in circumstances when almost 15% of Croatian citizens have no money to pay for electricity, gas, to pay for energy and to cover heating costs. That must be offensive for those people when they listen to us. As offensive to me as I listened to most colleagues and colleagues. To them, the increase provided with this certainly means something, and they will pray to God that no one will come down on them. And he's going to beg God not to have someone come in and not increase their energy costs. And only one debate went in the direction of how much HEP revenue is possible in the past and this year and what with that money seems to be. Minister Shuker knows that wars with the same public enterprises as probably Minister Opačić has had to be waged, as I know, because for four years he will not invest in the re-electrication of return environments, lipa, not sweara, but lipa. And they're not ashamed of having over 2 billion income. And they're not ashamed of their legal obligation after 30 days when the house is restored to invest money in connections. No, they say go to the government and let the government do it. And that's an inadmissible condition. The same as the inadmissible state that 70.5% of our citizens, i.e. Our families cannot afford 7-day vacations per year, going to sea, going to spas or anywhere else. And then, of course, we join countries that we think have nothing to do with them. We do, we share poverty no matter where part of Europe is. So we think from the Club of Representatives of the SDSS that the increase in compensation from 800 to 920 kuna, even if in the circumstances of the end of the mandate, is a benefit for those concerned and it is about 11 thousand 90 singles in the Republic of Croatia. We think that the increase in compensation, minimum fees, single parents who have 3100 three children, is an increase from 320 kuna to 440 kuna is a significant increase. Only one who comes to the Gracaca area and sees what people live on can know what it means when someone receives 100 kuna more than they have received monthly and we here need to be ashamed of the fact that it represents joy for people, and we are discussing whether it is populism or not populism. Few of us have the right to say that because, in these four years, rare of us have been asking that question, and few of us are even asking the question of poverty in our country. Rarely, they question inequality in our country, protect capitalists, tycoons, take care of national pride, and where pride can be in so much poverty and so much inequality. It can't be him or there will be him, unless it turns into some evil out of pride. As far as the proposal is concerned, as threatened energy customers are told, it provides an increase of 200 kuna, and it is 125,000 people, we also welcome it, but it must be a system measure because if 65%, if 15% of people cannot, there is no heating of any kind, neither electricity nor gas nor wood, as the National Statistics Office indicators show. If 68% of households spend a significant part of their income on housing costs, then it is a significant income for them. Any of us who knows what monthly heating costs, any gas, any heat heating of another species, knows that this is a significant income. But respected colleagues and colleagues, it won't take long if we don't start to change something, and if we don't begin to approach inequality in a different way. So the state, if it reduces itself to certain palitative social measures, aims to alleviate poverty, not eliminate it, but to ease it, then it won't do much, then it's not a country that we can and should rightly be proud of because in order to strengthen our pride, it has to develop economic policy and it has to have its monetary policy, and unfortunately for years we have nothing to do with it. We don't. And that's what to say. Some colleagues sitting here know it better than I do, and they certainly would say it better than I can say it, but I don't know why they won't say it, and I don't know why we're not having a discussion about this thing that's going to put us in a situation where we're going to have a growth of more than 1.2%, and it's already a 1% increase in poverty to 0.8%, the poverty rate. Well, because we need more independent measures of economic policy and the direction of economic policy development, because we need a monetary policy that will be more our own and closer to the needs of people, not a small number of people who are willing to ensure prosperity to this country. No, I don't. If that were the case then he would have been insured, he would have been secured by any government ten years ago, and that's not the case. We don't record prosperity. For this reason, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think it's extremely important that this was brought, but it's far from what we should do, absolutely. Absolutely, because without adequate economic policy measures and without the appropriate monetary policy that our country will have, we will not have a country that will long be able to do these things as it does with this law today. He won't. The poverty rate will grow, inequality will grow, underdevelopment will grow, and then, of course, the means to heal the consequences of poverty, economic differences, regional differences will not be. The fact that Slavonia looks what it looks like, that there are 543 families in Vukovar who are self-service users for the poor is a frantic data. The information that each of us should be ashamed of if he wants to say anything, and that this thing has no memory when it comes to the city of Vukovar and the whole of Slavonia. And the areas of return that I'm not talking about. About Zagreb, too. This is why we are calling for this to be supported, but at the same time we are calling for what is a long-term approach to this, to start discussing this, to start discussing the dangerously growing poverty and the dangerously growing inequality and the growing unemployment that we have in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117551	We're moving on to replicas. The first one will be presented by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117552	Dear fellow Pupovac, at the very beginning you said that every government does the same at the end of the term, so this government is no exception either. You said, in fact, that every government at the end of its term is buying. Somewhere around you said it was a shame that the citizens of the election cycle are waiting for the government to do what it hasn't done in four years. But it amazes me, and that's when you said we should be ashamed. And now you said we should be ashamed because we're discussing what? I don't know, you didn't talk so much about it when I asked questions a hundred times in at least four years about inequality, about poverty. And that's why I think this is demagogy. You're actually amnesting all these governments to keep doing so, at least every fourth year before the elections, to give, to buy votes. I'm ashamed of that. Let everyone be ashamed of himself. I am ashamed of my mistakes, I am not ashamed of my mistakes or SDP or HDZ or your mistakes, but I am ashamed of my mistakes and sometimes ashamed of my mistakes and admit my mistakes. I even publicly admitted them to the pay phone, but I won't be collectively ashamed. There is no one right to warn me to be ashamed and I will not be ashamed of it because I warned. I was then called demagogue not only myself, many others. Now that I'm saying that demagogues are the ones doing it, and they're only doing it to win the election. Why wasn't that delivered six months ago? Justifying that governments can do this is a great sin that they will not commit because... Yeah, I'll vote for that law, vote it out for those people to get that money, but that's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how we amnesty the store.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117553	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117554	My dear colleague, first of all, I didn't say that governments should do it, but I said that governments do it and that means that, like all of us, governments do things that shouldn't otherwise be done, but they do because they're not banned, because they can. And probably if you get in a position to be part of a government, you'll probably cut yourself off by those means. If you're not lucky to do whatever you think you should for four years. I didn't say you should be ashamed, because I know your contribution to the debates on poverty and equality. And I said there are exceptions when it comes to it. But to discuss this matter only comes to the question of pre-election campaigns, not to discuss what generates poverty. Yes, you've heard a lot about it today. You've heard a lot about what generates inequality in this society and unemployment. It's the usual ping pong balling we normally have on the surface of what's real life for us. So, if it did for a moment, it also seemed the same, like kidnapping points in ping-pong and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117555	Another replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117556	Dear Mr. President, colleague Pupovci. You said we were ashamed. I have nothing to be ashamed of for saying it here, and you're ashamed of me for telling me from a public pay phone to be ashamed. Shame on you for that! And don't tell me from the public pay phone of the Croatian Parliament that I'm ashamed of something I said here. You are no fighter for the people, for the Serbian poor girl from Lika, Bani, Kordun and the villages. You live as one elitist and this is the maximum demagogy that you speak here and manipulation and there you are a master. In the center of Zagreb live, here make-up throughout Zagreb, go to Belgrade for a little instruction and swim in it in a good and nice life, and the Serbian poor thing that doesn't have electricity from you is of no use to any of you. But when they figure it out, they'll be too late. Okay, it's democracy, they have the right to choose whoever they want. And now you tell me that we have not spoken; I will speak of myself, and let others speak for themselves those who keep silent. If I hadn't talked about the subject, you were talking about going to the spa, you were talking about... Croatian National Banks, you were talking about going on vacations, you were talking about spending money in HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What were you talking about? What was I saying and what was I saying outside the subject? Everything I said was about the subject and you're telling me to be ashamed here. Who are you to tell me from this House, from this pay phone? Who are you to have the right to say that I should be here ashamed of something and ashamed of what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117557	This replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117558	Dear colleague, I know I'm not one of 150 for you and I've never been and never will be. But I just want to say that I am one of the 150 MPs in the fourth term in the Croatian Parliament, so much so that you know who I am if you don't already know the other things. And secondly, whatever your relationship with me, you will certainly not affect how or when I speak to the Parliament. As for you and your moral sense, if you had the moral feeling of a colleague, you would cover yourself with ears and not speak. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117559	Peace, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117560	If you had a moral feeling, you wouldn't mention it like you say to a Serbian poor woman and don't take my tongue back, and don't let me talk here about who it is and why it's worth it. And since we're sitting here, we have to hijack every house connection, every home back, every renovated house and every elemental right. And if you want me to start talking to you about names and last names, I'll start talking to you. Because my colleagues and I have dedicated our mandate, and that's why we have it in a few, and you can talk whatever you want, but one day it would be fair to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117561	Time. Thank you. New replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117562	Dear Mr. Pupovac, I'm glad you spoke like this in your debate because you've essentially revealed the whole truth. And when a man tells the truth, he's on his way to everyone. Well, it happens here and here in Parliament and people in everyday life. Indeed, calling the government and those who support this bill to the populists because they want to help the most vulnerable people in our society, were those who were over 60 years old, or families who have only one parent, so to help those children or just to enable co-financing of electricity consumption. And to call it pulsism, that's exactly what you discovered. I think that's exactly where the government wants to help those who need help and who are doing it right now when it can because this law is also the consequence of reform procedures really calling this bill where the poor can only be helped by the poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117563	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117564	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 5, which states that you should give a strict measure to someone who demeans or insults the president or other MPs. We believe this reading of moral lessons in the way it was done is not in line with how fellow MPs talk. Because if we start picking up names, then we can go so suddenly, and then we'll go back to some times that aren't good. Therefore, he has hurt and I believe Mr. Vice President that because of some equality you should have given notice to your colleague, Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117565	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Dujomir Marasovic, objected to Pupovac, attacked him that he is not a Serbian poor woman but that he lives here richly in Zagreb. He received an answer that the Serbian poor among other things is poor because of things that Dujomir Marasovic would have to be ashamed of. I see no difference in my relationship with Dujomir Marasovic and Mr. Pupovac. This is a parliamentary debate, and the HDZ obviously always bothers when someone says something the HDZ doesn't like and then declares it a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's no talk of any injury to the Rules of Procedure. The only one who constantly violates the Rules of Procedure is you reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure aware that these business injuries are not available. And you choose to address the Constitutional Committee, and he will give you his position. You are now re-applying for the breach of the Rules of Procedure even though you know that there is no discussion with the Chairman in our Rules of Procedure. So in accordance with that provision of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you the right to speak now. Last line, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117566	I mean, we all agree here that social rights are human rights, not any spending. Yes, we also need to talk about inequality or need to talk about poverty. But I disagree with Mr. Pupovac when he spoke of collective disgrace. I agree with all the other data he read, that 36% of people find it difficult to put an end to the end, that 19.5% of people in Croatia are poor, primarily because of record low employment. That's the basic reason for the inequality in this society. Every day turns close, stock companies close every day, small OPGs close every day. The poverty threshold for a single-member household is 22 thousand 916 kuna. For two people, two children 48 124 kuna. That family that doesn't make 4,000 kunas a month is simply poor. Every tenth person, as Mr. Pupovac said, in Croatia cannot afford heating. Let's leave the vacation now. Croatia, so I got up and took advantage of the opportunity to replicate, is ranked 16th place, literally quoting "the poorest countries of the world". I can't just figure it out, but it's so simple. I division in society is getting more dramatic and bigger and we can be ordered to draw money and start saving, but if 70% of the people are done in that category of poor that they can unfortunately spend? Not only Vukovar, Croatian cities where they don't have these countries, except where they're valid, I don't know any more parsley or anything like that, they're simply in a poor situation. Until this country solves the problem of corruption, it will not solve the problem of poverty either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117567	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117568	Dear colleague, I agree with what you are saying because these data could be added to a number of other equally worrying data such as the fact that the public kitchen user in the City of Zagreb has increased by 20% this year. And what I was going to say once again, the moment we decided that we didn't have our own economic policies, but that she was shy and that she was imposing herself on the circumstances outside and the moment when we decided that we didn't have our own monetary policies, but that she was bound by the external circumstances and interests of a small number of people here, that moment we made a commitment to ourselves if nothing else, then a moral feeling, a moral feeling for a different view of things than we look at. Given growing poverty, growing unemployment and growing inequality. It was a place where I dared talk about moral sense. And if anyone finds a better and more credible moment right now, I will immediately accept it, and I will apologize to whoever I may have hurt. But so far my mind doesn't see that other place, and my ears don't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117569	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC, Novi Val and the National Reformist Party, a respected counterpart, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117570	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues is in the nature of parliamentary democracy to discuss every political initiative, an open issue on the legislative proposal being debated in parliament, in the Croatian Parliament. But I can't help but feel the impressions I feel today in this assembly at the introduction of my presentation. I feel very sad and a little embarrassed at the end of my term. Because listening to the intensification of today's debate, certain verbal duels and all that was mentioned and presented in the context of this law at some point in time, the images of families known to me who have poor social status or who have a family member with special needs, families, pictures of families who are never allowed to smile. And I thought, at the end of this term, that I have one duty as a representative, which is to appeal to all the current, present and future representatives to finally level the debate of the human, human, responsible, political in this house so that the people no longer give us a score of 1.78 and so on. There are laws that are such topics and such nature that deserve respect, if not for our sakes, and that are for those to whom they apply. Everything was coming out today, and personal impatience and old accounts, you would dare say the impatience that goes beyond the limits of an acceptable human. GDP, hydrothermia, investments, hundreds of millions of debts, accused those who have owed before those who have longer today, and very likely in some subsequent discussions according to the same model and by the same manner, will blame those who, due to all our failures and shortcomings in Croatian politics, will be in charge of this people and the future. Today is my hardest day at the Croatian Parliament, for me. Let me get that impression. I do not deny the right to debate any representative in principle to say what he means, but I appeal to you all from all the political options, all the worldsights and beliefs of the gentlemen finally draw a single line acceptable to this house. Is it without a Parliament that enjoys the respect of none of the stated and desired, nor the exit from the crisis, nor the reduction of debt, nor the quality of the laws, nor better social relations, nor better social policy will be possible to apply and bring in if the Parliament falls to such a low level and the future at which it is today. This topic to us as foreigners, especially Reformists, is not a topic that we believe will solve problems fundamentally, except in the case of those who have difficulties, damages and handicaps. We believe that the social picture of Croatia must be changed by a more responsible approach in other niches. However, we will support this law because at this point it is the only possible legal triage, I will use this term that can currently reduce the problems of those who are poor and permanently to the level at which those who are disabled and sick can help in this society. For that reason, we will uphold this law. We will give an amendment to this law regarding the application of the social censorship when it comes to achieving these support to the needy because we believe that censorship can be incorporated into laws when it comes to benefits. The invalid is disabled, it is our position, the disabled is disabled, whether behind it it costs 3,000 kuna income, 5,000 or 6,500 kuna income from the perspective of the Reformist is quite whatever. We find this kind of discrimination unacceptable in this case. Likewise, we will give the amendment when it comes to the rights that are quantified by the number of hours of transport, it is about psychosocial assistance, and on the trail of demands and opinions of those who directly, life-spang, they know much better than us politicians who are the real needs of such people. As for Doma Vinko Beg, I drew attention to this case and the minister an open proposal, you said in your own explanation that statistics are still being examined and actually validity in the building sense, and you mentioned the assessment that 20 million kuna should be invested to resuscitate the building. I'll be so free, for all those who need such an institution, you have a lifelong need in the portfolio of DUDI, a series of buildings in this country, a lot of larger gauges, buildings that can provide much more opportunities, transport, help, treatments that with 20 million kuna can be equipped in a more adequate way and much more functional than this building. Don't patch up the old one, there's enough buildings in good condition that incompetent state bureaucracy, regardless of the political omen, hasn't put into office in the last 20 years. So, with the gentleman... let him take out the catalog, he would do it if he were you, and he wouldn't give up, no matter how long he has until the election. And I'm glad someone mentioned Gravac at the end of the term. I can freely say this by the representative who visited the state offices at the beginning of the mandate and not only Gračac, complete Slavonia and all rural areas, part of Like, part of the Dalmatian hinterland, Donji Lapac, Ervenik, Kistanje, the background of Knin, the border areas of Drniš, there are many ends which, at the shame of Croatian politics, we can ultimately classify as forgotten people. It's the only true expression. Forgetted by all the options of all the political worldview of all the moral verticals in Croatian politics, all those who tried to position themselves as the size of Croatian society and of all of us. In the '20s, we still have the poor and forgotten people after the war. And when we talk about laws that at least partially tang this forgotten people along with those we see daily because in our environment, then I finally appeal once again, let's have a minimum of humanity, dignity, so if you want that Christian learning within yourself no matter what the date of the election is in two months or not whenever a law is passed that's difficult for someone to give a hand but a small finger, then we can discuss it critically about that law but we do it on one level that's suited to decent human beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117571	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117572	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Branovic, nothing special, but let's clear up here at the end of the term of some things... you said the reputation of the Parliament was 1.75. It's not 1.75 reviews of what we're saying here, not even how we're saying it, because people like what's more said here under quotes, we could say it, we talk a little more dynamically, it's with a greater interest watching, but it's 1.75 consequences that we're not here first. Second, as we all remain silent, the ruling is silent, reading what the government has told them. Here's today's main law my distinguished parliamentary representative Ingrid Anticevic defended, the rest silent and ruling, the opposition of the milk during the entire term and almost gone. And today, the first item of the agenda when one of the illogical things flew into the House when you gave someone 200 kuna to collect electricity and to the entire state, it's against reason. And when the opposition first said that, it's not right for you to say that that's why Parliament's score is 1.75. If this was how the Parliament did what it did today, it'd be grade five. And now you're spreading some brotherhood and unity in the Parliament. What are you talking about? We represent every group of voters who chose us and I say what I think the voters who chose me would want me to say here. You here... what he thinks would be the ones who chose him and here is the set of those opinions. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Don't calm me down here with anyone because I'm not fighting with anyone but I'm just talking about the illogicalness that the minister has brought out here today. And it's simply unacceptable to make that a reason because the Parliament has a 1.75 grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117573	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Marasovic, I am still in good years and not at all demented as I recall your name. I have spoken in principle and with the same right with which you have now spoken all of what you have said in the replica, with the equal right of the Croatian parliamentary representative, I have expressed my impressions of today's debate, its level, the motives for speaking, the intonation of the expressed and the general impression that we leave on citizens. When I look at people, at least I personally one of my first human analysis is how well home-grown it is by the way it behaves. So let me consider that, regardless of the need and obligation to debate laws, the way the doses of cynicism, the dose of indignation, the dose and the rudeness of some in the end are caused not only by the skepticism of this house but by very clearly reducing its significance, its reputation, not only as houses, but by us as Parliamentarians, people and politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117575	Another replica, the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117576	Col. Baranovic, while I was listening to you, your sentence is that this is one of the most difficult days here in the Parliament and that it is very difficult for you to listen to this debate, so I ask you whether it was difficult for you to see your parents and children with disabilities when they were protesting here in front of the Croatian Parliament then or now listening to what we're saying? Was it hard for you to hear that the parents sued the state for failing to exercise the right to care for children with disabilities? Was it hard to hear and see that 1508 defenders were left without supplies, watching TV when the children cried, a colleague Vuksic talked about it because they didn't have a marenda? Or listen to us when we say that 200 kunas won't help anyone? Were you having a hard time making a decision to increase electricity by 25%, which every household paid for? I can tell you what's hard for me. Under these laws that have been passed in my city, 42 families have the right to compensation and the city is further assisted by 158 families according to its decisions. And it's hard to see all those people in the hallway when they come for a 400-dollar food voucher, for electricity subsidies, for everything we're trying to help them with. It is even harder when the state adopts laws that reduce revenues to such units of local self-government precisely for that purpose which was done in Gorski Kotar and throughout Like and such, based on some statistics on the development of municipalities. That was hard. And when we talk about help, 200 kuna is not help. No help can help these people except their jobs and decent wages that they will feed their families on their own. Here we are not talking about people who are disabled who cannot do their job, who should be helped in a different way directly by financial assistance. But creating conditions for these people to get a job, to make revenue, I don't see why it would be hard for you to hear that debate that we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117577	Thank you. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117578	Of course, my colleague said it was hard. And it has been hard for me to see as a citizen of this country and a man who has been healthy and able to feed his family for the last 20 years as they have been systematically losing assumptions in this country that they are healthy and able to do their work to feed the family and get out of the poverty category. I've had a hard time seeing what's been going on in this country for 20 years, very hard. And you know very well what I'm talking about. And it was hard for me as the mayor of Sibenik to daily receive to his office and try to help all those who need it. But we're not going to get out of this situation where the poor... And of course I don't think that 200 kuna is the solution to anyone's problems but it's not a step back, it's a small step forward, at least that much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to advocate giving these people ten times as much as absolute, that's why we have to create assumptions and we're not going to create them. When we bring so much antagonism of personal, political, party to this assembly about laws that have this nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117579	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117580	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, social... They're human rights, I've already said, they can't be considered in any way, or they can't be considered as consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm starting next, until this country solves corruption, and corruption is certainly taking on an annual level, or because of it, 2 to 3% of GDP is not going to be good for anyone. Now what do we do? To fight normally for the independence of institutions that will work, which will not serve and which will not serve any authority. I mean, first of all, the DORH, because they're also the accomplices to this situation, just like the politicians. I said before, I read one piece of information, I was surprised, I couldn't believe that Croatia was classified in 16 places, I don't know what it really means to them, but I literally quote the poorest countries of the world. I'm saying it can't fit the truth but it's been made that way. Each 5th person cannot pay the basic costs in this Republic. Now, aside from whether this law is electoral, whether this is a permanent law, this law as many before me have said should be supported. No, well, maybe someone will say that this law is buying choices, just before that we've all polluted around this electricity. And I'm going to say once more openly that the current must not be collected in any way because of the voucher. She can't pick up any lip. In fact, the current should be cheaped because the profit in 2014 of HEP was about 2.5 billion kuna. What they're doing with that profit we don't know, except they're providing severance payments to their business chiefs in the amount of over 400,000 kuna. And I also agree with Mr. Marasovic, you give a man a voucher, and then you collect his electricity. What you've given him is what you're taking, but it's not just 200 000 people who are socially at risk of getting vouchers, but all 4.5 million people or 1 million families in the Republic of Croatia. That's not the way it's supposed to be. The second thing I'm saying is that the essence of this law or according to the changes made to 11090 incompetent males is increasing from 800 to 920 kuna, and for children of single parents from 320 to 440 kuna per month. It would also be good if we took care of cca 100,000 refugees in this country I will tell Croatian peoples who left Croatia in the last 4, 5 or 6 years because they couldn't find a job or apartment here and nobody guarantees them a job or apartment. What is also a problem, not only of this law but of many, which is that the burden will certainly be transferred to the 2016 budget. The government has opted for temporary funding by disbanding clearly what will follow in the 10 days of this parliament. This then implies only paying those basic costs which must not be higher than the expenditure of the previous year. This means that it must not be employed, but it must not take any measures that create new, larger obligations for the state. And by the end of March at the latest, some future government, this government, does not matter now, will be required to draw up a new budget. In the first three months of 2015, we or the state spent, however, 29 billion kuna, and should continue spending at that level next year. However, the measures taken in the light of the elections or just up to the elections will significantly change the revenue side of the budget. We all know that banks will pay less money into the budget due to tax reliefs, as well as some costs are cut by traders, which will again reduce revenues on the revenue side by central budget. It should also not be forgotten that in 2016 there is no transfer of money to the first pension column, and new costs as we all say today make these vouchers the most socially endangered, then raising various other fees. There goes the solutions which should be done absolutely, there is no dilemma, immune institution etc., etc. What we know for sure now is that somewhere around 400,000 people in the Republic of Croatia will be tangled with this package of social laws. So 127,000 socially endangered families in the Republic of Croatia will receive a 200 kuna voucher for electricity. Once again, I ask that the promoters commit HEP not to correct the price of electricity in any way. 23600 people will receive a greater personal disability, and for 103800 working incompetent singles and single parents' children, the guarantee is increased or the minimum fee will be increased and that will be redistributed by or through 26 million kuna. 73,000 people in health care and health insurance will receive or have already received a salary supplement that will be or will make a redistribution within the incomes of these hospitals for some 190 million kunas. I want to believe that in the same or similar way will be approached, and when it comes to educational institutions, teachers, teachers, etc., in primary, secondary schools, colleges, high schools, etc. 60,000 people will be covered by the Law on personal bankruptcy or bankruptcy, and somewhere around 63,000 people will be tanging this new policy when it comes to Swiss. What's also, just in an accident to mention, caused a sharp controversy at least with me down at the constituency, that's this new law that could come into effect. Whether or not we're going to discuss it, but for a year now, we've been talking about it, funding a water economy where we should now be paying utility services or utility systems and the loss resulting from water pipes, which is usually between 20 and 50%. If that happens, the future water bills will collect considerably, and I want to believe that there will be reason and that such a law will not be passed or corrected. In all, the problem of the socially endangered population in the Republic of Croatia is exceptional. I said before that 22916 kuna is so necessary for a single-member household that it can preserve a minimum of social survival and for a four-member family of 48124 kuna. So there should be a monthly income of at least 4 thousand kuna in order to somehow survive in this country, but it is not, or with, every 10 persons in Croatia, as Mr. Pupovac has spoken, and I don't know how many people or percentages of them can't make ends meet. However, no matter what, this Law on Social Welfare, regardless of the time when it is proposed, or when it will be adopted, should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117581	Thank you. We'll hear more exposure on behalf of the HDZ Club and the respected Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was going to tell Mrs. Secretary, but the minister is gone, the esteemed deputy. My colleagues and colleagues, four years, four years we've watched and nothing. And then just a few weeks before the election enlightenment. Yes, the government began to engage in enlightenment, literally. With everything possible, we're now being introduced by electricity subsidies. There's the light. Well, ladies and gentlemen, where have you been and what have you been doing for four years? We've been working on a project of energy poverty for a year, said Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic yesterday, and it reminded me of what when he talks to you, I'm recalculating. So they recalculated and came to surprising conclusions. The first was that all this needed urgently at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. To completely expose things to the end. Even 50 articles of the Social Welfare Act that you say had to be urgently in the procedure and discussed today at an extraordinary session come into force 1.6 next year. It is the ultimate political impudence to explain to citizens that this law is something that will now, immediately, make everyday life easier for them next month. That's just not true. Is all this coming to us on the benches of the Ministry of Population? Today, a lot has been said about populist measures, citizens are not naive and citizens will judge for themselves who did what they did and who said. For 4 years, the method of attempts and errors of laws that have reversed all segments of society will not change the reality of citizens in these 14 days. The social policy segment that we're talking about today is seriously scrupulous by moving the Resoring Ministry away from reality. So I will just remind myself that this is the same ministry and Minister Opačić claimed that there are no hungry children in Croatia while the prime minister's wife instructed us that black bread can be cut into smaller hams, it is cheaper and healthier said Mrs Milanovic. And the prime minister sheretically noted that today is not a hunger problem in Croatia, hungry children, but excessive weight. Now, without any shame, a big announcement comes from this same ministry that 17500 imagine hungry children in Croatia will have a secure meal. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club support every measure that will make life easier for our citizens, but in this way we are playing seriously with the memory of our citizens, we think it is absolutely rude. In addition to solving the famine, the minister and the power will be resolved. And there was light, we'd say. He says he'll deal with it with the government's regulation, so no new law, not today, not tomorrow. Why is he taking those 1250 pensioners and all other citizens to cover up the failures of his government? How much money did you spend on outsourcing, convincing us that it would be an excellent move, to write off your debts, on your own promotion? How much money did you spend on that? Calculate, remember. You are reducing the fees for the poorest members of Croatian society, for introducing vouchers, for electricity consumption, we can freely say that the new imposition on citizens is a low standard anyway. The most endangered citizens were reduced by your amendments to the law last year in January. To families with more children, you took 15% and boasted that you had saved. Yes, at the expense of the poorest, you saved 140 million kuna. We don't think that's something we should brag about. By the time the law was passed, support for example, the family with seven children was 3000 kuna. After you changed the law, you took 440 kunas from them. Calculate how many kilos of bread it is, how many liters of milk it is. Hypocrisy. Just a few weeks before the elections, you felt empathy for those you were obliged to care about in the resolution ministry. The entire mandate is being manipulated by the weakest and those who need the solidarity of the entire society. In 2014 and 2015, because of the legal changes, you took the poorest 230 million kunas and now you will pay them back as something, about 150. And by burdening all the households among them, I remind a million 250 thousand pensioners. The poorest in this country obviously have nothing left to do but pray that the more often it rains that HEP is doing well to avoid the collection of electricity to make an energy poverty compensation. That's what you did, that's what you suggested. Then you're surprised when we say it's a pre-election move. When it comes to social policy and poverty, you should have taken care of it. Croatia is among the EU's most affected countries. So why did you spend four years, and you didn't solve it? In addition, these changes define the powers of the welfare centre. It made observations about 900 experts, social workers who work hard, you disobeyed their remarks. Aren't they important? Doesn't the waist take any place here? Just politics? And the one that works in the wrong direction and makes a mess. It shall be transferred to the Office of the State Administration of New Powers. We're in charge of opening new offices. Because there are government offices in major cities alone. Where will these men go, where will they be old and powerless, how will they go? Is anyone asking that? In Croatia, more than 20% of the population lives at risk of poverty. My colleagues and colleagues with Bulgaria, Greece, Lithuania, Romania and Spain are unfortunately at the top of EU countries by these figures. The most vulnerable groups of the population, given the right to guaranteed minimum compensation, are singles, those unable to work, pensioners, people over the age of 65, persons with disabilities. Families with a large number of children are not covered by these amendments and amendments to the law. They remain limited in the exercise of the right of course by the total income of gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, which will continue to result in poverty and continued poverty in families with a higher number of children. However, the very way of realization that you propose to us is the additional costs borne by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay additionally increased energy bills. My colleagues and colleagues are not the social measure of this government, but the solidarity of citizens on which citizens must decide for themselves. And no one asked the citizens anything. By applying the very restrictive Social Care Act between 2014 and 2015, you saved 230 million kuna on social benefits and benefits for defenders. What else have you ignored in the public debate? People with disabilities. They proposed the abolition of discriminatory provisions on property and income censorship, which in many cases lead to the edge of the existence. We remind you that the right to a personal disability is recognised to a person with a severe disability or other severe and permanent changes in his health. In this way, we believe that the provisions on property or income censorship are discriminatory to persons with disabilities. In this way, the personal disability becomes a social category and does not meet the purpose set by law. Social sensitivity is one of the criteria of society as a whole, societies that care about their citizens, societies that do not degrade those who do not, societies that solve problems and do not turn their heads. That's why we want better Croatia. We are in times of challenges that require stability of society, unity, balance, trust and mutuality, mutual assistance. We want better Croatia and because of those 100,000 of our citizens who have left the country, better Croatia because of 300 thousand blocked, better Croatia because of all those unemployed. We do not want Croatia in charge of the last four years for 100 billion kuna, we do not want to be at the bottom of EU countries, we do not want Croatia in which the government owes us 400 kuna every second, every second of this government in power means a new responsibility for our country. At this point, each of us, each citizen owes 70,000 kuna. We want a better Croatia that will be in line with our tradition and beliefs, not these infantile delusions that try to convince us that our lives will change for the better in 14 days that are ahead of us, because if someone is not able to work in the public interest for four years or doesn't know or simply doesn't care. Package of the so-called package. Social measures will be a new life on debt and will all be paid by citizens because that is what the government has decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117583	Thank you. This debate is an absolute record recorder by the number of replicas it caused, but we'll hear it at 3:00. Stanka.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117584	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first replica and respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117585	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Glavak, really listening to your performance on behalf of the HDZ Club, a man has to say like this, he really needs to have a thick sole instead of cheeks and say everything you said in a classic pre-election speech in this hall. You've been referring so much to the memory of the citizens and that we think that the citizens forget and don't remember. So here's to supporting that memory of the citizens, then this is how it's supposed to be reminded. So the Brodosplit 28 million kuna affair, INA MOL 75.5 million kuna, HEP DIOKI 665 million kuna, Spice 401 million kuna affair, Planinska 26.4 million kuna affair, Pelješki bridge 170 million kuna, Postal Bank affair 280 million kuna, HZ affair 25 million kuna, FIMI-MEDIA 80 million kuna, the Hypo 140 million Austrian shilling affair, PET packaging of the affair 5 million kuna, the affair Chamber of Commerce 32 million kuna, the HAC affair is still being collected. So now, I ask in your style, remember what the citizens of Croatia could do with this estimated 2 billion and 485 million kunas irrevocably lost in the corrupt octopus that you, as HDZ, have allowed to expand in Croatia in 8 years of your rule and allow the robbery of these proportions. Let's remember what we could have done. You have not been able to bring, for example, a strategy to combat poverty in the Republic of Croatia in those 8 years, but you have been prepared and able and glare and do not see what happens in Croatia with this kind of robbery. That's how much, that's the only possible answer to this speech you've ever had on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117586	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Sobol, the figures at this time in 2015 say that Croatia has the highest number of unemployed young people among the countries of the European Union. The numbers speak equally no matter how much you want to show reality to a different reality that citizens don't actually live better. And they know very well what they can buy for 20 kuna. They know I can't buy a car for 20 kunas. They also know that my fellow citizens in Međimurje County have the lowest average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. Between 2.5 and 3,000 kuna, 30% less than the Croatian average. It's fellow Sobol what people know. People know their pensions are small, no one wants catastrophic forecasts. And none of us from the Croatian Democratic Community Club want a better country and a better Croatia. We all do. And I don't know how many times we've repeated to support any measure that goes towards improving the lives of citizens. We can't say after four years, there's 14 days or 20 days ahead of us, we'll change all that. We keep telling you to live better, only you don't see it. Fellow Sobol citizens are not naive, they remember both better and worse. But the political climate in Croatia has changed, the circumstances have changed, the economic environment has changed and in the last 4 years it is obvious that the people who led Croatia did not have the right answer to these issues and these problems. So once again, let's go back to reality and look straight at what it is today. People are curious about how they live today, what they can make possible for their children, what they can do with their incomes and what they can't do. They know very well what number they write at the end of the month on their accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117588	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Honorable representative Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117589	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Glavak, you said absolutely correct that this is the ministry of pulsism and this measure is pure pulsism. But it's not just the ministry of populism, but it's also the government of populism because when one term is over, whatever you do, then at the end of the term, you have to choose a team of people who will tell you what we've done in the past. However, behold wonders, this government or party in power formed a team for... HDZ, not to present what they were doing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's very hard and ugly to talk in Croatia today about how we've owed 100 billion new debt, that we've moved 100,000 people from Croatia, unfortunately. Someone said people weren't going out with a smile, they were crying, with a belly for bread. And my father, 40 years ago, went to Germany with a bread belly 50 years ago but he went as a physical worker and today young and educated people leave and who will be leading this Croatia for 20 years. All that you've said I agree with everything and after these results when all the independent analysts in Croatia say this is the worst government in history I don't know if the representatives of this government should even go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117590	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're right, colleague Kulusic, we're kind of spinning around this 100 grand or 100 billion. You know, it's hard for people to even imagine how much it is. What I said and in the debate of this kind of responsibility that we tried to somehow get under the radar to not get to the public tried to blur it all out and we're going to say we're going to solve the debt in Swiss francs. Well, for God's sake, these people had loans in Swiss francs three years ago, it wasn't such a drastic difference in course, but it could have been done. Here's an extraordinary session. It's said we have five points to help the citizens. We still didn't get this point at the extraordinary session, which is a burning issue and a burning problem for our citizens. So everyone's blocked. Those problems are here. We can't say they're gone. Ministers come to Međimurje County for the past 10 days a day and boast about the government's indicators. She was Minister Opačić the other day, I'm sorry she wasn't here and she didn't visit, for example, a Roma settlement. The issue of the Roma population is a couple of excellent issues in Međimurje County. It's a social issue, it's a security issue, it's an educational question. We prayed, we wrote that directly ministers join the Međimurje County cannot resolve it alone. Members of the Roma National Minority have their rights, have their own obligations and should be helped by someone from the state level. The Minister didn't see it, and she didn't want to hear it. I find it very rude when it comes to a county that has such a problem that it faces.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117592	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Đurjica Sumrak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117593	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you see this is another set of laws passed by this government and especially this part that we are discussing at this extraordinary session today. It's so-called. the creation of a general sense of pleasure. But what do they think they're gonna do with it? They insult the intelligence of Croats and Croats living in these four years, they insult intelligence because they believe that they will be all right, that they will be given 200 kn, so it will be much easier for them, so this will give them humanitarian help. And while we're at it, remember how compassionate they were here from the Ministry of Agriculture, and to this day there are no regulations, the law is inconclusive. And so this law will not be enforceable until the sixth month of next year because there are no regulations, no regulations. And then why are laws like this passed by emergency procedure unless you think you throw dust in people's eyes and say here, here's what's gonna be great, great. And when will it be? It doesn't matter. You'll forget it. It won't be forgotten, because if someone has compassion for this people, if someone knows what the problems are, then they're solved, and the problems aren't solved as quickly as you do by laying some cowardly eggs. No one can normally say it's wrong to help, certainly not. But it's not okay, it's not right that these laws don't know when, when will be implemented, and that means my dear Croats and Croats by at least six months next year according to this law. But you won't be in power for long, so you won't get a chance to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117594	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade twilight, you've detected only one of the problems. I partially touched that in my debate. What is a problem besides the fact that most of the legal provisions will come into force on 1 June 2016 is the observation of all employees in the social care system, which is that they are transferred to officials in the state administration to do the work they do neither know the system nor are they trained to do so. So we should've left the expertise to deal with what they know. When you talk about failures, when you're talking about something that hasn't been done, then I'm just going to do one parallel when we're talking about people who are having a hard time, who, for all sorts of reasons, have become in difficulty either financially or otherwise. The last such case is a failure, for example, that has been warned by counterpart Shuica in the European Parliament, which is that the government should have asked the EU for assistance after the Peljesac fire. So she repeatedly warned that she would eventually receive a reply from the President of the European Commission, Mr Junker, that the government had not asked for that assistance at all. So, there are numerous gaps where we haven't helped the citizens and we could, where the government has made a failure, and I'm afraid what else will happen with the Porceacan reserve in which it will be shared because here we read that now there will be money for the Christmases for the pensioners. At no time do we at the Croatian Democratic Community club have absolutely no objection to any measure being taken to help citizens, but let us act preventively, do something in advance, not two weeks after the Croatian Parliament's disbandment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117596	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Glavak, we heard from your side today that this is a session of election campaigns. Of course you and your discussion showed it. Namely, you call it the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Population. Four years of working to bring order into the system, you call it the Ministry of Population. For you, obviously, you can't even understand it. Why? So because for 8 years while your government was in power of the ministry, that is, social policy, it was actually drowned in the Ministry of Health. It's because you're minorizing, or you don't see any successes at all, or everything that's been done in this ministry. And I will remind you because of the truth and because of the citizens, I have to remind you that the introduction of the social care information system was one of the first projects when 80 welfare centres were actually tied up, it became a single base, a national base of over 300 thousand users. That digitization itself actually confirmed the existence of more than 7,000 errors, and that value, if we were to express it in cash, was over 40 million kuna. The introduction of this first measure also increased, speeded up the work, and also reduced the administration. Then it was the introduction of a guaranteed minimum fee. 1.1.2014 The social compensation has been united. You know in fact that there were more than 70 compensations and precisely because there were such large numbers and all those in charge were various bodies of the state administration, units of local self-government, which is why no rights could be created, to detect one real social image, or could not be. Thank you very much. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117598	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shimac-Bonačić, if you think I don't understand, I'm sure the citizens will understand very well. I'm sure they'll understand. You mentioned that the administration would be reduced, on the contrary, this is a new step towards a new administration. So I hope you know the system well. Only in large cities there are public administration offices, they are not strong enough to take over this job, they are not humanised. What are you telling me? So they'll be employed in a month, in the government's technical mandate? Don't speak, say some remarks, be specific. I've told you very specifically everything that people of the profession have given you, you don't have to finish nuclear physics to understand if you had 5 and now you have 2, for God's sake, that you have less than you had before. So this is how we move the ball as soon as possible, which was later. No, what matters now is what can be done for the citizens under the circumstances. The definition of populism is when you lose ground under your feet and when you lose support of citizens then it is precisely politics, which is political populism by definition it is then called upon to the people and to work on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117600	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Goran Maric replica. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear Representative Allen Prelec replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117601	Thank you, Mr. President... Thank you, Mr. President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear fellow Glavak, I listened to you for 15 minutes and in those 15 minutes it all comes down to the question of where you were for four years. The same way I would ask you a question where you've been for seven years while your Prime Minister Ivo Sanader stole this country and destroyed it? You clapped and you followed him. But I'm not gonna ask you that question, I'm just gonna stick to the subject. I didn't set it up, I'd just stick to the subject. For good moves, the fact that it is never too late can be passed the first month of office or in the last month of office. It seems to me that you really didn't stick to the subject and you didn't speak any of the nine significant points. And I will only mention to you what 9 points are important for the completion of this law: there is an increase in the amount of guaranteed minimum fees of 15% for single persons and for children from one parent family and children of single parents, the provisions under which a working user of guaranteed minimum remuneration is recognised for the longest period of 2 years and after that, can only be submitted after 3 months, the transfer of jurisdiction for the settlement of the right to a minimum fee for guaranteed state administration offices in the county of 1.6.6., the right of homeless persons situated at a stay at a minimum fee is prescribed that the right to a guaranteed minimum fee does not have those users who are recognised for the service of accommodation by a social care centre, while the saying that those homeless who are placed in a guaranteed minimum fee is entitled to a minimum of time to be paid for their stay, that they are entitled to a minimum amount of time of time of time for their stay and leave for their children. I didn't have enough time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117602	Thank you very much, dear colleague Prelec. Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Prelec, I'm sorry you're not still at work temperature, today is the first day, you've obviously managed only to hear my first sentence. So these other 14 minutes you haven't been able to catch it, so I'm just going to remind you what I was talking about, and that's the measure of this law. So I also reminded myself of the figures that were happening in 2014 when people were reduced by social giving, so then they got taken away and now they're giving them something. And that's what I was talking about. I'm sorry you didn't hear that. I'm really sorry. So, since 1 January 2014, 440 kunas have been taken, for example, to the seven-member family, there were 3 thousand kunas, and then there were 2 560 kunas. So figure out what a family can buy for it. So you took in two, not you personally, but that was the legislative framework that you brought among other things, voted in 2014 and 2015 230 million kuna. So now these measures will bring back 150 thousand kuna. So do you know, and if you don't know, I'll remind you that for the chambers of Minister Zmajlovic, every month it is paid out of the budget of 40,000 euros, so let's see if that money could have been spent more usefully and could it have helped people?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117604	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nada Murganic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117605	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Glavak, you said that in the public debates while the debate was mainly about the drafts in the field of social policy, the profession reacted and you mentioned that there were really a lot of objections about professional workers, clearly which were not included. I'm going to have to say no matter how characterized that, and we all know that a little bit that maybe the ministry so far from the field of social care, no matter what it was called, loved to staff as much as this call. In fact, the profession was very looking forward to getting it I must honestly admit, an independent ministry, but the quality of working with people on the ground is hardly anything. It's never been harder to reach any counselors, it's never been harder to communicate. The Ministry of Social Welfare himself initially had 72 employees, now there are over 330 of them, and they can freely say that they are people who do not know the law and are very hard to explain to them what social services are, but they are also quick to abolish these rights not only to individuals but to institutions. So I'm not saying this politically, this is what's called the measure of things. At first, it began to staff up, you know very well that the institutions were abolished, the centres were placed, 80% of the directors changed, and other personnel were focused on cementing their working relationships, and that's increasing personnel and these are burdens on the state budget, these are facts, and we all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117606	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117607	Well, buddy, you come from the base as you say and you know the system very well. You also know that social workers have been at least bitter because the definition of social work that all the laws should start from, that social work as a public activity of public interest comes from and I suppose involvement of the community and democratic control, and that it retains the fundamental principles of the social worker in the community and as a professional calling, their skills are used, the resources of the community and, of course, with good and fast legislation, and not in this way. On the one hand, we will now take away their powers, expect them to do their professional work, so social workers are not therapists, psychologists, sociologists or psychiatrists, they cannot be replaced by non-professionals. So we can't give it to anyone without insulting the clerk to decide such human fates. And when you mentioned the staffing, it wasn't just the case at the welfare centres, I'll just remind you how many hospital directors have been removed, how many sanitized managers, for example in Međimurje County we have already the third sanaciary manager in the county hospital, but let the man do, let him do well, but don't take a shot just because someone wasn't like him, and that was the whole point. that I'm not talking about national park staffing about people coming out of retirement, so they could be employed, without competitions being accepted into the state service, etc. So these are all the things that we can get through the debate, people will remember, but we have to point to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117608	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117609	Dear fellow Glavak, I am really surprised that you have the courage to talk in the Croatian Parliament about taking in the Croatian state. And I'd just like to remind you of what your maherras have taken in my town. There were 12 thousand workers in Jugoplastica, today there are zero, and Jugoplastics are gone in Shkver, there were 7 thousand workers, today there are 3 thousand, 4 missing, to mention Jugovinil is gone, Mesopromet is gone. What about the melioration, the... I'm only talking about one town, tens of thousands of missing jobs, that's what you took. You took the future of these people's children who lost their jobs. And your president, Mr. Karamarko, in the middle of Split, 11.1. Last year, says he is quoted as saying that HDZ's thieves are small mice. Besides being the man who first introduced zoology into Croatian politics and vocabulary political, I would tell him that these little mice ate and carried away that they probably became big elephants. You see, you've forgotten all this and you're saying here how this government took this, took that. To tell you the truth, I don't think I'm going to mention to you here Mr. Sanader, your leader who's where he is, with whom I've been running heavy political accounts around Brodosplit in Split, because I think that much worse are those of his guards from the HDZ court who licked his butts and pulled themselves over his laps later the first to bend down to take a stone and fall into his head and step on when he was on the floor, it disgusts me. And I appreciate more his friends who have remained faithful to him than those who have tried to continue to suckle up a position strong in HDZ that can only dream, if it is wise in this people to come to power again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117610	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't fight your nostalgia, you know the years are here, the nostalgia is what it is, and I won't fight it at all, and I won't let your memories and your memories remain yours alone. And now the memory of today, so colleague Jurjevic, do you know that every second this government owes us 400 kuna. That's what the experts calculated, that's not what we invented, which means every minute of this Croatian government costs 24,000 kuna. Do you know that the lowest employment in the last 15 years was in July of this year? Do you know that youth unemployment in Croatia remains among the highest in the European Union? We are talking about the present, let the nostalgia be where they are sung in songs in your beautiful Split, in Split-Dalmatia County where the Croatian Democratic Community runs the county, where great tourist results are achieved in Split-Zupanija thanks to the county's leadership. And you when you will invite us to Split we will gladly come and look and make a joyful distinction between my Međimurje and Split. Split, which has a much higher average salary than my Međimurje and my Međimurje, in which the government did not hand out and hat and help entrepreneurs, for example, to increase our social image. It's not the time to laugh, it may be for some of your dispensation, but here you know, in northern Croatia, we're a little calmer, we're more realistic, maybe we've seen things before, done it ourselves, and that's why we have the right to say what I'm talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117612	Thank you very much, dear Croatia. Dear representative Vanja Posavac Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117613	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. My colleague Glavak. Well, I'll agree that in your 15 minutes you said something about the law but very, very, very little. What's sad is that you used the Social Care Act to read the HDZ pamphlet. With a better Croatia, if I'm right, you've repeated it 36 times. It is unfortunate that this very law, I will not repeat myself to colleagues and colleagues who talk about helping those groups that are in a difficult situation you have used to call on HDZ to be wonderful and wonderful. You're calling on citizens to remember, so I hope they remember you honestly and remember your black bags. You're referring to something of the law and you're not talking about the law. In the last eight years of your term, you've only been very, very good at robbery. And your whole debate can be peopleally said my mouth praise me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117614	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish in 15 minutes I had more to say about the good side of this law, and there you are absolutely right. If I had, believe me, I would've used it well these 15 minutes. You've remembered it well and it's important, better Croatia, although mathematics is an exact science, so you should count this maybe you've multiplied something, I haven't said it so many times, but it's good that you've heard it. We want better Croatia than today. And when someone from the bench as a representative is insinuating the epithets of this or that, Mr. President, then each of us has the right to wonder how they have the nerve to say such difficult words to someone. Are you even a little embarrassed? We all have our families, we all have our parents, our fates, and it can be a shame for you to use the replica like this. We can always make arguments, we can, you can pull whatever you want, but you won't convince us that citizens live better. And we won't let you insult us. It's the lowest, and when you insult someone, it means you've lost every argument for some constructive political debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117616	Thank you very much. A respected counterpart, Nada Turina-Đuric, is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117617	Dear fellow Glavak, I understand that it's pre-election time and that this law is certainly a good basis for an opposition reaction like yours. But what I had a problem with while you were saying is that at no time since it was a social issue you didn't see that story in a broader context. So what we have in social today as a social state is not a product of either this government or the previous one, but a product of everything that has seemed to be in this country for the last 20 years. Since those 20 years, you know very well how long this coalition that has power today has power and how much power the HDZ has. And that at no point did you imagine anything, nor did you feel ashamed that everything you did and you contributed to the situation that is today in the social situation in Croatia. And all the time you were talking about how ashamed we should be. And I'm not surprised that some of the colleagues here have reacted in the way they've reacted and listed dozens and dozens of events that have been in the past 20 years that have made citizens, unfortunately citizens and this country very poor, and that now just here in the last six months we see that some light is being monitored at the end of the tunnel, that we have some plus, and that we can take these steps and do such bill proposals as it is today. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117618	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you guys said we were a social state. We don't want to be a social state, we want to be a socially sensitive state, we want to be a state that will have fewer citizens who will have to receive so-called. Social aid. That's what we want. Well, I guess that's the goal of every innate system of every government. If it's not, then there's something serious about the problem. My colleague, why should shame be a category of one political party, so why are you not ashamed? So why aren't you ashamed of your secretary who ironed credit cards? Isn't that a class of shame? So, please, how can you say that? Well, they don't have people's credit cards so they can get them official, so they can get them through. It's not a class of shame. ... Yeah, it's patented just for you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you're ashamed of what you did from Varazdin, from Varazdin County, which is what your party did there. You're ashamed of it. So let each one go away from himself, and let him look at his mistakes first, and let him indicate or look at another's yard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117620	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boris has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117621	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glavak, here we are half a day, half a debate, I still don't know who will pay for this because neither the government nor the Croatian citizens know, we don't know in the Parliament, we don't even know the ruling majority, but we are talking and I keep asking who will pay these 200 million kunas because we have heard some different solutions. So far, all the failures of this government have been paid by citizens. 100 billion public debt will be paid by Croatian citizens and our grandchildren. I remember the time in 2011 when we were at 48% of the public debt share in GDP, on the other hand an ultimate request was made for the government's resignation. Today at 90%, when we're close to 90% of the public debt in GDP, we have to clap on the most incompetent government in the world, the sixth from behind. I know it's not easy to work and be in the company of Mauritania, Chad and all those others who are there at the end. But we're always warning what social sensitivity is and we're offering a solution here today. We offer a solution but they don't want to hear it. We claim that they took 5.5 billion to increase 25% of electricity in 2012, that HEP piles up profits and that from those 2 billion and 700 from last year there is room for these 200 million kunas not to be burdened by citizens, all citizens. I claim responsibly that by applying this law and the one we're going to discuss later, it's the new 13 limes per kilowatt. All those who will pay them, and those who are the poorest, will pay them, that the effect of these 200 kunas in a year, that this household has a poor refrigerator, TV and another spender, can be any water heater, oven, it will spend more than 1500 kilowatts a year, many more than that. When you multiply it by 13 limes you'll get more than 200 kuna without VAT, so we'll take it from you. We give you 200 kuna, but in a year we'll take 250. So what did you gentlemen get, dear?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117622	Thank you, dear fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117623	Either give up one law or the other or both.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117624	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, the answer is very simple. All of this will be paid by Croatian citizens. If you look at the phonogram from the government's session when this was discussed, the competition of Minister Vrdoljak and Prime Minister Milanovic were still on the move by explaining that it would cost nothing to the state budget because it would be paid by the citizens. If it's not clear to anyone then they've made it very clear. I'll fight another thing, only when you're talking about the necessary growth so there's no confusion. At this rate to reach, for example, 2008 will take us 30 years. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117626	Thank you very much. And the new, last replica of the esteemed colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117627	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been a long time since that euphoric debate you had here by your colleagues, Glavak. This euphoric debate was probably used on behalf of the HDZ Club as a stage of a pre-election campaign for our citizens who could follow this session directly. Now a little bit in the afternoon and your rhetoric has calmed down and you're trying to speak more specifically. It is difficult to speak here today more concretely when you have called this government and all of us who support this government and ask us if we strive to enlighten and enlighten the Croatian people. Are you colleagues Glavak even aware of what was the enlightening ideal of man? Are you aware that this is exactly the one that acts by principle above all knowledge, ethics and morality? And then in such frameworks as you are asking us questions today and seeking better Croatia, back to the end of 2011, we return at a time when Croatia is committed to this coalition government I will say robbed, committed without any valuable ideals, without morals. It was Croatia where the political elites that were above the law ruled. Today's Croatia is much, much better than the one you left for us in 2011. In today's Croatia, we are all equal before the law, there is no protection. And why, because 3.5 years of things have been resolved, the system has been arranged today for Croatia to record economic growth, that economic growth that could not be continued there in 2008 not only because Croatia was surrounded by the economic crisis but because Croatia was robbed and it is clear to all that Croatia was robbed in the term of HDZ, in the term of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117628	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, buddy, you know the technology's advanced, so if there's no transmission on TV screens, it doesn't matter at all. People can follow the Internet wherever they are to see what's going on, and I think you've got the wrong person on whom you're telling them that it's important for her to be on television. But aside from that. They wanted to teach something, so you said the system was fixed. The system is so beautifully arranged that we have ranks on train and bus stations where people are moving us. The system is so brilliantly arranged that we have doctors and nurses leaving, the system is so greatly arranged and I have already said that no one is malicious and that we look forward to anything that brings optimism. That's what we keep saying. And that we need together to achieve some good goals and you remember well, I'm glad you all remembered better Croatia. That's what we need! I'm really glad that you've been able to read it, obviously it's important that you've been able to read it out of my debate. So, fellow citizens' standards have been down more than 10% in the last three years. People for the same money can't buy the same things and make the same things they could have done four, five years ago. And that's true. People look at their wallet, see what's at their disposal, and they know what they can do. They can no longer go to banks and borrow as when they run out in the state budget of money to service obligations you go and hire citizens so as it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117630	Thank you very much. Says one Chinese wisdom that a smart man does not care what he is now but is waiting for him in the future. And now we're going to listen to a five-minute deputy minister on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is Maja Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117631	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, I'd just like to explain, some of the incorrect findings have been made, so most of all, for the sake of the citizens. It is incorrect to conclude that all the provisions of this law are to be entered into force on 1.6.6. Only provisions on a single cash center. Provisions relating to energy compensation and this increase in guaranteed minimum fees by 15% shall take effect 8 days from the day of publication. In fact, I think it's quite responsible to count on what we've been counting on for winter and it's in our interest that energy compensation comes to people before winter, before the heat season, before the days are shorter. Another thing I'd like to remind myself of is that some of the representatives remember it, it wasn't that long ago. But as an introduction, I'd like to mention a personal disability. Several times today, energy compensation has been said to refer to those citizens who are guaranteed minimum fees and those who are users of personal disability. Well, when the personal disability was introduced as a right to the welfare system, then the Ministry of Health and Social Care wrote the provision as follows. The right to a personal disability has a severe physical or mental impairment or a person with severe permanent health changes, and if such damage or illness occurred before the age of 18. So they remain entitled to a personal disability for some vague and unknown reason, then it was created to acquire only those physically or mentally disabled persons who had suffered until the age of 18. After 18 no one, you don't have a personal disability. Of course, in 2005, one proposer submitted a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision in Article 55 of the Social Care Act at the time as an equivalent example of discrimination by age, a final discriminatory provision as a provision that is in a rough conflict with essential constitutional and legal values and the principle of equality for all before the law. It was waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision, waiting about 5.6 years. However, the court made its decision, gave the applicant the right and abolished the provision of Article 55 in that section, which reads: "If such damage or disease occurred before the age of 18 and could be accepted by all by abolishing that part of the provision." Well, in addition to that, I would only point out that the users of the personal disability on the eighth day since the entry into force of this law are also entitled to energy compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117632	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Sporish, I'm sorry that you haven't been here since the beginning, maybe it wasn't directly related to my debate. However, the fact was that in the debate, too, nearly fifty articles of legislation adopted today are in effect in the emergency procedure of 1.6.6. I think it's clear to everyone and we've repeated it a few times. However, when you talk about personal disability, once again, we believe that the provisions on property or income censorship are discriminatory to persons with disabilities, because that way personal disability becomes a social category. That's what we talked about and we stand behind it, and that's what many associations have warned you about. Those who took part in the consultation with the interested public were equally dissatisfied that none of their numerous objections and suggestions were accepted, but they were equally not adequately justified by their refusal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117634	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss this topic by the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives and distinguished colleague Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117635	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So today we are facing amendments to the Social Care Act in an emergency procedure that we at the SDP club support and consider important and necessary. Since the adoption of the new Social Welfare Act from 2013 in about a year and a half of its application, certain shortcomings have been observed, and there have been shortcomings in the ability to meet individual categories of our citizens. And in this regard, we support the government's efforts to help those citizens who are most exposed to the risks of poverty to ease their difficulties and improve the quality of their lives. These are our citizens who receive guaranteed minimum compensation primarily when it comes to male and single-parent families or children of single parents. As already pointed out in her opening statement by the Ministers, according to the proposal for these amendments when it comes to increasing the compensation for singles working incompetents, this means that from the current 800 kuna, the fee increases to 920 kuna. It may well be in this place to remind all of us that, immediately in the first year of her term, this government increased that compensation for singles from 600 to 800 kuna, and here she has not changed until today. We also welcome the abolition of the current provision of the law under which a working person who receives a guaranteed monthly fee of 800 kuna was automatically abolished after 2 years. Since Croatia is just coming out of recession, we expect only the full effect of the current good economic indicators, that this is coming to us, that the crisis has lasted many years and that still part of our citizens is not able to find a job in a relatively reasonable time and we welcome the abolition of such restrictions from the applicable laws. Because the loss of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee would leave that category of citizens without any income. When talking about children from a single parent family and children of single parents, compensation is also increased from 320 to 440 kuna per month. We should repeat that today in Croatia there are 3103 children who belong to a category that is particularly at risk of poverty. A particularly important item of these amendments to the Social Care Act is the introduction of a new compensation into the social care system and this is a compensation for the threatened customers of energy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Energy laws as particularly endangered customers are detected users of personal disability and users of guaranteed minimum fees. This will cover about 73,000 households, or about 150,000 citizens. When we adopted a new Social Care Act here in the Croatian Parliament in 2013, one of the main highlights was on a fairer and more transparent social care system. And today's changes that we're discussing are the result of that. During and this year, the social care system is fully consolidated and the number of social care users now corresponds to a real number of citizens who are really poor and need exactly social support. Since the system is a rationalised part of the amount remaining can be rerouted to those most vulnerable categories of citizens. One of the most important changes that are proposed is the transfer of responsibilities for resolving the right to guaranteed minimum benefits from the social care centre to state administration offices in the counties. This directly means the disbursement of social care centre professionals who will then, instead of administrative and administrative financial affairs related to the administration of this fee, be more and more able to deal with individual professional work with users. These changes are also the beginning of the creation of single compensation centres, which is also part of the long-term fiscal consolidation reform measure adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014/2016. A year. By 2018, according to the plan in these offices, the administration would be of guarantee of minimum remuneration, benefits for the unemployed, all maternity and parental support outside of the work system and allowances for children. And for all of this, 12m euros were secured from the loan of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And when citizens in one place can get all the solutions they need, this means that we have ultimately made it easier for citizens in the process of achieving their rights, reducing costs due to the now existing electronic exchange of data between the state administration body and the local self-government unit and the state in one place has a view of all the rights which, therefore, resulting from the means to exercise the rights that go from the state budget to the citizens. Today during the debate, I think I want to say on behalf of the SDP Club, I think that some of the other changes that are proposed through these amendments and additions to the Social Care Act are completely neglected, and I think only in one line is mentioned. But I think it should be said that the right of the homeless, when we talk about the rights of the homeless who are placed at a lodging on a guaranteed minimum fee, namely those homeless people who are stationed, are placed at the lodgings, are entitled to a guaranteed minimum fee. So this is something that I hope in the future will no longer come to the wrong and different interpretations in administrative courts. It also allows for the right to a personal disability and an allowance for assistance and care is granted to a child under one year of age, which has been disabled under the current law. Then, a provision that regulates the status of foster parents is added, increasing the maximum weekly number of hours of psychosocial support service. So these are all the changes that bring us this proposal that we've been discussing since this morning. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say this, if the adoption of this law, including the other laws that we will discuss at this extraordinary session, but also at the regular session that follows us, is called by individual clubs or representatives by the pre-election campaign and the collection of political points, that is, of course, the right of these clubs, or those individuals. However, there is an irrefutable fact, and I guess we are all aware that, unfortunately, in Croatian society too, there are poor people, there have been them, and unfortunately there will be them. And that no one can know exactly whether or not we will eradicate poverty to the end. But also one can't erase another irrefutable fact, which is that this government, Zoran Milanovic's government, has adopted a strategy to fight poverty. But not only that, in March of last year but it adopted a detailed programme with all measures, so the implementation of this strategy is something that is achieved through various measures and legislative proposals persistently and systematically which we have already discussed, we are discussing one part today and we are going to debate until, in the end line and this current assembly is disbanded. Does this mean that we bring measures 5 months, 6 months, 2 months, a month or a week before the election it absolutely cannot be a restriction that we do not try in every way possible to help those who are most needed in society. I said the strategy was adopted in March last year, and a detailed elaborated programme with all measures and deadlines was adopted at the end of last year. In fact, the main objectives of the fight against poverty are realised within 8 strategic areas, and among other things, since we are discussing this today, and in that section concerning housing and availability of energy and access to social benefits and services. And basically all these goals, all these measures are carried out through a series of ministries. For each individual strategic activity, the measures currently being implemented or planned until the end of 2016 are defined, as this programme refers to 2014-2016. The programmes are financed through state budget, EU funds, other international funds and the implementation measures planned for a period of three years, according to currently available material and human resources under conditions and economic crisis and poorer demographic trends, with realistic assessments for possible implementation. And I think this is one of the most important things that no one has talked about today. Because then this means that there is the possibility and adjustment of the implementation programmes, possibly on changed circumstances and standards. From the data that you can read, just to take that strategy and to see, the measures that have been implemented so far turns out that over the past year, the 78 measures envisaged in this area have been implemented 56 fully, and some have been complemented and changed. For example, thanks to larger funds than Croatia's lottery, money is provided precisely for warm meals for children in schools, for the help of children in learning and the transport of elderly people in the environments that are traffic-insulated. One of the measures against poverty is what was done a few days ago, which is that it was secured from the European Social Fund 72 million kuna for, say, assistants in the follow-up. Which means they've secured funds for 1988 assistants for 2379 students. The comparisons, for example, should be remembered that 290 assistants were provided in 2011. So all I'm talking about on behalf of the club is something, this process and the implementation of measures to pass legal solutions is something that simply shouldn't be stopped, regardless of whether we're ahead of the election for a week, a month, two months. Due to the category of citizens who adopt such laws and measures, it would be good for us to all raise our hands in this Croatian Assembly for these laws because it is really about categories of citizens who are objectively the most vulnerable and most exposed to the risks of poverty. Once again, on behalf of the SDP club, we will support the amendments and additions to the Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117636	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first is Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117637	Thank you very much. My colleague Sobol would support this law, even I could say that I was a little overly optimistic when I said how much these three spend, TV, refrigerator and water heater. There are tables, there are values that they spend in an hour, 24 hours times 365 days, so now we can say that one TV spends an hour 0,07 and a yearly about 700 kW, a refrigerator 876 kW, and a water heater that only works an hour, and spends an hour 2 kW each year spending about 730 kW. Let's just touch it, let's not look at the iron, oven, washing machine, dishwasher, etc. Only these three, when we apply these two laws, these 3 June ones we're discussing and these 10 who are now coming to the debate, that's 2,300 kilowatts of a minimum times 13 of new charges for those poor people you're talking about. When you multiply it all together somewhere around 332 kunas per year more plus VAT to that 25% that's another 82 kuna total, over 400 kuna more through these two laws and for that poor household you're talking about. If you give them 200, can you figure out how much you helped them, how much you helped them? Well, you better not make laws like this if you want to help them, you better not. We really ask that you do not do this because you will put them in an additional cost of at least 200 kuna in a year. It's very easy to calculate, so there are tables how much it costs, how much kilowatt energy, cheaper, more expensive tariffs. So do it and propose this law and tell us from which sources and transfer it to this HEP that is going to be some kind of profit there and again you want to burden all citizens and it's clear that you with these calculations and with these new charges will take another 200 kunas if you don't and no more that you don't even start any other spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117638	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117639	I can see that you have made an effort so you went to calculate, I am not an expert in calculating consumption this way, but I cannot believe that you will not support the introduction of therefore this new social compensation that will allow each family receiving a personal disability, i.e. the guaranteed minimum fee to be paid for the consumption of energy. I just can't believe it, but of course you can afford it, so then you explain it to those people whose 200 kuna, those 200 kuna colleagues, Boric must mean a lot more to you than maybe 2,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117640	A new replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117641	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Sobol, you mentioned, among other things, an election campaign, so if we are to be honest about the election campaign, the minister, a colleague, if he can do so, also told the minister that out of opposition we were going to do the election campaign. So I don't see why we wouldn't be warning me that this is also a kind of pre-election campaign, and that's before you say it's a positive definition of a threatened buyer. So now I'm going to remind you, even though I was already saying that on behalf of the club, the Energy Act has been passed by this government, in this assembly of the Parliament, 19.10.2012, so you've prescribed it, you've defined your deadlines and set a deadline of 6 months for the adoption of this regulation. That's not exactly something you should brag about and be proud of. I understand your role, though, the position that you have to discuss on behalf of the club, but this wasn't exactly something that you should point out as a positive example.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117642	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117643	So, fellow Novak, if you've listened carefully to me, I've said exactly if some clubs and individual representatives of this law and the laws that we're just going to discuss until the Parliament's disbandment are called a simple pre-election campaign and by collecting political points, that's your right. I literally said it like that. For us, this is not a pre-election campaign, but it's just a series of measures and everything we've started to do since the adoption of a strategy to fight poverty. Systemically, therefore, planned in the way it is drawn up in the strategy and in the programme. And if you want to, then I guess when you say that we're doing all this before the end of our term, then I'm going to ask if it was a pre-election campaign, let's say that, here I was mentioning a singles fee from 600 to 800 kuna a few years ago, or let's say that the right three months of the term of office of this government made a decision on free transportation for students. Was that a pre-election campaign back then?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117644	Third replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, certainly this is an election campaign, but it is your right, no one can challenge you, because if it weren't for the election campaign then the law that was passed in 2013 as it was just said here and in which the shortcomings were observed must have changed before and certainly this problem would have been solved earlier. Well, that's not why I answered. I got back from one other thing, you were talking about a part of the welfare center's business being transferred to the state administration offices around the county. Will it end at the end of new jobs, will it be a new package of pre-election jobs? To that I mean a very clear and concrete answer, I failed to understand from your debate what would be the result. Because if there's not gonna be any new employment, then it means that by now those offices had nothing to do, and they probably had something to do. So obviously things are being helped that way again because we are witnessing that some competitions are little and new jobs are opening up. You see, if less of these jobs were to be opened, much more could be helped by those who needed it. So please answer very specific about whether it will be the opening of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117646	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117647	You referred questions to the wrong address of your colleague Hrg, you could have been here today, and you could have referred these questions to the Minister or I don't know who. But when I was talking about the state offices taking over part of what workers at social care centres are now doing, we think it's in one place to unify all fees, so that's what I listed in my presentation on behalf of the club that I believe you've heard, will help and be, therefore, it will mean greater and faster availability to the citizens to whom it applies, and on the other hand there will be a discharge in social care centres. These provisions of the law relating to the establishment of such a part of the state administration, those are the parts of the law that will enter into force in 1.6.6 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117648	On behalf of the National Minority Club, the Honorable Veljko Kajtazi will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117649	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies, respected colleagues and colleagues. National minorities in the Republic of Croatia have had high expectations of our country's entry into the EU. The people I represent had the wrong picture or hope that all their life problems will be solved when we become part of the European family. Instead, there has been stagnation in the quality of their lives, and many will say that the situation is much worse than it was. Since the vast majority of members of the Roma National Minority, which I represent in one way or another, is involved and depending on the welfare system that is good in our country but still we still have significant problems that we always warn about. Whenever such an important law is changed, I feel a special responsibility to highlight the problems my constituents are warning me daily and asking for help. Since I'm not using an official vehicle and I'm not using many privileges, I'm driving on a tram and other public transportation people stop me every day and warn me of the difficult living conditions they live in. This time just before the elections, many try to use it to promote themselves, to get the voter's favor through quick resolution, and to offer those most vulnerable empty promises. Instead of the promise, I offered a solution to the problem, while most in the big campaign are me and my associates still working on the burning problems of the community, legalisation, social issues etc. And that's my campaign that's been going on since the start of the term of office. For many people I talk about, the unemployed, the ones who take advantage of the country for their own mess and so on, and we all know that the economic situation in our country is still very unfavourable and that this is the main cause of the existential problems our fellow citizens face. They are called unemployed, ignoring the fact that they cannot get a job because they are members of the Roma national minority, for the state they are a burden, and ignoring the fact that jobs are being closed. They're called social cases, and they're ordinary people who fight daily and work to survive more than employees. In the end, I come to a situation where they're called privileged, and it's about the most endangered. I'd say they work 24 hours a day, looking for ways to survive and make it possible for themselves and their family to exist. I welcome and support this bill although we believe that much could have been done before. A provision of the Social Care Act that provides for minimum compensation to be accepted for a maximum of two years, and that new requirements can be submitted after the end of three months has proved to be very bad. Instead of motivateing citizens, they are pushed into further poverty by such a provision. In a developed country, such a provision would make sense, but the fact is that our citizens are not lazy and unmotivated but limited to the current bad economic situation that does not control the end. Most citizens would be very happy to work and care for their families, but I can't do that. Therefore, the removal of the provision of the longest period on which a working user of social assistance can recognise the right to a guaranteed minimum fee is firmly supported, i.e. I support that the threatened persons achieve all social benefits until they are allowed to find a job, and this applies to all national minorities who come to work even harder than the majority population. Compared to all the other minorities, we also have a Roma national minority who comes back to work harder than everyone else. Furthermore, I support that single parents increase the amounts they receive because such families are particularly threatened as if they are increasing the minimum fees for other citizens who belong to the most vulnerable group in society. The proposed status of a threatened buyer, which would introduce a special fee for threatened energy customers, also welcomes it, and I think it is a short and temporary solution, especially considering families with more children who spend more money on energy. We have had problems with wrong estimates before, for example, because of the abolition of social assistance for people who own private cars, which is particularly poorly reflected on the Roma National Minority, which is mostly equipped with modest vehicles worth several thousand kunas, which depend largely on their lives because of the distance of their settlements as well as traffic and any other isolation. When they are sick or something they need to do in the city, it is their only ride, and school buses of course cannot be used as adults. until public transport has been provided to cover all endangered categories of such provision is not good and must be abolished. As we now lift the bad provisions from the existing law, I hope that we will lift this provision as soon as possible and allow the Roma to own their own cars. Instead of such small things, I hope that we will be more concerned with the long-term solutions that we lack. Some 20-year-old car won't... people, and neither will the state get out of the crisis. Likewise, Roma and other national minorities will not draw 100 or 200 or 500 kuna from the crisis but an equal opportunity to school, get a job and work. We are entering another electoral process, and we have not nearly met the goals that we set ourselves, for example with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, i.e. with the right of members of national minorities to represent themselves in representative and executive bodies at national and local level, as well as in the bodies of state administration, judicial authorities and bodies of the unit administration of local and regional self-government. Or simpler, when you saw a Roma woman or a Roma woman employed in some state service. There are almost no such examples, even at local level. Also so-called. working through public works organised by the Croatian Employment Service is not a good enough solution because, by definition, a short-term measure. After Roma have been employed through these public works for 3 to 6 months, they are back on welfare. Members of the Roma national minority covered by this programme have shown that they are willing and able to work, and yet on the other hand it turns out to be punishable. In addition to very quickly losing that ability to work coins are so small in relation to the level of social assistance to be combined with abolishing it during that temporary employment poses a question of whether it is better to work or not. Workable Roma make them disabled instead of workers. Measures that would encourage minorities, as well as all other citizens, especially young people to try to get a job are insufficient and those who work do not make enough resources to live with dignity. It is unacceptable that the vast majority of income is spent on food and on personal needs and that it is not enough to survive again. I repeat once again, it seems that in our country, instead of rewarding for work, you get punishment and frustration. This chronic poverty in the Roma community takes a particularly bad dimension and rarely results in extreme examples of child abduction and similar situations. If the state takes away children from working people because they can't take care of them, then the state has failed. I want to repeat that I support this bill, that it is good because it facilitates the situation for our citizens but it does not solve it. These past few years have been difficult for everyone, and I think a lot more should have been done for the most vulnerable. Instead of dealing with political bickering in the next period, I hope that we will see more competitions between parties and responsible parties, who will help citizens more, not who will entertain them more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117650	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Kajtazi, I would ask you without any objection to tell me if you have any information on the unemployment rate that is general in Croatia around 20, between 20% and 25% compared to the Roma community. Do you have that kind of information, what is the unemployment rate in the Roma national community?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117652	The reply to the replica, Reverend Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117653	I have to tell you that we don't have accurate data, but we have speculation. When it comes to members of the Roma national minority through public works back in 3.5 years, we are trying to employ the Roma, but it is a short-term measure. In the case of state institutions, of course, there are only two Roma employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117654	On behalf of the HDSSB, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. The late radio reporter from sports events Ivan Tomic used to tell a big scam by little Mark thinking of Mark Mlinarić, a football player named Dinam, who was a great football player. Perhaps this legal proposal could also be called a big trick by little Zoka. And why do I say that? This whole dispute today regarding whether this law is a pre-election trick and a pre-election law in order to please voters and some voters, or whether it is some kind of office measure and a law that goes according to the urgent procedure as the first and second reading, even caused before the extraordinary session of the Assembly. So he's one of the reasons we have an extraordinary session of the Parliament. I thought these extraordinary sessions were only when it comes to budget rebalancing, war or some general danger to the Croatian state, and not these laws that are on the agenda this week. Al, in the next legislative proposal that goes to the agenda after this debate, we are talking about the collection of electricity for consumers, consumers of 10 lips per kilowatts, and then this 200 kuna measure for some categories, so those who have disabilities are also high for those who use this so-called. guaranteed minimum or minimum, and here is the smallest proposal to use the Croatian language at last in the Croatian Parliament, so to allow them 200 kuna to cut the electricity bill, but he will pay it as my colleague Boric said, and he calculated it well, with the following legal proposal about 13 June even after further. So they will actually cover those 200 kn that the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Zoran Milanovic, will forgive them in the future. And what to say to the question of a lady who wrote to me, here's Mira R. and says, "Dear Mr. Grubisic, please ask a question on my behalf Mrs. Opacic, which she doesn't have, but she can also ask the deputies. If we citizens who separate from our mouths and regularly pay the electricity to pay bills for those who can't, then I ask whether the Minister or someone from the Government will pay for my water that I can't pay for because I have to pay for electricity and water. As much as I can pay, and then I go red." That's what Mrs. Mira R asked. She didn't sign it, and I can hand over this paper, and she sent it to me by email. And in the end, it's not the end but the beginning of what you actually say about all this? It is about palitative measures, but there is no deepening and no light at the end of the tunnel how to actually bring the Croatian state, Croatian citizens, the Croatian people into a situation to reduce actually the causes of poverty. What is it that led to poverty? For six years, it has been said that Croatia was in recession, and after leaving the recession on Friday, so said the Minister of Optimism, excused the Minister of Regional Development, that, I watched Dnevnik and said one minister to the optimism Thursday at the main shock log says tomorrow we left the recession. It's like Christmas tomorrow, so at midnight, there's a recession, and tomorrow, when Christmas dawn or New Year's Eve, we're out of recession. It was one Friday. I just don't know which one. That's right, it was Friday when we left the recession, I don't know what date it was. However, in Brod-Posavina County, watch out for Brod-Posavina County, the head of the Department of Education worked hard to calculate how many children were released from schools, primary schools in this school year. In this school year, 240 children were released from ship-to-work schools. Where'd they go? They went with their parents to Ireland, England, Germany, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, etc. 200, 8 classes of children are written out. They went to school last year were in classes, this year and the same children are not in the Schools of Brod-Posavia County, 240 children. So I wonder if these measures will help keep children out, that still our people mainly from Slavonia so massively with families. It's not temporary work in Ireland. It's going with a woman, children, and parents all the way to a foreign country where they don't really intend to or will never come back. Or when they return, their double pensions will be taxed by this country here, that double Ireland and Croatia, at a high rate, so that they do not like it or return to Croatia. Why doesn't that taxation of pensions to foreign pensioners be abolished? Well, they'll spend that money here, pay the VAT when they spend the money here. And they won't check out in foreign countries and they're taking pensions in Munich and I don't know where they don't have to come here at the expense of these banks so they don't have to pay taxes. And there's the money, just cut the rate. There's money, we didn't have to buy 1,000, this government didn't have to buy 1700 cars. Or it is a support to one country's producers to give their vote for Croatia's EU accession. Is that the price? Is it a price to buy a lot of smart phones, stamping cards? Is the price of this poverty more than the prime minister's salary, greater than the salary of the vice president and president of the parliament. Whether the severances received by one in Croatia are insurance amounting to one million euros. Is he such an important manager that his severance fee, although he has no years to retire and is relatively young, receives a million euros in severance fee, about a million euros. Or another from the INA who received exactly one million euros in severance when he retired. Well, that's two million euros. Even though I don't keep counting on part-time jobs that are given to various companies like FIMI Media, it's nothing different, maybe a little more sophisticated than not to be noticed right away. How many operating contracts does this government have for consulting services? How much we paid for consulting for outsourcing, for the sale of Croatian insurance, for the masterplan of Croatian hospitals and for a number of other plans that have failed which this government did not achieve. Let's sum up this money all and you'll see there's money for a lot more and resources than this social law on social rights of some categories of our population offers. That's it, that's why I'm a little bit bitter, because here we were getting packed by both the minister and the prime minister when we proposed some social measures. Then we were politicians, then we were demagogues, then we were populists, and I don't know what we were. That's when they say it's better black bread than white bread. Like Maria Antoinette, if you don't have bread, eat the muffins or cakes don't matter. And that's the kind of statement that's been made. And that black bread is much better because it is more nutritious. And that we are not everything and all that is ironic and not to say very enraged by the Croatian words of the minister. I have proposed an amendment for hungry school children for this year's money to be singled out, said there are no hungry school children except here and there a Roma something in Međimurje and I don't know where. A million-and-a-half amendment was rejected, just a million-and-a-half kuna. It's not even enough, but at least symbols to show this government that it has a social sense, that it has a sense of sociality in it. It's called the Social Democratic Government, and it's actually the most liberal it can be, the blackest liberal option that can even rule a country. So now you tell me that this isn't pre-election. So why do you defend yourself so much from it? Why do you defend yourself so much, what difference does it make that they attack you? You'll get through it, and that's it! You have a majority, you don't care if someone tells you it's a pre-election campaign and a law that goes to pre-election purposes. Oh, my God! Let them talk! He's lying to the village, they're lying to people, so to speak, in Slavonic terms. What you are so concerned about is that someone is attacking you that it is a pre-election law, a law that goes for pre-election purposes or for the purpose of strengthening the popularity of a party coalition or one party. What's legalization? How much money did you use to legalize our farmers to count on a barn that has 200 or 300 square feet of height in the volume of one villa that someone has at sea? And you got the rich. It's more expensive to legalize a barn than a villa that has 200 squares. It's more expensive to legalize a farm that has 200 squares. We asked you here, and we asked HDZ, that the agricultural facility is a manufacturing facility, that someone produces something, that this is something that is useful for both peasants and the state and society. You didn't accept, no one accepted. Instead, you rob the Croatian village, all together, both of you with these legalization measures. That is exactly what it can be called a Croatian village robbery, the destruction of the Croatian village. Well, it's meant for someone to ruin the Croatian village. So how much did you ask for the Minister of Agriculture? You couldn't find him with your hair to catch him. You didn't know who you'd be. You're not interested in that, Croatian village. It doesn't matter to you. Now look at Slavonia. And then you wonder, you come to Slavonia and wonder what's going on with Slavonia. So it is not a problem to destroy the Croatian village and Slavonia. If you destroy the village, then you destroy Slavonia, of course. For 6 years, children leave the school for engineers in Zagreb, 6 years old. None of them, 180 of them came out one grade, none of them in six years, two HDZ authorities and four SDPs, none of them got a six-month service. I talked about it and I talked about it, he knows Mr. Novak, he's not here. He's an expert in railways. And here's thank God you're listening to something, so you've called the competition now. You're not bored, you didn't even know that, so that's a social case. And those kids who are 18 to 24 are sitting at home and going to cafes. Is that a social case? Is that a social problem if they can't at least do an internship of those six months? Yes! But that doesn't occur to you until you're told here from the pay phone. It didn't occur to you to give an internship to anyone. For 6 years, 6 classes, 180 engineers in Croatia have no day of work and no internship at all. You haven't received any new engineers. How much do you pay to a cop's severance when he retires? Do you know how much? Does one of the MPs know how much a cop gets when he retires his severance fee? Three salaries of three thousand kuna, ten thousand kuna. How much did Vojkovic get when he left Croatia or Dragicevic from the INA? Millions of kunas! That's the way it is. And these are social measures that must be harsh and strict. How much money has been paid back from thieves who ended up in prisons, if I don't talk about Sanader now, I won't even mention names so they don't get me rooting for any party. How much money has been paid back? ... You caught that, so what you caught was that it wasn't received, you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Drmic told you before, yes, he meant to give money bribes to Glavas, he meant to give and he didn't receive anything. And corruption is when something is received. So you distinguish that thing, you understand. And friendship can't be paid with anything, remember that. And you don't have any friends. Therefore, to ease poverty, to improve the country's economic status. How many investments have you made in the first place? A little chat story as soon as he sat on the chair of the investment story. What investments? HEP? 2.5 billion kuna gains in 2014 have and will now be around 2015. We talked about hydropower plants both in Drava and Slavonia, in Sava and in Senj and thermal power plants on coal at the most lagging energy and dirtiest which can be in the world, so in Ploča and Plomino, in the touristic area and paradise of our Adriatic, the more perhaps colleague Holly will tell you what it looks like. Germany, when coal is disgusted, about Birmingham, not to speak, has been solved long ago. Only Croatia, someone took the money for it, and now it's hard to pull out. I'm not insinuating, but why such a hard-core and persistent insistence on the plates of the thermopower plant and on Plomin C? It's the only reason, the other thing can't be the reason. I don't see any other reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117656	Time. Thank you. Replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117657	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have said many things here and asked a special question of reducing the number of children in schools to leave Croatia outside. Well, they're not those people anymore, the parents of those children are not interested in the laws passed before the elections because they won't vote anymore. More interesting are the ones who stayed here. You know, the parents of those children are probably leaving because where they go to pay for smaller VAT on food, they'll probably have free textbooks on their school benches when their kids come to school and the social picture will probably get better. You mentioned spending money on various consultings, consulting services, according to data published in 2014 spent more than 300 million kuna on consulting services that were ordered by various Croatian agencies that we cannot even count. And you're right about that part. How many things could be solved, how many of these problematic things could be stopped in Croatia from acting differently. We are only in a situation today that bus drivers warn us that they have never experienced so many people driving from Croatia. And did you ever hear someone from the government react? That there's something that's ever been done? Of course it's not because it's not a popular topic, it's dangerous, it's actually the cause of a major social crisis that exists in this society and that clearly no one wants to accept because it's a dangerous matter ahead of the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117658	On the reply line Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117659	My colleague Hrg, we're similar to our beliefs. Namely, if you calculated or someone else that 300 million kuna was spent on consulting services but look at what it looks like in the budget, what items and ministries look like. Have you seen the ministries where each ministry has an information item? And when you add up these 20 ministries, the cost of information, therefore, of rebuilding this information, and I say machines, IT devices to say, or all agencies, offices, seduces the state, etc. I was counting it because otherwise you can't, when you take that book from the budget and add that in 2014, 560 million were spent for these purposes, so the public procurement went through. And this 2015, although only informed already in 2014. again 550 million kuna. In 2 years 1 billion and 100 million kunas. And if you take four years of government services for 300 million a year, it's 1 billion and 200 million for consultants. So, it's not about poverty, it's about the inability to run this country, it's about the government's unhealthy attitude towards its people, and that's what it looks like to me since 1995. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117660	A new replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117661	Thank you very much. A fellow Grubisic, socially sensitive government had little, not long after she came to power showed her social sensitivity and immediately raised energy prices, 25% electricity, gas 30%, and even that water use fee for almost 100%, so it's about 40 kuna in each account if you're spending 20 cubic pounds. The VAT from 23 to 25%, so it collected everything, mostly food. And the heating, of course, between 20% and 30% on average, with me pointing to a recordr, that's the City of Rijeka. It is a real coastal town of some pleasant Mediterranean climate, one of the warmest in Croatia but has the most expensive heating in all of Croatia. That's where your heating price has increased almost one 60 and 70 percent over the past three years. That's why you have people, citizens who little, little, little to come under the window of the mayor of SDP to Mr. Obersnel and rebel, because for a small apartment of 60 squares with 1500 kuna, they got heating at 2200, 2300. Well, it's simple bills that can no longer be serviced, paid, these people end up in blocks, and then there socially sensitive fina, public notebook offices or lawyerly simply more socially sensitive, i.e. They're taking some more money. And we're amazed at what's going on, and what's happening is that the government has been here for several months now doesn't want to mention how many currently blocked citizens, along with the model that we've had, who's just been promoting this ministry that everyone's going to write off, so that's what everybody's been offering to sign something, there's been about 70, 80,000 people who are going to get the right to write off, at the end of the 6 grand say better than nothing, and the number of blockeds is growing by 10 grand and a debt of 500 million. That's terrible, that's terrible. And that's that socially sensitive government. And not to mention these 100,000 who have left, who have left the country precisely because of the great social sensitivity. And of course that's what we're going to hear on a story like this, and it's better if neither law is passed, we'd all get more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117662	Time. Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117663	So I think fellow Boric would be fair if the state, HEP is like a company city-like sort of, come water or heat, gas etc. And she made a profit of $1.5 billion and she didn't invest anything, nothing. Even that watch, if you're building a house and you plug it in, and you buy the watch, they're counting on it to own the power plant and show Mr. Milanovic as their investment. Look out, all the watches that were built in Croatia were introduced as their own investment, and we paid for it, Mondekar, me, you, etc. That's HEP's investment. ... If you were making a cottage, say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, if HEP picked up 2.5 billion kunas then and these 200 million kunas that we're going to share to those who really need him to go out of getting HEP because that's how the citizens of Croatia paid and HEP earned it. And as for Rijeka, there's another city in the state, and that's Slavonski Brod, which has a chance in francs of paying for the heating. Well, when a franc jumps, it's scary. When the winter comes, the Frank jumps up and here's a 50-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-six apartment in Slavonski Brod. And there are riots, as well as in Rijeka, etc. But unfortunately there's no result in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117664	A new replica respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117665	Comrade Grubisic, you mentioned things in your discussion but one thing that I think should be said for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, you said about it first that Slavonia was ruined, that is something that you normally mention in all your discussions, when you mentioned legalization and how through legalization, Slavonia and Slavonic peasants were robbed, but I have to tell the truth here that all income from legalization in the last year was actually returned to Slavonia, unfortunately because of the disaster that happened there because of the flood. You also know that by the end of this month and by the end of this year, we have managed to solve most of the problems caused by this disaster in Slavonia. So don't talk about Slavonia not being helped, and don't help Slavonia, and don't react exactly the way it was supposed to at the time. And about who destroyed Slavonia or who destroyed Slavonia over the past 25 years, I think you should be reminded that, in most of the local self-government units, you have a crucial political impact as HDSSB, that before that you had in most HDZ or HSS and that unfortunately you have done very little or almost nothing that Slavonia from that local and regional level goes forward compared to some other counties or some other regions that were two-thirds of the time in opposition to the government and which are among the first 3, 4 or 5 counties per GDP, acceptable to investors, etc. So I'm just going to mention some that aren't mine, which is, say, Međimurska, which in many ways can be compared to your counties, but it's obvious that you from local and regional levels, regardless of the position or opposition position, are not able to do so, so just ask yourself why.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117666	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117667	Thank you very much. Mrs Turina, you didn't even see the red stars in Smrika, and she trampled on us back in '91 until '95. Slavonia was destroyed by the beginning of the village cell and further, about Vukovar not to talk, you were there at that time living peacefully and fishing there fishes in the Queens, and you still broke up along that shipyard in the Kingdom you took your minister into bankruptcy a shipyard in the Kingdom. Shut up when I'm talking, you heard. And then I'll tell you four mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117668	My colleague Grubisic, I remind you, you are in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117669	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117670	Well, you're not on the street and in the pub.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117671	But please tell her to shut up when I'm talking, so I have a right to speak. ... You're wasting my time. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117672	I warn you to behave yourself, because I will take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117673	I'm being very polite. Ms. Turina mentions that we are in power in Slavonia, so we only have the mayor of Osijek-Baranja, 4 mayors in Slavonia are from HDZ ranks, Mayor of Vinkovac is a lifelong mayor of HDZ, Požega, Plekernica, Vukovar who you want more Osijek your mayor, what you are talking about. And further, when we talk about saving, then take a look at your HNS Ministers ironing cards, fly on a plane whenever they feel like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117674	The last replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117675	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you mocked the fact that Croatia came out of recession, you said exactly that it came out of the recession one Friday but you don't know what date. So the fact is that Croatia did come out of recession and because on that Friday, you don't know the date, the DZS announced that economic growth was positive for two quarters in a row, and by definition the economic profession of the state comes out of recession the moment you have an economic growth of two quarters in a row. But it bothers you, because this government is showing positive results, so the two quarters we've grown as far as economic growth is concerned, and the third quarter is going to make it even stronger, even stronger. Unfortunately, what is also a fact is that the moment we left the recession so when the DZS published and the data of people in Croatia did not begin, Croatian citizens did not start living better, but it is true that this government has changed trends and it should be constantly highlighted. So from the fact that for HDZ governments the economic downturn was more than 10% we changed these trends we have economic growth, which is the best assumption that tomorrow Croatian citizens live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117676	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117677	Thank you very much. The Chinese say that if it's not GDP growth 6%, it's nothing, it's a fall. That's right in China, I don't know what it's like with us. If 0.02% is two quarters, we're out of recession, but unfortunately it hasn't been noticed or noticed. Go to the Bus Station, see where most tickets are bought or at the Zagreb Airport. Why do people still move so much from Croatia when we left the recession? I don't get it. I'm just trying to go through the sovereignty of just saying nothing more. And what if the third quarter shows a fall again? They won't, so you like psychic Milan, you know they won't. So don't say that in advance, we'll see at the end. I don't want that to happen. I wish we had at least a 6% increase in GDP as Chinese, so I'd be the luckiest man. But unfortunately, this country for the six years so-called. The recession caused by not foreign factors but by poor monetary policy and other other things, economic policy, lack of investment, inability and one government and other governments, led to people having to leave Croatia after so many years, must unfortunately go from Croatia. Look from Slavonia it's going massively. We don't have the statistics to see how far out of Slavonia has gone, and how much from other parts of Croatia you'll see or that's the tendency for Slavonia to disintegrate, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117678	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Nada Turina-Đuric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear deputies. So I will try to briefly remind you of all the key points that this law proposes with these amendments and I would say in advance on behalf of the HNS, the Liberal Democrats, that we will support these changes because we think that not only because it is good and what is going to benefit I would say to those most vulnerable citizens in the Republic of Croatia, but because it shows that this country, this government, here, at the end of its mandate, once again shows and proves that it has what the colleague in one replica pointed out that it is socially sensitive. Whether this should have happened sooner or later, it is our judgment that both this bill and these provisions, which are being amended, speak in favour of acting responsibly and that at the end of the term of office, or when conditions have come to an end, we give the possibility, or realize, the possibility for certain categories of citizens to be adequately protected. We'll all remember the black news two, three, four years ago of bad news that somehow gave this government a brake to make these decisions. However, for the last six months or so, this last year of mandate and the results of this government, or indicators coming from the economic sphere, will contribute to the fact that this or another future government, I hope that it will be this same government, will be in a far more relaxed situation when it comes to the very part of which the parliamentary representatives here often emphasize, which is to be wider hands or to have the opportunity to be wider hands towards those who are most vulnerable or to be wider hands towards that social upgrade that we all want to be much more quality than it is today. So these few things that we change or some of the new things that we introduce, which is, above all, I would like to commend the creation of a unique compensation centre because what often our citizens are struggling with is that in many places they have to look for certain papers, consent, solutions and unite them and carry them to some third or fourth place. It is something that we as quite citizens are able to do, which is accessible and normal in relation to those who do not have that option, starting with the disabled and beyond. Of course, the big problem, and now here is a proposal that will make it much simpler for people or for us to make it easier for them to do so together. In addition to making it easier for them, there will be savings as well as in all such situations where you have more resources from which you collect certain certificates and solutions in non-coordination, in non-communication between all these bodies, of course some are very happy to use it, and unfortunately there is abuse, which means that such a body, or such a place where all these jobs will be done together, will prevent corruption and the possibility of abuse of any kind, and above all, of that financial nature. It will also be useful for regional and local self-government, because I often know from my own experience that it is not quite easy to establish, i.e. a long time before you establish a particular social assistance user at the level of local self-government, establish a real state of affairs, and you can make the right decision then if you know what kind of social assistance is being done or to which particular user is entitled. It means all the praise for this. I must commend that, I have had experience before in communicating with the competent ministry that was within the Ministry of Health and we must all admit that this social part has actually been kind of neglected for years, at least in this part of it that concerns, most of it in this section regarding quality functioning and paying enough attention to this particular social problem. That's how it's been since there's been a separate ministry for four years, almost four years. I think that very big and important shifts have been made, first of all, in fixing the state of adoption of course and the law that made it possible, by investing in what I just thought my colleague was saying information, of course that the information will continue to be in all the items and always in all the items, i.e. the technological modernisation of business within our ministries. I think it's perfectly normal and even though I think it should be from here and supported. In addition to what I pointed out, the creation of a single centre, there is now the part that has been the most slowed down today, which is that the guaranteed minimum fees will be increased and a special fee will be introduced for the threatened customers of the energy. Absolutely, those who are listed here are incompetent to work, children of single parents and children in single - parent families. I absolutely think that this government, this ministry is right to protect these categories in particular, to allow them with this increase one more decent living situation by saying the following. It is not something that neither I, nor we in the Croatian People's Party, would consider enough for one decent life and that we will not be able to expect or perhaps I hope in the coming period that the state has the strength to take these most vulnerable as some EU countries have dealt with adequately with these fees. We can't say that 900 kuna or 800 kuna is some fee with which a person is really threatened, and especially if he isn't able to work or has certain problems and difficulties as a disabled person to have, that this is a fee that can be decently survived, I won't say live. So in the perspective, only of course by strengthening the economy, only by the excess value that we can produce in this situation are labourable and employees can we expect to have significant and more quality shifts in what, which most of us or all of us are behind, is that this country is extremely socially sensitive. We have put a lot of emphasis here in the debates on what the level of this debate is and why in this pre-election time is really not good at this kind of law, or on people who are in difficulty here having discussions that have the sole purpose of promoting their own party in fact, rather than some values. And I think that with much less intensity, with a certain high, not a certain high dose of dignity, we should have talked about this subject today, rather than bring this down to party outreach and competition for the purpose of an election campaign. Well, here's the thing, even though I'm one of the last to appeal that we're not doing it any further, even though some of our colleagues have already talked about it. Here I'd like us to unanimity support as we will, because all our colleagues said they would support it, but not to get any ugly things out of the past by insulting the very people that this law applies to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117680	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117681	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm saying is that I don't need to be politicized, but I don't think we're politicizing, but we're just trying to find out the most about it today, so maybe you'll be able to talk to me from my fellow Turin, because I've been trying to find out all day. I asked the minister, she left. She didn't say anything to me. Deputy, nothing. My colleague Sobol, she doesn't know either. I'm just interested here's who's going to pay this 200 million kuna for you to tell us and that we can raise our hand for this or not, because the easiest solution is to solve it through HEP and then it's something that doesn't concern the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it should depend on whether you're for some law or not. Perhaps you in HNS know that, you manage the Ministry of Economy from which the explanations have come that they can be both operators and citizens both in the end and in the state. But no one's saying it's decadent it's going to solve that part and that part, who's going to solve that part of the cost. Here's what you might do as an advocate to me in the end and convince me that we really need to raise our hand for a law like this if you know it. If you don't know, then there's nothing else I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117682	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117683	And from what I heard from my colleague, Boric, from the explanation given by the minister, and from what I have been able to read these days and through the media in the announcement of all this that there will be an agreement,... The government and that deal will be reached with the distributor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I assume that HEP as a key distributor of electricity will agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the funding model of this. He's already made a deal with me now, so he's probably going to be a deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117684	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117685	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said that it would be easier for people to get part of the business transferred to the state offices or the state administration offices. I just don't believe it. I don't believe it because practice shows that everything that's happened so far in that direction has complicated people's lives and it's getting harder, it's getting further away from them, it's getting more complicated, and it's getting harder and harder to get the right data. You also said it wasn't good for this law to be discussed this way, so it turns out he's this kind of pre-election law. But then why wasn't that law in the debate at the beginning of the year. It was time to see things. So if this is the kind of debate, then it's the one that caused the debate. I think that in fact this law is perfiduously being swindled at this very time and that interesting figures can prove it. In fact, around 12m euros are foreseen from the International Bank for Office Equipment to expand its activities, state offices. It is likely that any new employment as a bureaucratic official, while at the same time in the law, there is no need for additional funds to be provided for the implementation of the law in part of the social assistance. So was our budget of the Ministry of Social Welfare really so wide and awkward that we didn't know how much money we needed and that there was provided extra money that we hadn't spent so far that we weren't citizens who were in need. It makes me think of those conclusions. So for red tape and order, we have money in the computer, and we don't need money for social assistance. People can't eat computers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117686	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117687	So I understand colleague Hrg that you want to ask 1001 one question with this law that actually has nothing to do with the scale of things, or what this law proposes to draw the public's attention to something that here is essentially completely irrelevant. But your questions are not quite in place because in the materials themselves, or in the law, you have answers. It doesn't make sense for me to ask what citizens will get with it, citizens who will raise those fees and those solutions, what will they get with it? That today, tomorrow they'll do it all in one place, not three. I think it's quite clear what they'll get with it if they do it in one place. And this part that you're saying isn't the same again means there's no money or you don't know where the money is from. Well, on several occasions here, it's been said that in the past year and a few days that the situation has been arranged throughout the system, that there's been savings because some of the things that have overlapped, and I've already spoken about it, means that surely this unique center will further of course introduce order and unfortunately we are who we are, that we want to abuse when we can. And when the order is introduced, then we see that there is a surplus, that is, everything we once predicted because we had to reduce it. I have no reason not to trust my ministry colleagues because it is ultimately their responsibility that it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117688	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. First, the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The basic question to which I will try immediately intro and answer why now this law? Was it possible before, when? So I'm gonna start by saying some exact data. The government has been dealing with the biggest problems that have been slowing Croatia down for years. The government successfully responds to challenges and problems and finds solutions. We promised economic growth, GDP increased by 1.2% in the second quarter of this year. This clearly shows that Croatia is growing. No one's above the law today. We promised to find a solution for the debtors in the Swiss francs and we did it, we do it. Croatian citizens are the ones for whom we address the challenges. The Croatian families to us until the arrival of this ruling set were not in the interest of previous years. Banks were allowed to do whatever they wanted and as much as they wanted from Croatian citizens, from Croatian families. This government has not failed them in this regard. We can't forget the progress, and even less what we've found. In 2011, the economy was in this state with monthly unemployment growth, and what was the government's economic programme? This is still being determined by Croatian courts. Corruption raged at the highest levels and took direct money from Croatian citizens. I repeat, banks used citizens regardless of their difficult financial situation and the inability to pay off debts. What do we have today? In short, the economy shows growth. We have clear results. In terms of corruption, no one is immune to lawlessness. And in the conflict of banks, financial capital and people, ordinary citizens, this government shows that it is on the side of citizens. So Croatia goes forward. And what was fundamentally necessary had to be put into order in certain ministries. Why, and no one talked about it today and the minister clearly said, why wasn't it at the beginning, which she found in the ministry, was an installed application with various citizens' data? Why? Because that's where the order is. A citizen gets something that belongs to him by law, and not by the will of this or that official, this or that clerk. So what's most important is that this government through and through this law improves the lives of citizens, not posters like we've had opportunities for years and decades to enjoy a better life that citizens could only see on someone's election posters. And today when our promises are, and we have been very careful in this, they are turning into laws, and suddenly there is a great noise, screaming, shouting. I really appreciate and no longer see the opposition enemies, but I always make mistakes when I think better, when I overestimate them. I never think of underestimating them. So, attack with so much bile, with so much evil, this bill instead of joining and welcoming it and in such a way praising others who know better and who have shown it in some way to praise themselves. No, but it probably wouldn't be the real HDZ I really expect from. So this bill gives and increases social benefits for older than 60 years for people in employment, is given to children of single parents, and this shows exactly how many insurance companies or those who will be authorised by these rights are precisely the calculated number. It could only be done in one system, it was before and it couldn't be done. I'll repeat, so we all know that, it's the media, there's no media that's not talking about it that a few years ago for social benefits people went to Mercedes without hiding at all. So it was stolen from those who needed it most. So here's what I'm not going to do, because a lot's already been said. Unfortunately, it is indeed sad, and it is indeed saddening, but obviously the opposition, the main opposition party cannot go beyond itself and what is, when citizens are better, it is up to HDZ and vice versa when HDZ was best, the citizens were worst. And citizens can't forget it, and they won't forget it, there's no going back to the way it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117690	Thank you. The first replica is Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117691	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Ingrid's with no bitter replicas. It's not a problem that the law is passed at this time, the problem is what the law is. But I will refer to your call for 2011, you also mentioned economic indicators in 2011 and today, and to my colleague Jelash by the way, and in 2011, there were two quarter by-line positive GDP growth, and the year ended two quarter by-rows, and the second and third was growth, and the year ended with a minus 0.2 2011. Same as this year's two quarters in a row. So they're not always predictable in economic movements. As regards the employment and unemployment of my colleague Ingrid, 2011 employed 1 million 411 thousand, 2013. 1 million 348 thousand and today 1 million 294 thousand. So less employees than in 2011. As for the unemployed, 305,000 were unemployed in 2011, and in 2013, there were 345 thousand and 320 thousand today. So we have more negative indicators on employment and unemployment than in 2011, and GDP growth is the same as in 2011. But the law is bad, for example, only when it comes to the threat of an energy buyer. So you don't even know how much compensation is paid, we've heard here in two years we'll find out what it's going to be, what it's going to be, how much it's going to be, how much it's going to be, how much it's going to work on the budget, who's going to pay that, who's going to pay that fee from what source. Four ministers say differently, that distributors will, they will, from the budget, give out, that it is reserved, and how can it be known and have that item at the ministry if the amount of the fee is not known.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117692	Time. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117693	In the first part, in relation to the first part of your replica, I won't fit you with exact data, actually I think it's exact data, but from your book that I read carefully and where you speak for yourself how much debt has grown, or how many taxes have not been paid in the term of the HDZ government. Therefore, it is not the same and certain same perhaps or similar numerical indicators do not speak of the same state of affairs. We've put order into payment. Believers were the last holes in the play, and this is why many of the former believers today are debtors to whom we help.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117694	New replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117695	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you said that, you mentioned the decline in unemployment, that we are the state's phenomenon of employment and unemployment, both. It's an interesting thing, it's a very, very important effect of the government, the government that you say has improved the lives of citizens. That's why I picked up the line, I can't afford not to talk about it two sentences, because I'm asking you where you live? Citizens I meet every day say it's hard, it's never been so bad. 100,000 people working, working, left Croatia looking for a job. Of course unemployment has fallen. Here's your unemployment drop but it's not to brag, it's to worry, it's to the government no more alarm, it's a big alarm with all the sirens and trying to find a solution to it. You're talking about an orderly state, so people say it's never been so messy, so it's all mixed up that you don't know where, who, what needs to be done and solved anymore. That's what people on the field say, I don't know if they're lying to me. I believe them, believe them, and I'm trying to sort things out at that level of local self-government, and it's really not good in that part either, and there's a big problem. No one is against the law that gives social rights to socially endangered citizens, who would be against such a law? We just need to see exactly what it means, whether it will be at the benefit of the citizens again, and to the benefit of individuals, as most unfortunately happens when laws are passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117696	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117697	You're telling your colleague that no one is against the laws given to certain rights to citizens, but you said earlier that this bill is a perfidual manipulation, a perfidual manipulation because it is precisely known to whom it is given, under what conditions and that no one can get it but this particular category of citizens. And what would you call it when it was robbed when it was put in black bags, was it a good act to God for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117698	Third replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Anticevic, the indicators are equative that this law is not good. I've already said it, and I'll repeat it to you, so 73 remarks are not accepted from 81 in total. This is the result of what is suspected of the possibility of carrying out and making the intentions of this law to help truly impoverished citizens who have impoverished the collection of electricity, gas, the reduction of defence fees i.e. guaranteed fees previously defined differently and amounted to HRK 1,092, which is no longer available today. You talk all the time and you go back to the past even though you swore you wouldn't deal with the past with the problems that are ahead of you, before the government, and that's all you're going to discuss. Today we see that this is all demagogy, that there are no shifts, there is no means to be provided, and there is nothing that will help the citizens of the poor throughout this time and clearly written in the light of this law that the situation in the labour market is still very unfavourable. That unemployment is growing, the fact is, no matter what your attempts to reverse it. 62,000 more unemployed in 2015 than it was in 2011 and that's a fact you can't escape from. Why are we running away from her, why don't we say that these are really populist measures for elections and nothing else? Dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117700	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117701	Well, you're a respected colleague of the contrary, first you say that this is not a measure of no help, and then you say they're populist. If they're populist, then the government must be doing something to please someone. Why is he so bile? In the end, I would like to warn you again what is a respected deputy minister just before and quote, during your term, you have made a decision where you have recognised disability only to those persons who have acquired it by the age of 18. So the Constitutional Court abolished such a shameless decision because it really should be shameless, not knowing the laws or the constitution. So despite the fact that we found the land not at the edge of the break-in, but at the bottom of the break-in for all that time and all the time, there were no cuts in the fees, but on two occasions they increased. Now, that bothers you, but that's your problem and let him suffer who bothers us, we're moving forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117702	Hope Murganic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117703	... Well, they're not just our colleagues, they're all together. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act in an emergency procedure at an emergency session of the Croatian Assembly. The review of this law, and we can see from these discussions that there was absolutely no valid reason why it was this urgent, but we agreed that it was still a pre-election campaign, so we will no longer replicate each other. Even the Minister herself in the introduction said that these are political decisions, we are political here in some way bodies and we can and we have the right to give our opinion on it. I'm surprised today that it's so much moralizing about how some of us are discussing the law, how we dared not agree with what the position suggested and every one of our criticisms, our proposal, and even when it's extremely well-intentioned, it takes everything as something that upsets the ruling ones who probably expected here not only from their ranks but from all praises. As this puts an increase in the guaranteed minimum compensation of 800 kuna to 920 kuna for those singles working incompetent, for single parents I am really the first, and I believe no one is against helping those persons of our poor citizens who are poor property. However, whether this will be sufficient compensation for everything that the Government has done with its actions or not by doing, namely what previous social care laws have been reduced, withdrawn or denied by those same poor social categories. Since this is the fourth intervention of this government in the Social Care Act, I cannot help but notice that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth did not have a clear social policy, there is no vision or plan for the development of social care. As it has been pointed out here today that a strategy against poverty has been adopted, I think there are good wishes and good ideas, but that they always fall for implementation, which I will try and touch during the debate. So, by coming to power in the third month of 2013, the Social Care Act is being amended. It disappears social care institutions and spends mainly on reregistering these institutions. 60 million kunas were spent on this, but some were worth it because it has managed to change or re-election of all directors in all social care centres in all branches as it was intended and to taste the Kukuriku coalition or the Resolute Minister Opačić. Staffing was certainly the specialty of this government no matter how angry you are or not. In the first year of 1800, new employees were in the ministries, and employment continued continuously. I have already said that the social care sector, by the arrival of Minister Opačić, had 70 employees, now has over 330, and the quality and availability of services to institutions and persons of social care is not on an adequate increase in the number of employees. For the purpose of staffing, the third amendment to the Social Care Act is also introduced at the end of 2014. Legislative provisions allow these same newly elected personnel to be left at non-existent jobs in institutions and social work centres at the end of their mandates. The staffing of Minister Opačić was also written by the media, and they had something to say about the inspection services, not only in the field, but also in the ministry itself. Most importantly, any legislative change is explained by the Government's proposal not to burden the state budget, which is simply incredible that employment will not burden the state budget because, with the number of 79 directors, 40 district services should be added to the social care directors who are significantly greater than this number. The vast majority of these directors were not employees of the institution in which they were appointed and its stay would increase the number of jobs. What am I pointing this out for? Because this ministry has spent a time saving precisely on the approval of personnel, professional staff who are directly working with users technical staff by system 2 for 1 on the one hand, and on the other hand in ministries and in the directorial functions is not being saved. 31.12.2013 is subject to the Social Care Act, which brings large newspapers for social service users and cash compensations. And what is characteristic of this and why my view of this new law is that it has not been adopted to the extent, to a good extent, the intention towards the citizens but exclusively for pre-election purposes, which is because when the law is passed, it is created in the media a picture that prepares the public to change that social care has a lot of abuse, that employees are unprofessional and ignorant, some are threatened with layoffs. This law places supplies from the Office of State Administration in the jurisdiction of the Centre, 1500 and more defenders of supply lose those rights or are reduced, keep records on the property, low asset censorships do not allow neither financial compensation nor social services. It is intervened in the right to recognise the status of parent care providers. The parents of children with developmental difficulties press charges for damages done to them by the state. The Advocate General has even filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court for the same right to the status of the custodian, etc. On the ground, help in the house is shut down. 1,000 geronto housewives are out of work. Grants to accommodation institutions are reduced and in general 2013 under the law is known for reducing the rights of those who are the poorest. You know, it's been intervened 11 times in the orthopaedic aid rule. Clearly, it's not the department's jurisdiction but then there were problems and assistants in the follow-up. Generally, the state budget deficit resolution measures came from the weakest, and the worst in the ministry was not for that understanding. The ministry statements were going in a direction, and now I won't repeat that there are no hungry children, that the assistants in the follow-up are not necessary, even if the parents themselves have made their children more disabled than they should have. The charges that were then recognised by the former government were criticised for purchasing HDZ's voting body. The textbooks for which you are now all for having them all for free were created about the affair. Anyway, it all proved together that HDZ was well-intentioned only because it needed votes. Why should we think otherwise now? In 2014, it is also known for its unique body of art. I'm not going to be special about him because the sparrows on the roof know about him, but I'm afraid the same system is going to get through the creation of unique monetary centers. We have a treasurer, we have... there's always payments from one place. The social care application allows access to data from the IRS. We have the OIB, we have the e-Citizens, we have the COP, no one has told us how much savings are due to the central salary account and how much it helped fiscalize and order in business. Why? Because employees have not been reduced, institutions continue to account for the wages of preparation, send up only one place to release the wages, just like they used to run through the treasury. The Single Money Centre will not reduce the work of social workers. Why? Because they will have to give consent to the state administration's office to give a solution, they will also have to control the use and implementation of that solution. We had everything, but we're working on new ones. If we're doing new things, let it be in good faith and no mistakes like it's been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117704	We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117705	Dear counterpart Murganić, here you are the first in the debates today to taxfully state what all the government and this ministry has done in this part of social care and care for the most vulnerable citizens. You mentioned those 60 million kunas spent in the first year just to set up your staff as you said it was to the taste of Minister Opačić. All of this and all the money that has been allocated and the rights that have been abolished over the past four years are now being passed by law when the 200 kuna will help those who are most vulnerable. Here we return to what is often mentioned today, to the profit of HEP of 2 billion and 700 million kuna. And what was first said here from the bench received by Mrs Turini Djuric to respond to Mr. Boric's reply from the deputy minister that the government has already made a deal with HEP. So, we still don't know that deal, nor have we heard who's going to pay for it. Would it be the return of those 25% of the price of electricity paid by all citizens by a much better and more adequate measure than this law, which we can rightly say is indeed pre-election and populist, to go to get votes in those who are the most threatened? If 2 billion and 700 million kunas were HEP's profits and the price increase by 25% was to start the development of an economy that wasn't run by that money? In order to reduce and return 25% better social measure without such a law in this way by emergency procedure. And finally, the question arises, and why this kind of emergency procedure, calling a session when we have a regular procedure. Simply for a reason to talk about it the way that someone who's long since been deprived of the much greater rights they've had. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117706	The answer to the respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117707	So I'm going to take a brief look at my colleague in response to this replica and say that I would love it very much, I think I'm glad that people get those 200 kunas. That I don't really have any dilemmas about. The same way that you will assess who should get it I will trust the really professional services that will process it. But I would like to, and perhaps the Deputy Minister will now tell us in the final word whether the funds are provided for it, or I think that today at this debate we should have a clear situation on who and where to pay it, whether it's from the budget, whether it's from someone's gain, whether it's by calculating the price. We have not been able to do so today, clearly, in response, and we are asked to vote in favour of one law. The law without a financial base is empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117708	A new replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you mentioned a unique cash center. In September last year, the government raised 50m euros in credit and explained it was a bonus and a reward for the results achieved. They didn't know then either, and probably not now how they're gonna spend it. But here it is during this last period they have thought that 600,000 euros will go to a unique monetary centre. And only in the establishment of this centre will they spend that 600,000 euros on consulting services, and who are these consultants and who will pay them off is known by 2038 that will be returned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is also known that 200000 euros from these funds have been provided for the companies Deloid and Contrast whose director is a certain Mr. Petrovic known and engaged consultant in the Kukurik mandate, i.e. this Government, as he said and introduced himself in Tuheljske spas. The minister told us about the reforms, and so I did my best, and I found some things that would be spent on these reforms. So 12m euros for the creation of a single compensation centre goes to computers, consultants, and then goes 20m euros to rewards. Four items repeat prizes, and there are no reasons why they are, and these awards are worth 50m euros. So again, consultants worth 750 thousand euros are mentioned, and then the work activation of the unemployed 400,000 euros for technical assistance is back on track and rewards are back on track. You see, from your presentation, it is really not disputed that all those who are socially threatened are especially single parents. For people with disabilities, I'm just gonna end up right now. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] But we need to know In Croatia, each newborn is in charge of 10,000 euros under the rule of this government. [[Intruder Stazic: Time of colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117710	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117711	Thank you. So I talked a lot about this loan and borrowing especially for the needs of social care was not appropriate for me at the time of the general duty of the Republic of Croatia, especially not on those 4 items that the Government has given us, or the Minister, in an explanation of what such money will be spent on. I felt that we also thought that we had the beginning of information in the social care system and that it needed to be upgraded, not abandoning one and starting from a whole new one, especially what the means for this are envisaged for which we are in debt that we do not have. A unique money center may be a good idea, but I don't want it to pass as a unique body for art. A unique approach we are unable to implement, which we are unable to implement. This bonus and these consulting companies sound very bad to me, opening up possible doubts about everything and universal consultants who specialize in everything from the economy, agriculture and now social welfare really create a vision and mistrust. And I don't think 50 million bonuses from a 70 million government loan can call a bonus reward because he has categories of everything that has every debt. So the Unique Money Center shouldn't have gotten as much debt as a single body of art because we have resources and we have knowledge in our own environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117712	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117713	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganić, you wanted to avoid discussing whether this law had entered into the emergency procedure, whether it was populist or not, and so you made an excellent construction that you wanted to avoid this debate about it. However, the question arises if this government or that government at the beginning of its mandate predicted such a situation so that the improvement of social giving to the population would not have been done in those three years, in the end, if they were what they are proposing, then it would have been normal. I mean, it wasn't in the plan at all in 2011, 2012, and 2013, or in 2014 at all, but here at the end of the day. It took 15 days for a public debate, and we can see that seven subjects reported for a public hearing. So that's the explanation of that initial part. This second part you were talking about funding. Namely, on page 2, the loan between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was implemented by JCN, so the Single Centre for Compensation, as part of component 2 which includes office equipment. Therefore, the new costs of the Office of State Administration to extend competence and the estimated funds of 12m euros. And now you've said that 50 million kunas are intended for consulting services of someone or something. Thus, consulting services are provided for rewards of as much as 50 million kunas of these 84, 85 million kunas. That's really amazing! With this increase in staff, the number of staff in the ministry from 70 to over 330 as you said. And it belongs to one, if it's the Ministry of Social Welfare, then you should really be asking yourself if it's really that necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117714	Thank you. Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117715	So here are the 50 million euros and 70 million general debt, plus what we said and mentioned, both you and consultants and the Unique Money Centre and the unique body of art will be meant for something else that really saddens me. I'm saddened by the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has always issued such statements that there are so many abuses in the system and it turns out that corruption only has social care. I really don't know who's so corrupt? Are these poor citizens or are they corrupt social and professional and other workers? I know that abuse was, there are, and there will be. They're the ones we should be working on. But they don't have rules, they don't have laws, they don't have pictures of users of service systems and cash benefits or their employees. That is why, because of such statements, I can really say that I doubt the social sensitivity of the government and the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117716	Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117717	Thank you very much. Well, you've made a good point that at the last minute, the Social Care Act has changed four times, which now shows that certain mistakes and errors have been made that have actually contributed to increasing the number of those who are going to be or who are already poor. Poverty as described here stemmed from the fact that a certain number of users guaranteed minimum fees could not find a job by active measures. The Croatian defenders are among the team. There are many who have lost that one-time cash aid or supply as we have called it since 1092 kuna. Today they have 800, and tomorrow they may have, maybe if they really secure 920 kuna. And why does this law have so many strangers in its adoption? Why so many failures, why so many of your fellow experts have described it in textual form in remarks that it is not good again and that there are failures again? But most importantly, for all to implement this law, it says no need to provide additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and it is said that the funds will be secured within the limits at the positions of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. So I think that's what can't happen in the bill and we'll say it with redistribution, savings within the ministry or... potential users to whom this right does not belong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter how many, no matter how many users. And that's why it's unserious and can be considered a demagogue, political measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117718	Time. The replica matches Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117719	I agree with your replica, we've talked a lot, and we're all saying it over and over again. Maybe just one sentence that may not be said here, which is that this increase from 800 to 920 kuna refers to single people, people who are incompetent to work. They're mostly gonna be nursing single households. Something maybe younger. So there is no fact that all defenders who have lost military supplies will also benefit from this increase because if they are still able to work, if they are younger or if they are within the family, this increase will not apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117720	The last replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Murganić, you're coming from the system, you've broken down everything that's happened that's mostly affected the users, and in fact it hasn't improved the welfare system in any way. The unique monetary centre, therefore, is a centre based on the project plan for the implementation of the so-called so-called project. the fiscal consolidation reform measures, as beautifully written in 2014-2016, According to my field knowledge that these systems are actually not imported, that they should have been put into operation in 2014, they are not. That welfare centres have done a huge job, however, it has not yet come to life in the right way, not their fault. Therefore, my question is please explain to me how these centres should now fulfil this obligation put forward by the Government or the Ministry when it is not yet known, because the Government will only regulate it by a regulation which will be adopted on the basis of Article 39. The energy law and yet no one knows who will be defined as a threatened buyer. So a whole series of strangers how on the ground at all that's going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117722	Reply to the replica Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117723	Well, I don't know what that's gonna be like, so maybe the deputy will answer us. But what I believe is that when the centres get the tips and when they get the decision or the solutions and the approvals to go into payoffs, they're sure to do as always. Social work centres are not easy, and there is a terrible saving on staff, it is the worst thing to do everywhere in the ministry, that there is a high probability that workers will be employed in government offices, administrators, and that professional workers will remain the same if they do not rejuvenate the professional staff and the worst possible thing is that they have the basic means of working and these are cars that may cost 10,000 euros in no way do not approve of the work on the ground. And now I'd be very naughty to repeat and remind some audiences, some cars of a lot of things, a lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117724	Following is the final address of Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Respected Maya Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117725	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, thank you very much for today's debate. We will carefully consider the amendments. I think it's four applicants. And here I am using this opportunity in the end to call you once again, to ask that without delay, without abstention, support the law that brings direct material well-being for at least 140, at least 140,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117726	Here's while you were thanking the Republic amendments, Jaksa Balojevic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, I already made a request to you once. Namely, it is the Association of Brački Popovci, which operates on the Island of Brac. It's an association that deals with the problem of children with special needs. Unfortunately, those children when they have to travel to Split or from the island to the mainland they have to pay for a ticket, a boat ticket. At the annual level, they have a 75% discount four times. Some parents with children take advantage of it in one week, unlike children who are educated, who live on an island and go to school in Split have free tickets every day. The pensioners have the same free tickets. And here's a chance I'll take, because since I'm asked by the association if it's in any way possible to meet them and get more travel with free tickets than they've ever had before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117728	The answer to Deputy Sporish's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117729	Thank you very much. Your representative's question has also come through written channels. It was responsible almost a month ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117730	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117731	... Let's go, please let us continue to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So we approach the vote. Please determine the quorum once more. Thank you very much we have enough representatives present that we can decide on all the points done at the extraordinary session. Let's first go to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 893. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, with the final proposal for a law, will be followed by a third reading. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please vote. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that the conclusion has not been reached by the majority required. He received 30 votes in favour, 3 votes abstentioned and 79 votes against. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 3 votes are abstentions and 29 votes against being accepted to discuss and decide on the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the government, the Honorable Maya Sporish Deputy Minister to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117732	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Given that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act provides that the right to compensation for the threatened buyer of the energy products is recognised at the request of the person meeting the criteria for obtaining the status of the threatened buyer in order to simplify the procedure, since an exceptional inflow of requirements for the exercise of this right is expected and starting from 1 October of this year, it is necessary to allow the competent social care centres under official duty to initiate the procedure for the recognition of the right to compensation for the threatened buyer of the energy products and to decide on the recognition of that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117733	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117734	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow colleagues and colleagues of the government's amendment show that the government does not care at all about those in need. This amendment shows how much the government has approached both with political and pre-election jokes that it wants to help someone. Because the main thing is if you boast that you have put order in the state, if you are saying that you are using the opportunities of the OIB that then social care centres have all that information, and the OIB is introduced precisely because Croatian citizens who exercise certain rights under certain laws that this House of the High are not wandering from office to office but simply to do so. However, when you look at this amendment to the government and remember what the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister said here, then you will see that it is in the diametric opposite. It's in the diametric opposite of what the government is saying, which is that it has put order into the state. And what I want to say here yet, this is a new tax for Croatian citizens. Because make sure all of these first time the first pick-ups will install these 3 Junes in the price, and they will eventually pay again Croatian citizens. However, one elemental question arises, here 40 and a few months ago, the consensus that electricity prices in Croatia are 25% higher, although for this there was no economic nor any basis for any simple reason why we had an extremely good hydro year and large electricity production took place precisely in the cheapest possible way. So there was no basis for an increase in electricity prices, but the price rose 25% with the excuse that HEP will make an investment swing and start an economy in the Republic of Croatia. This has not happened, but it has happened that nearly 4 billion kunas have been taken from Croatian citizens in the past 3.5 years from their pockets and now let's just make a calculation for what they are using the poorest in the past 3 years, so you will see that these 3 limes cannot cover it for them for the next 10 years. So, one flat-rate assessment and an evaluation but I say this amendment may be welcome for the Croatian public. This amendment simply shows how long this problem has been approached on a case-by-case basis. And look at your colleagues and colleagues, when you listen to Miranda Mrsic's statement yesterday that she's going to give a Christmas card to the pensioners, so why are we bringing in this high house budget? For what? Among other things, to meet the needs of the laws adopted by this high house, including meeting social policy needs. Well, I'm sure there are no MPs in the House for this purpose who wouldn't raise a hand to ensure that those funds are secured in the state budget, and let the companies work, let them earn, let them earn profits, and let them base their profits and pay the profit tax. Because when you look at the profits of only Croatian electricity, and I'm not talking about other electricity distributors in Croatia, then you'll see that only twenty percent of these income tax funds were taken and said they were used for purpose in the position of the Ministry of Social Care, this cost could be covered. Unfortunately, we've allowed ourselves to discuss pre-election wishes these five days. There's a law that's particularly interesting, and when the election campaign starts, then you'll see why it was passed. And that's the tax code on beer. Why? Because certain areas, through certain people, you want to learn into tissues where you don't stand a chance in the election, so you want to buy them. This is classic shopping. Political promotion not recorded under the Law on the Promotion of Political Parties and Pre-election Promotion, but a classic political promotion but at the expense of Croatian citizens. And all these laws that were in the House these days are on track, and these laws that the government, several of them, will bring to the session today. However, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian budget are in this position precisely because of these things that were brought to us at the time of all governments. I'm not going to say that at the time of HDZ it wasn't, but is one real question being that this is about potentially a lot of users as much as it costs in the future? And unfortunately the session was called now after two days, you all see there was no need for that session. We wanted to do something, we wanted to make a political point, but that key law that was to be found in this session failed to negotiate what it would look like, so they pushed us five laws, we discussed it here, put the anger back on the Croatian public, but that's how it is. This is a picture and opportunity of government over the past four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117735	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117736	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, unlike colleagues Sucker, who, on behalf of the HDZ, I would also say to the opposition the fully expected attack of any government proposal, especially now when we are talking about some measures that people will welcome and welcome with relief. The HNS club welcomes this amendment, assessing that the government has realised that the system that exists, so the social care centre system already has its capacity under its duty and I would say in this particular case and the obligation to react. Yes, it is true, there is an OIB but there is also a principle that the right that you have under the law can only be achieved if you seek it. In this particular case, it is assumed that a large number of citizens who are simply concerned are simply in a situation where they are neither following the media nor reading the newspapers, in particular they are not reading the National Journal and will not know about the right they are given. And in this sense, the social care centres according to their records, the data they have towards the OIB can and should respond quickly and allow them to actually come to that right. On the other hand, this is not about any discount that should be determined, realised and paid or made available by distributors, this is about one of the social most vulnerable layers of the population, and in this sense the distributor has no obligation at all. The state took on that burden, that obligation, and it must be carried out to the end. Yes, the fact is that Croatia's electricity business operates with profits. I wish we could have boasted that way in those times when the Croatian electricity industry was held accountable by the Croatian Democratic Community, but that is not the case. And in this particular case, it is seen that where we can really exert ourselves and help ourselves. In this regard, we support this amendment and thank you for having submitted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117737	Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the club. ... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have one replica of the presentation of colleagues of Goran Beus Richembergh, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117738	A colleague, Beus, won Croatian electricity in 2020 was 1 billion and 600 million, but with a 25% lower price. It's official data. So much for that. And as for this, we both said the exact same thing. So we're not at all bickering about what we bring here in the Parliament that civil servants have to do. So if we bring the law here that someone has a right then welfare centers have to do it. But if someone boasts there's a system then pass a law that's contrary to that system, I was talking about it. So our debate is completely identical. So we asked that if we did something that those who were paid for it were doing it, and I don't think our debate is different. But the difference is that I'm saying that those who wrote this law are not aware of how these welfare centres can work at the moment and that they should work in such a way, so that's the difference. But I'm saying, look, you're going to see HEP's profits, and then in 2011, a decision was made to make 50% and to get a government budget at a 20% lower price because of the good hydro year 2010 was a billion and 600 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117739	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117740	First of all, thank you for solidarity with the government's need to take these measures because you said yourself that no one would be smart against such a proposal. On the other hand, 2010 was a profit, but we do not remember that, apart from the inflow into the state budget, no measure was created to enable consumers to live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117741	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117742	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, MPs and MPs. It is also clear that our club, the HDSSB club, will support this amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because I do not know which of us can not support the measure which makes it easier for Croatian citizens to bear the burden of this recession and the crisis they are in, especially those of the most vulnerable social categories of Croatian citizens. The HDSSB representative club will support any measure that is in the wake of the relief of the difficult social situation in which Croatian citizens are located. And I think that it is more or less none of us, regardless of whether it was in the government or the opposition, cannot support those measures that will ease the burden of crisis and recession for Croatian citizens. But we also think that if we remember back four years and politics especially about HEP, if we remember the HEP administration that changed, if we remember the promises that were made when the current accumulated that same current would be fueled when it was won, and that didn't happen, when excuses were sought in the dry years, so when the rainy years came again and when it was a good accumulation then it was forgotten again about what was said in the dry years. And when we remember all those parafiscal duties that are involved with Croatian citizens in various directors, this measure, in particular the timing of a measure that is clearly pre-electional and has nothing to do with any social policy of the government, already has to do with its social sensitivity with the elections that knock on the door and that will happen in a month. Why didn't you think of that last year, last year or years before you were collecting electricity? Now I'd rather you get the election out and the whole state budget if you have to, now you'd share Christmases and vouchers and social aid, there's nothing you wouldn't share for a few more votes. But I hope Croatian citizens will not be and are not so short-minded that they will forget everything that has happened in these four years in the term of office of this government and the pressure they have experienced over the past four years. Therefore, when it comes to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HDSB Representatives Club, whose amendment and this measure are certainly supported as well as all those social measures. Well, we'd also support it if you went out with bags and shared money with Croatian citizens now, so we can't be against it, in the end it's their money. But we cannot afford to push the Croatian budget towards bankruptcy on behalf of the election campaign, as is now happening with your mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117743	Thank you, too. No more replicas, no more reports. I am concluding the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, putting it to the vote. Please vote on the amendment. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment to most of the 109 votes by and 1 vote abstention, nothing against being accepted and has become an integral part of the final bill. Now we move on to the amendment clubs of MPs and MPs. You have a shared plate. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister of Honor Maya Sporish, Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117744	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117745	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117746	The subject name of the fee guaranteed minimum fee has already been fixed and there is no need to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117747	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117748	We stay with the amendment because the statement is in the spirit of Croatian language and I ask you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117749	Thank you very much. I ask that we vote on the amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 29 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 76 votes against. Amendment No. 2. The O.R.O.A.'s club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117750	It's unacceptable. Supporting the equalisation of the rights of all persons with disabilities and their inclusion in society, the Proposer notes that in the event of the adoption of this amendment it would be necessary to provide 7.5 billion kuna annually in the state budget while the annual budget of the entire social care system is around 4.5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117751	In the name of the club, the respected representative Mladen Novak, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117752	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Personal disability should be exclusively entitled based on disability, not on property or income censorship. This argument we've just heard, the state has no money, so it introduces discrimination. And I'm sorry for the expression, but this is insane. What we've heard now, the state has no money, and we're instituting discrimination, or we're holding back. This has nothing to do with brains. It can't be that the state doesn't have any money, and now the right to be admitted to being disabled and to exercise the right to a personal disability, we deny it because we don't have the money, and at the same time we announce and I don't know the goddesses and what else to do with the campaign, and this fundamental right is being lifted by someone. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117753	Please vote on Amendment No. 2. It's the club of an ORAH representative that the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority of 39 votes for, 2 abstentions and 68 votes against. Amendment No. Third respected representative of Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117754	It's unacceptable. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117755	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117756	I do not accept the argument because I also believe that the rights arising from disability should not be subject to any discrimination. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117757	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 3rd respected representative of Peter Baranovic, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority of 36 votes for, 2 abstentions and 71 votes against. Amendment No. 4. The club of representatives of ORAH in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117758	It's unacceptable. The users of social care accommodation services have been provided with help and help in organising food, preparation and taking meals and others and for which this right is intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117759	On behalf of the ORAH Club, Honored Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117760	Thank you very much. This isn't the only thing you mentioned, Article 57 of the Law, paragraph 2 is about a little bit more. Same as the last item. And in the end, if we're going to be very honest. When a person, a 20-year-old, is imprisoned in a home that is essentially a retirement home, an old and powerless person, and you give her 100 kunas a month, is that humane to you? Is that a social measure? Oh, that's a shame. Honestly, it's a shame. I'm asking for a statement on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117761	Please vote on Amendment No. 4. A club of representatives of the ORAH that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 35 votes for, 3 abstentions and 73 votes against. Amendment No. 5th of the same Club of Representatives, ORAH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117762	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment provides for the introduction of a new foster institution and the right to the parents of the carers defined by this law is intended primarily for children with developmental difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117763	On behalf of the ORAH Club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117764	It's just that the person who, a person with disabilities or a child with developmental difficulties, is actually the bearer of some right and it should exercise the right to have a carer. So we have cases where a decision was made, or welfare center found that the wife of the sick person was not a member of the family. Oh, you have that case that happened in, which was Sunday at 2, what's more to explain than that? This is actually the same explanation as the first one you gave me on the first amendment. The state has no money, but more importantly, the state has no empathy for these people at all. And this story about the adoption of this law, the amendment of this law that the state shows its social face is essentially a common disgrace. Even about that thing, about electricity, so why didn't you do the commitment you gave yourself in 2012? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117765	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 5. A club of representatives of the ORAH that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 35 votes for, 2 abstentions and 73 votes against. Amendment No. The sixth respected representative of Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117766	The amendment is not accepted. The Article of the Law, as proposed by the Proposer, represents a significant increase in the number of hours of psychosocial support by the service provider. A further increase in the number of hours would be a service of the living room already prescribed by this law as a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117767	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117768	I do not accept the explanation of Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament because this is your opinion and this is the opinion of those who are unfortunately in a situation where they need this kind of help. I guess they are better directed at how many hours and how many hours and how many hours it takes to live the life of a decent man and to have adequate assistance from Croatian society. That is why I ask that the amendment be voted on because the amendment is drawn up according to the guidance of those who are end-users and who, unfortunately, are in such a difficult situation. I don't think bureaucracy can properly assess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117769	Thank you, too. Please vote on amendment number 6 of the respected representative Petra Baranovic, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 38 votes for, 2 abstentions, 72 votes against. Amendment number 7 of Honored Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117770	It's unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to provide for a deadline for the adoption of a Regulation on cooperation between the Centre for Social Care, the Office of the State Administration and the Employment Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117771	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117772	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, Article 15 does not provide for any regulation at all. How is it possible to set a time limit for a rule that is not laid down in Article 15? I'll read you article 15, I'm sorry you didn't want to read the article. In Article 38(1), behind the words of the Centre for Social Care, a point is placed and the words are added: the Office of State Administration in the County or the competent office of the City of Zagreb. In paragraph 2 behind the words of the censorship of the Centre for Social Care, point is placed and the words are added: the offices of the state administration in the county or the competent office of the City of Zagreb, etc. the office of the City of Zagreb and the item of the 5th office of the City of Zagreb. This Article 15 does not prescribe the adoption of a Regulation and you are now applying Article 50 to the period within which a rule that does not exist is to be adopted. I really don't know what you're looking at and why you didn't accept the amendment. Let's tell me where it says the rule book is in Article 15. Which rule you're on, so you don't want to admit you made a mistake. And here is an article 2 that says Article 7, article 7, says that the minister will adopt a rulebook. Article 23 states that he will adopt a regulation, but Article 15 does not contain any regulations. Mr. President, we have a broken law, please intervene. This isn't normal, this is purely technical. And look and listen, you haven't read the amendment at all. Thank you very much. I'm not asking for a vote because we have nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117773	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. We don't need a vote, so we're going to Amendment 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117774	The amendment is not accepted. It is necessary that the provisions in question concerning the transfer of the administration of the guaranteed minimum fees enter into force on 1 June 2016 in order to ensure the preconditions for the transfer of competence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117775	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, the applicant for the amendment is the Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117776	Your Honor, Mr. President, this reason for not accepting the amendment is pointless. The amendment seems technical but his intention is to show everyone and to see the government's really perfidious intentions by adopting this law in order to get the public's impression that this law will help those who need help, and it does not. So it's about the fact that this law is in force. The amendment went in the direction of the law, like most laws, to take place within 8 days of the date of adoption. This law, to explain to my colleagues, has 52 articles of which the applicant asks for 24 articles, so half of the law to come into force on 1 June 2016, so 9 months from now, and is being lodged in an illegally called extraordinary session of parliaments that is currently under way. What is the meaning of this amendment? If you want to help people to whom you have set these standards, then it is logical that this law enters into force as soon as possible and not that half of its provisions enter into force in 9 months. In addition to this issue I'm talking about, I'm going to appeal to the Constitutional Court's opinion, so I'm going to read to you just for the future. The Constitutional Court is obliged to note that the consent of the legal norm with the rule of law is not only worthy of the consequences that the interpretation of the legal norm itself could conclude that it would de facto arise, or that it would not arise, but rather according to the legal norm of a transitional or final nature in a democratic society based on the rule of law in order to meet the requirements of sufficient precision and determination, predictability and availability, resulting in the achievement of the principle of legal certainty and legal certainty, ensuring respect for protected constitutional values and goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117777	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117778	The Constitutional Court has warned, and I've exceeded the time but the motionary is important, the Constitutional Court is controlling you...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117779	But a colleague of the Mlakar...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117780	The constitution of the norms you bring, so listen to them if you don't want us. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117781	Comrade Mlakar, it would be all right if you didn't call in how to comply with the norm, and then you blatantly violate it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117782	That's exactly what I'm talking about, you don't follow norms or call a session, so give us a lecture. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117783	Then don't break them, please. Okay. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 34 votes in favour, no abstentions and 77 votes against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 27 abstentions and no votes against, passed the Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117784	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.894. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Economy Minister Alen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. At the 245th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a proposal for a law on renewable energy sources and a highly effective cogeneration was adopted with the final draft law itself. The basic reason for drawing up and proposing the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration is to meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards full harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU, and to unite and align the rules in the renewable energy sector in order to achieve the objectives of increasing the production and use of renewable energy sources in line with the objectives of sustainable development in accordance with EU Parliament and Council directives since April 2009. The reason for the adoption of renewable energy sources of this law is the unification of measures relating to the regulation of renewable energy areas and the very high efficiency cogeneration itself. In particular, reducing energy consumption through increased energy efficiency, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources is a major part of the measure programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or meet the objectives of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and related implementing agreements. These measures play a significant role in addressing the security of energy supply, promoting technological development, innovation, and ensuring employment opportunities and regional development, particularly in rural and remote areas. In April 2009, the EU Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, as well as the amendments and additions and the future abolition of the Directives of 2001, 2003 promoting the increased use of energy from renewable sources, and saving energy and increasing energy efficiency. The Intangible Directive provides for the EU-wide target of 20% of renewable energy sources of total direct energy consumption by 2020 for the accession of the EU to the EU Council on 13 May 2013 to the 2009 Directive and to promote the use of renewable energy for the accession of Croatia, which sets the target of 20% of renewable energy sources in total and direct consumption by 2020, while the Energy Efficiency Directive amends the Directive from 2009, 2010 and repeals the force of the Directive 2004 and 2006. Of course, the latter specifically determines the area of energy efficiency or highly efficient cogeneration. The purpose of this law is to facilitate the improvement and implementation of the energy policy of the Republic of Croatia in the field of renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration through the sustainable development of the projects concerned, thereby helping to reduce the adverse impacts of the energy sector on the environment and human health, reduce dependence on the import of fossil speech, ensure diversity and production of energy and security of supply, increase in employment and improve entrepreneurship in the energy sector, and encourage the development of new technologies based on the use of renewable energy sources and cogeneration or the development of sustainability of the national economy as a whole. This law regulates the planning and promotion of the production and consumption of electricity produced in facilities used by renewable energy sources and high efficient cogeneration, sets out measures to promote the production of electricity using exactly the same energy, regulates the implementation of a system of stimulating the production of electricity, regulates the issue of building a plant for renewable energy production and highly efficient cogeneration on state land, regulates the keeping of a register for projects, holders of projects of priority producers of electricity, addresses the issue of international cooperation in the field of renewable sources and other issues of importance for the use of renewable energy sources. This law also provides greater security for project holders and investors investing in renewable energy projects in terms of transparent competitions to be implemented to start the development of a project on state land. Furthermore, by regulating the register for projects, project holders and privileged producers of electricity, this law ensures greater transparency about the implementation of projects, and the possibility of encouraging the entire public concerned, given the fact that the register will have available information on the projects of the approved licences, as well as information on available quotas for entry into the incentive system or the premium system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117786	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It is the first club of Croatian leftists and colleagues Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117787	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since this is indeed in the right sense of the law that we are harmonising with the European community, then we can say that there are a lot of good solutions that have been offered in that section that talk about how to achieve the goal of having 20% of the consumption of electricity from renewable sources, so that I would not keep myself in that part of the law. But I would like to point out something else, as we see directives mostly talk about how to increase the share of energy from renewable sources and what else, how to increase energy efficiency. So I would go back to that part as the first thing that was done to increase energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia, is this law least speaking about it, at least talking about it, and that is something that should certainly be done in the Republic of Croatia. In the past 4 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has really had the possibility that energy efficiency programmes could be very much reduced by greenhouse gases and only by investing in state-owned buildings. These are programs and projects that have been offered for the last four years. These are schools that are mostly inadequately built, made at a time of socialism, they're hospitals, they're institutions of social care, they're courts, they're administrative bodies. Thus, a huge number of countries should have shown on their buildings how energy efficiency can be addressed, not only by reducing heating costs but also by reducing the cost of cooling. There's a question that we really needed to talk about, and why basically nothing's been done for the last four years. And then we will see that the basic problem of the Republic of Croatia is a very high debt, public debt and that any operation on such buildings would mean an increase in public debt, an increase in the deficit of the state budget. And that's why you didn't invest in that part. The question remains whether or not we have solved it, then we will see that we have not solved it, and that when we talk about how to achieve the objectives set by the European Community directives and also our Energy Strategy we will not be able to do at least not on state property because we have not solved the basic issues. One of the basic issues was how to introduce private investors into a public private partnership over investing in such matters on state property and that it was not even a government deficit at that time and that it was not a public debt. And that basically with the partner using these facilities, you slowly do everything necessary to invest, to reduce energy consumption, so that when it comes to warming, you probably also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. All of this had to be settled with several amendments to the Accounting Act, all of which had to be brought into line with some solutions in Europe so that they could somehow find solutions and start investments. For the reason that those interested in such partnership exist, capital in the Republic of Croatia exists and only valves were to be found to solve these problems, we have not solved them, and in this law we do not indicate what basic and major problems are because the majority of this part is state property, and until we do, know the greater effects on energy efficiency, I doubt they will be present. At this point, I don't even want to talk about production facilities, given that production plants have a number of problems in restructuring that are not even finished. Therefore, it would be good if we had offered some of these solutions on this law when we already aim to simply increase energy efficiency. And not only that, but to show that we are not the only ones who will copy part of the European directives and comply with European directives but we must show that we have a management that recognises the problems of Croatia and that we will find a solution to these Croatian problems if we want to achieve something. I won't say how much it contributes to the economy then, given that there would be a number of jobs in the construction sector, a number of jobs in the electricity industry, a number of jobs in the assembly industry. So we could do all this, and at least I expected when the new law comes that we will know what our domestic problems are and that at least that part of the problem we are trying to point out and solve in parallel with this law. When we talk about increasing the share of energy in renewable sources, then we must say that what concerns us is the issue of environmental protection. We have not applied all European regulations to this end, and we have a particular problem with renewable sources based on the consumption of bio-mass and cogeneration. For what reason? For the purpose of the production of organic electricity, a huge amount of heat appears. The European Community's very rigorous environmental regulations are and are simply insisting that 75% of this heat must be used to obtain permits. In Croatia for my sake, I would say projects that are started and because of, I would say I would like to speed up and we put below 50% of the heat that we can simply destroy in such a way that we let it into nature and in this way do damage to the environment. These are also things when we already define our compliance with the European Community that we should have resolved and harmonised the regulation that in the production of renewable energy, we must also think about environmental protection and take all measures and lay down regulation that we do not harm the environment by producing such electricity. Unfortunately, we do not see solutions in that part either, so it is still problematic when we agree with the European Community. And of course what basic legislation is written about really encouraging investors to invest. We see that certain regulations are also listed here in the case of state property, but what we really need to know is that the biggest problem is in the management of state property, and I'm simply afraid that this regulation without prejudice to some regulations that speak about state property management will not give the necessary effect and will not encourage investors to do what we want. And we see that projects like this can also bring new employment, growth of small industries, and then satisfaction and regulations that we want to achieve, which is that we really have 2020. 20% renewable energy consumption. We will support the law, but it is evident that we have not found solutions to Croatian problems on this law, we have only indicated what Europe is asking of us. And as long as we don't build in the laws Croatian solutions to our problems, I'm afraid we won't be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117788	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the ORAH, colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117789	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. At the very beginning of the debate on behalf of the ORAH Club on the Proposal for a Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration, with the final proposal of the law, I would like to say that the ORAH Club will be restrained when voting on this document. The reasons for this attitude of ORAH are as follows: we are in the last quarter of 2015. I was a minister in this government for the first six months of her term of office. I remember that the Law on Renewable Energy was extremely high on the government's declaration list of priorities during that period and that this law was planned to be discussed and adopted in the first half of 2012 and then until the end of 2012. I think it's really sad that we have a chance to discuss this extremely important law at the very end of the term. In the first half of the first year of the term of office, experts from the Institute of Hrvoje Požar worked on this law, and the team for the drafting of this extremely important law included the officials of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature, specifically my assistant, Prof. Dr. Davor Squirt, today's Europarliamentary of the ORAH. Already then, there was a deliberate delay and complexity of responsible people from the Ministry of Economy and in fact a great dissatisfaction with this crucial document for the green energy transition of Croatia. At the very end of the term of office, I repeat, we are discussing this proposal, which unfortunately has not solved the main obstacles to the fair, sustainable, green energy transition of Croatia. When we talk about green energy transition, we should bear in mind that it involves not only environmental or energy aspects, it involves both social and social aspects, or something called climate justice today. The first obstacle is that this document does not consider renewable energy sources either, but also total Croatian energy in a planned and strategic way. And if we don't know what we want and how we want it, then we can hardly and can be successful in implementing the principle objective of the green energy transition of Croatia. What is missing from this document is a map of Croatia's renewable energy sources, from which it would be clear exactly where Croatia wants to realise precisely defined types of renewable energy sources with clearly defined deadlines and dynamics of project realization. In fact, renewable energy sources are extremely important for combating climate change, the greatest global threat today to greening energy and improving the environment, but renewable energy sources are an extremely important potential or engine for sustainable economic development, and this term of sustainability does not apply to environmental protection but to the long-term dynamics of economic growth driven precisely by renewable energy projects and energy efficiency. What does that mean exactly? Our goal is to have 20% of renewable energy sources in direct energy consumption by 2020. We can reach that percentage within 5 years or 2 or 1 year. A sustainable approach implies exactly the planned dynamics of realisation of renewables projects over 5 years so that these projects are realised in a way that not only benefits the environment but also the Croatian economy. If we are going to realise these goals without the planned dynamics and in the short term, it will not benefit the Croatian economy but the economies of other countries that have developed technology, not to mention that within the time we are still relying on... tariffs it could be completely unsustainable in financial terms. Thus, this document does not solve the first problem of realising renewable sources, which is the lack of a strategic and plan approach that would ensure that not only renewable energy sources are successful, but total energy. This law will not solve a problem with a network which is a major limiting factor in the connection of renewable energy projects and does not have a successful realisation of renewable sources without smart networks or smart.... This law does not foresee the sustainability of the Croatian electricity system. Namely, renewable energy sources are an unstable energy source and need to be balanced with gas thermal power plants or hydroelectric power plants as top power plants that stabilise the system. In the total energy policy so far, the government has been favoured by base thermal power plants that are incompatible with renewable energy sources. Another major obstacle to the greater share of renewable energy in the Croatian electricity system is complicated and long-term bureaucratic procedures, and the problem is unfortunately not solved with this document. The principle of reference to this document is that the legislator did not provide a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the laws and regulations set out therein and as provided for by the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and by the Regulation on the implementation of the procedures for the assessment of the effects of the regulations. Although the funding provided for in the law is not a burden on the budget, the funds are collected from citizens and economic operators are unknown amounts and a transparent way of allocating funds for the needs prescribed by this law. This is indeed because I asked this question at the board's meeting about the amount to be allocated to renewable energy sources and the total prices for certain types of renewable energy sources, unfortunately, the applicant, i.e. the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, could not answer this question. The implementation of energy policy requires a significantly higher number of preconditions than this law. There are primarily no harmonised strategic programming documents, such as the new Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy. The new Water Management Strategy, the Water Management Plan for 2016-2021, the National Action Plan for renewable energy sources for 2020 and the spatial plans in line with today's formal legal framework and the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in relation to EU accession. The basis of all this must be a map of renewable energy sources, because we need to know exactly what locations, in which exactly the areas of Croatia we plan to realise and what exactly renewable energy sources with the concrete dynamics of the realisation of these projects. The law enters into force on 1 January 2016, however, the real establishment of a system and an eco-balance sheet group is expected from 1 January 2017 to question the achievement of the renewable energy targets in this cogeneration for 2020. The law does not establish a path towards the objectives of the new EU climate and energy framework by 2030, which predicts that the share of renewable energy sources will be as much as 40%. 40% together with 40% reduction in CO2 emissions. I will now specifically refer to certain articles of the law, such as the second paragraph of the third paragraph. The objectives for renewable energy sources from the current Energy Development Strategy, as well as other rules governing the implementation of energy activities, will not be possible or are being coordinated at national level. In Article 2(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following point is added: The Water Framework Directives shall explicitly specify and explain the reasons for the modification and modification of water bodies in the Water Management Plan. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. From a technical point of view, it is certainly more reasonable to protect the already invested social means that the management of an eco-balance sheet group is carried out by a transmission system operator or an operator of a distribution system, depending on the voltage level of the privileged producer’s connections, in such a way that each deviation within the eco-balance sheet group covers the activation of ancillary services within the eco-balance sheet group itself. And if this is not possible, the activation of auxiliary services available on the electricity market or the purchase of the necessary amount of electricity to balance. In this context, significant changes should be made in the process of running an eco-balance sheet group. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In December 2013, HERA, therefore, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency held 5 sessions where the Administrative Council reached a solution on the status of a privileged producer for several wind power plants projects, which exceeded the quota from the National Action Plan of October 2013 of 400 megawatts and thus forced HROT to sign purchase contracts before the change of the tariff system from 1.1.2014. HERA has violated such decisions the adopted objective of the National Action Plan, and transmission and distribution system operators in this Article and paragraph are forced to make the connection possible. Is the reason for this plea, and won't it lead to a constitutional lawsuit? Contracts are outside the current quota, it is not justified to oblige system operators to solve connections and to include those projects with automation in the incentive system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The question arises as to why the obligation to take energy is limited only to customers with their own production if they have the status of a privileged producer. Chapter 11. Eco-balance sheet group. The planning of production and management of an eco-balance sheet group should be carried out by system operators. And at the end of the debate, I'll look back on two more aspects. In some EU countries, the mafia has infiltrated renewables. For example, in the Czech Republic, in the solar energy sector, and in Italy in wind power plants. Renewable sources are today a very big business, and where big money is turned, the mafia is often involved in business. One way to prevent such a scenario is a strategic plan approach through a map of renewable sources of Croatia. Since such an approach is lagging behind in this bill, the question arises as to how the government plans to deal with such challenges. Another aspect is energy cooperatives that are trending in many EU countries. They are not designed at all by this law as well as their ability to realise renewable energy sources, i.e. renewable energy projects on the principle of self-sufficiency and sustainability alone, or to build a parallel local energy transmission network under their control outside the state system. In countries like France, Denmark and Austria there are such examples, and some countries have reacted poorly to such opportunities, so it would not be bad to learn from the mistakes of others, and to provide for such situations by law. According to ministry representatives, Croatia is now 17% of renewable energy sources in direct energy consumption, which includes the opposite of the usual European methodology and large hydropower plants. This is how the EU met us because otherwise we would be very far from realising 20% of renewable energy sources by 2020. But this must not drag us into false security because Croatia in the area of renewables, but also in total energy, still has a lot of work to do but also a lot of opportunities for quality sustainable economic development. When we bear in mind that Croatia imports 50% of energy then we see that by reducing energy imports and by substituting and renewable energy sources, we have a great opportunity for GDP growth and employment growth. But we will only achieve this if we approach energy in a strategic and planic way, without the figure in our pocket and without the desire to accommodate individual particular lobbys at the expense of public interest. And finally, I repeat, the ORAH Club will be abstention when voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117790	My colleague Damir Cain is not present, the club is losing its right. ... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117791	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly absolutely agrees with you that one of the preconditions for the implementation of this law is the map of the renewable sources of Croatia. A team more when we know that this law introduces the possibility of building renewable energy plants through a public tender on state land. Without a map of renewable energy sources preceding the implementation of all those documents stemming from the Environmental Protection Act, it is not possible to call a tender for the construction of a renewable energy plant on state land. Why? Because a tender can be opened, an invitation to tender is opened and it is possible for potential investors to actually implement a project to build a renewable energy source, and that, later on, in the implementation of the Nature Protection Act, for example, or the Environmental Protection Act, we find that this facility on that land, although it is foreseen in the spatial plan of a single unit of local or regional self-government, cannot be realised. Therefore, we fool ourselves when we talk about having a competition on state land, without having previously made a map of the renewable sources of Croatia that you mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117792	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117793	My dear colleague, I agree with you, and I would like to reach another problem, which unfortunately also appeared in Croatia. In fact, the fact is that in the current practice of realising renewable energy projects, a system of the wild west has been implemented in principle where a certain flag is being inserted there, and then it is being speculated with these locations and during the night some of the land speculatory principles earn millions. Such things must not happen and such things will not only happen if we have a strategic approach and know exactly what locations it is indeed justified to implement renewable energy projects. It's not acceptable to build wind power stations anywhere. We have a wind atlas, we know exactly what locations it is good to build these wind power plants, which are other conditions that are not a limiting factor for the realization of such projects. And I would especially like to stress that unfortunately we can talk that when we talk about renewable energy sources there are different approaches and different parameters. The fact is that in Croatia, wind power is quite potentiated in fact by solar energy. And solar energy is extremely important especially for small users and small electricity producers, very suitable for tourism. And what is even more important is covering and producing the most energy in times when this energy is most needed, that is, in the periods of the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117794	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117795	Thank you very much. You told your colleagues Holly at one point of your exposure which is completely understandable and clear to me, and it is acceptable that gas thermal power plants and power plants are actually compatible with renewable energy sources and that, given what you said, I know well that in my city, and perhaps you are familiar with the plan, there is also a project, gas thermal power plants and heat plants in Slavonski Brod. Unfortunately, in addition to all the resolved property-legal issues of the project, etc. They say, and here it's good that the Deputy Minister is here, that the Ministry of Economy is holding back the construction of that project in Slavonski Brod. Do you have information that makes it so and whether Plomin C, Plomin C, Ploče and others are actually or something else that would border on me not to say private, not to say quarreling or arguing or misunderstandings between investors, and we know and know who you are, so one of our generals retired, and the economy ministry that I'm about to say got caught up in that unfortunate fuel and the quality of oil derivatives last winter? So, I don't understand why an investment that would employ a thousand workers, which is therefore different from oil or coal, would be more ecological in Slavonski Brod? Who is the brake, why is it stopping and why in the city that is the second largest city in Slavonia, the sixth in Croatia, and which has a good perspective on this issue, therefore has the possibility to use it as a thermal power plant and as a heat plant cannot possibly allow the investor to make an investment of 500 million euros?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117796	Thank you very much. Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117797	My dear colleague, the answer is very clear. Unfortunately, this government as well as the previous government do not treat energy as one of the most important sectors, a sector that has huge potential for the economic development of Croatia and ultimately is strategic activity because water, energy and food are what any society cannot operate without unless the state is able to provide these resources to its population then we cannot say that we have any security and self-sufficiency of society. The reason why coal thermal power plants are forced is probably because the second reason is absolutely impossible to find when it comes to the fact that with a private investor, Japan's Marubeni consortium for a specific thermal power plant, Plomin C has been discussed, or negotiated in the amount of the price of the preferential purchase of electricity at a price of between 70 and 120 euros per megawatt. At the moment they negotiated when they negotiated the price on the electricity market was below 40 euros per megawatt. So, from this very great point of view, it's obvious that there is one project that can't be financially in any way if we completely ignore the aspects of environmental protection. I think it would be very reasonable for a country that is planning its energy to build a gas pipeline, a Dalmatian gas pipeline, because this would result in a large consumer of gas, not in fact having one unused project now, and not talking about the good potential of renewable energy sources as an unstable energy source, is just being realized by a major work in the region of Dalmatia. Therefore, the system could be balanced or evened, i.e. to ensure the stability of the system in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117798	There is a Club of HDZ Representatives colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117799	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues and the HDZ Club cannot support this bill in the text proposed by the government. And we at the club also keep this law late. And not only for the reasons of being a colleague, distinguished colleague Holly said because he was in the government's work programme he would have proposed in 2012, so it was extended to 2013, then here in 2014 we adopt him practically at the last session of the Croatian Parliament in this term, but also because on several occasions during the work of this Government and this Parliament we reminded the Government of the commitment and the need to pass the Law on Renewable Energy Sources in order to regulate himself in the Croatian energy sector. We talked about this immediately at the beginning and when the national budget was adopted in 2012 when the draft budget provided for the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources, which was supposed to serve faster to implement this law which was then to be adopted very quickly and, as we see, not that it was not adopted, but only today we are discussing it. But once the government has decided to implement this law and also at the last session as I said to the Croatian Parliament, then I hold that it was time to prepare where and where a better bill would solve several important things that would be regulated by the energy sector, especially in a work relating to renewable energy sources, which I will say a little more about. Despite these suggestions, however, for the government to move towards the creation of this law in order to establish a full order in the energy market, in the first place, of the energy coming from renewable energy sources. The government was more concerned that it was not at all in line with European energy policy more almost fully committed to the realisation of the fossil fuel-reliant energy sector. This was followed very soon by the Law on Mining, the Law on Hydrocarbons, the Law on the Establishment of the Agency for Hydrocarbons and the implementation of a public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. At that moment, the government had completely forgotten about renewable energy sources by announcing through the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project that Croatia would indeed become a small Norway in energy terms. We warned at the HDZ Club on several occasions, and the Environmental Protection Committee itself conducted two thematic discussions in which we demonstrated the illegality, intransparency of the process of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. We also warned the government that the project would be completely unspeakable, unspeakable, illegal, non-transparent that it would indeed experience a debacle. This has indeed happened because of the 29 research fields that are in the competition, in this competition for the possibility of research and exploitation to date there are 3 more fields left and this 2 has INA, 1 has an Italian company ENI together with Medoilgas. I believe and we believe that these three fields will not be signed until the end, although the government announced the signing of the contract at the beginning of this month, and the deadline for the same competition was April 2, this year. Thus, although the government has left aside a very important law for the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia and concerns renewable energy sources, it is absolutely committed to the realization of the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project in the Adriatic, as we have not passed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources nor have we achieved any success with the great pompous announced project of hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the Adriatic. Another thing we cannot support this law for is an unsettled financial framework for this law. What's it about? First of all, it says in the law itself that its implementation will not require a lot of new funding in the state budget. This is true in one part because the law refers therefore to a market where funds are collected directly by citizens through other non-taxable first-row fees for renewable energy sources. However, there is a Law on the assessment of the impact of a regulation in which we should have been clearly told by the Assembly and the entire Croatian public what this law means for Croatian citizens if it were realised in this draft or proposal that we are discussing it today in the Croatian Parliament. According to the national action plan, it is envisaged that the implementation of the law or the fulfilment of the national objective provided for in this law, which is based on the European Energy Package or on the 2009 Directive, would require that 20% of the energy coming from renewable energy sources be consumed in direct consumption. This objective has been transposed in this law and, in a literal sense, according to the national action plan, it implies that by 2020, an additional 400 megawatts of electricity coming from wind power plants, 50 solar and 20 from biomass, which means that for the realisation of this goal, an additional 400 megawatts of electricity paid by citizens at each kilowatt would have to be increased by around 10 June, not according to the calculation of us in the HDZ club, but according to the HERA report it gave for an average household in the Republic of Croatia in order to meet this national target that was given and envisaged in this law, would increase the electricity price for the average household in Croatia by 98 kuna. Therefore, the implementation of this law as envisaged, according to the HERA report, I say not to us at the HDZ club, means a significant increase in electricity in the Republic of Croatia around 10 drops per kilowatt. We therefore maintain that, in addition to this law, in particular in its reasoning, it was necessary to say that there would indeed be a significant increase in electricity so that this law could be implemented in order to provide sufficient resources to the Croatian market operator with electricity so that it could pay the preferential producers the difference between the production price and the market price for the purchase of energy coming from renewable energy sources. There is no such thing in this law, probably because we are in pre-election time, which would certainly not have been well received by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so the government did not write in this law, probably hide it from the Croatian public. It's on one side. On the other hand, why this financial framework is not well-set and we find it difficult to implement, it is the introduction of a market premium. It is clear to us that the introduction of a market premium is in line with a European directive which requires a different way of encouraging and subsidising renewable energy sources, but we do not understand why there is not a single word in this law on the way of calculating the market premium, but it is said that sublaws will not know how many months it seems to me that the Minister will solve the way in which the market price is determined. So we do not know how and how this law will be implemented at all and how we can support it when we do not know what the criteria will be, which will define the market price of electricity from which the market premium will then be passed on to all investors, to all owners of the renewable energy plant. If we know that the law enters into force on 1 January next year, then we are not clear and we do not know how this law will be implemented when it is not defined how and how this market premium will be established which is intended for the individual electricity producer coming from renewable energy sources. So this very important financial aspect of this law has not been resolved, it is certainly not even the producers of electricity coming from renewable energy sources can and is not clear to them how and how they can then go into new projects to meet this national goal that I was talking about earlier. As regards the introduction of a public tender for the construction of a renewable energy plant on state land, we support and maintain that it is good to enable the construction of new renewable energy facilities in such a way, but what I said earlier and in the replica, the assumption of this competition, and it is certainly good to build a map of renewable energy sources because without this map, no project is possible, no competition can be realised on state land, no matter how well the government's intentions were to enable these facilities to be built on state land. So it's not possible to realize without that map and the assumption is that it's a competition to make this map of renewable energy. Furthermore, what is certainly important to mention is that the introduction of... groups as one of the registers of renewable energy sources was given to the Croatian energy market operator, in our view it was more logical that... a group such as the register of privileged producers is run by the resorient ministry and that the ministry has absolute data and when it comes to installed installations on renewable energy sources on the one hand and on the other hand when it comes to all of those privileged producers who would then be led in this... group which is foreseen by this law to be run by the Croatian electricity market operator. And in the end, the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support the draft law in this text even though we believe that Croatia needs this law but should have been done better than the Government has done. This is how it seems to us that the Government declares its desire and will to establish a new energy system in Croatia, to strengthen it with new facilities that are coming, which represent renewable energy sources and that this law actually serves as a fig leaf to the Government to cover the inability it has shown in the realization of the construction of the energy sector. Let us remember that at the beginning of the mandate, the government claimed and spoke about investment tsunamis primarily in the energy sector. So we will remember that the construction of the second phase of Plomina was announced, the construction of Omble, the construction of Zagreb on the Sava, the construction of the Osijek thermal power plant, the construction of the small hydropower plant Senj, Kosinj, the construction of the project of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. None of these projects that were literally meant to empower Croatia as an energy state, none of these projects have indeed been realised. And now here we are, at the end of the term of office, the government has remembered that this law should actually be passed at the beginning of the mandate and ensure that all assumptions are met in the Republic of Croatia and that the goals that Croatia has adopted as a member of the European Union, which is that by 2020 20% of energy in direct consumption is achieved in renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117800	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117801	Comrade Bačić, you said you didn't understand how this law would be implemented, with a government like this, with no thought at all. Since the start of the mandate, we have listened to and read pages and pages of texts, newspaper articles and Ombli and Plomina, and I don't know what not. In order to take into account the way energy is thought in our country, I will give you an example in which I have actively participated in the realization of a huge project. We have a measuring reduction station east of the coastal area, directly connected to the wells in the northern Adriatic and we have a finished thermal power plant that is one of the largest contaminants of the Kvarner Bay on the mapute. INA and MOL to gas, rebuild the Urinj refinery plant with the construction of the pipeline to the INA area next to which the thermal power plant is located. I was then, since we were preparing project documentation for the pipeline route from a few kilometers of INA mergers, proposing to the heads of HEP to join the INA and MOL project and that this thermal power plant be switched to gas, from the Croatian sub-sea, the gas pipeline passed by the thermal power plant a few kilometers away and the INA and MOL made a pipeline to the thermal power plant. You know what they said to me? That it's not in their long-term plans. Well, now I wonder what the long-term plans of this government or the short-term to solve this problem will await us in the future, solving the country's energy independence. And the other day, I was in Slavonia, if a small town with a minor budget, the Pleternica can build a hydrocentral on one of its own words to solve the question of public lighting for its 37 settlements, I ask myself what this government has been doing for four years. We've been doing studies for Omble, we've been negotiating, I don't know what to do, and I don't know what kind of referendums in Istria, we've got our gas pipeline passing by the thermal power plant in existence, and we're not able to reroute it to gas. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117802	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117803	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Klaric, in a figurative sense, said that we do not understand. It is clear to us in the Croatian Democratic Community club that the law in such a way as it is envisaged, that it cannot meet the goal set by it, which is that Croatia is establishing a new 500 megawatts of electricity coming from renewable energy sources by 2020. That is, the government has deliberately silenced that this goal could be achieved, reached, achieved, that the government must provide funds to the Croatian energy market operator, so that it can pay for it. And the basic income of CROTE is the compensation for renewable energy sources. At this point, the compensation provided by HROTE-G cannot respect what the HERA has already given as licences to privileged renewable energy producers. So this could be realised, the government must increase the price of electricity by at least 10 lp per kilowatt, so that it can ensure that these new plants are built in order to reach that national target. And that's what this law doesn't say and we disagree. And that's why we can't support the law in a proposal like this. So the government should be clear here, to the end transparent and say, that we would reach this goal, we must secure the resources of this and that, and then we will be able to finance these funds by building new, or by providing newly built facilities with a preferential price for the production of energy coming from renewable energy sources. This is an important, important segment, which is why there is a Law on determining the impact of regulations that has not been made and that is the fundamental reason why this law cannot be adopted in such a text.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117804	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117805	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'll continue with that question, but I hope to welcome your answer. Namely, why is the question very clear and concrete, why has there been a stalemate in the construction of a gas heat plant in Slavonski Brod, whose investor is Mr. Cermak, now I will be absolutely clear and whose investment height is about 500 million euros and which would provide about 1200 jobs in Slavonski Brod? I'm interested in it, and I don't have anyone to answer, and speaking, so that there won't be any further speeches and talks, I'd best ask you as Deputy Minister or Minister, or I'll ask Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic why he can't start building that thermal power plant. That's one thing. Although Mrs. Holly said that gas thermoelectrics are compatible because of all those fossil gas energy sources, however, the least ecologically harmful and most acceptable compared to other energy sources such as coal which is the worst, and then the mule spoken of by counterpart Klaric here in the Croatian Parliament, and the gas pipeline passes a few hundred meters from the thermal power plant itself which cannot therefore be transferred from the mule to say so as to the gas plant. Secondly, in the assessment and sources of the necessary means for the implementation of this law, it is literally necessary to provide specific resources in the state budget for the implementation of this law. How much resources in the state budget and where does that come from? That's what my colleague Bačić is, I haven't replicated him, but he asks if it will lead to the accumulation, so the burden on our citizens and other economic operators regarding the purchase of electricity for 10 limes as predicted by kilowatts. Then that measure that we were just talking about 200 kunas for our social welfare, so social security cases, is actually annulled if that's the case. Well, we're looking for that answer. It seems that this law is completely unarranged, and even more so seems to have been an alibi before the elections of our population that we have passed such a law, and further an alibi before the European Union, which in its 2001, 2003, 2009 directives, therefore set those 20-20-20 in the use of renewable energy sources, the reduction of greenhouse gases and clean air in the European Union area. Although we have a refinery in Slavonski Brod, in the Bosnian Ship, so perhaps we can only dream about it. What asked me to report for the debate was a proposal sent by a citizen. I would say the man designed and sent a proposal to the Ecology and Energy Efficiency Fund on the hands of Nikola Blažekovic to the fund and to Mrs Vesna Bukarica. So he told me, I have an e-mail here that says, of course, respected, etc., which says he proposes to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to open a public tender for the procurement of solar systems for the preparation of sanitary hot water and for the account and needs of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. After choosing the most complete and most favourable provider of solar systems, Croatian citizens take over according to the principle of voucher solar systems according to the needs of their own family household. When the system is taken over, each citizen assumes a minimum credit obligation to pay the price of such a set. Credit arrangements should be provided by the Republic of Croatia or the Fund with very favourable interest via the HBOR or the Croatian Post Bank. By special decision, the Republic of Croatia could even give up VAT in favour of the installation of solar sets by authorised installers. Most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia has such climatic conditions, for example. of Germany which has a huge number of solar photo stations, therefore it has climate conditions that in a proposed way every citizen of the solar kit could provide the needs of his household for warm sanitary water at a very high level. For example. in Slavonia it is absolutely certain that it can be covered with 65% of the need for hot water solar systems, and in Dalmatia even more or almost total, in 100% amount. According to current offers of commercial houses, the kits are overpriced, about 15000 kuna to more so that it is too expensive for citizens. The combined purchase of the set's prices would be significantly reduced, and the proposed credit model for citizens without excessive debt could be used to pay for the systems set up. The monthly rate of such a loan, depending on the payment deadline, would not exceed the cost of heating hot water in a classic way. So there are solutions, especially when it is considered that citizens can encourage the power supply of washing machines and dishes to be hot water from solar containers. The preparatory actions should be the determination of several types of solar systems, the orientation of the roof and the number of household members. The distribution of the system by signing credit arrangements could be done by the county offices of the Ecology and Energy Efficiency Fund. So in the county, the office can do that. This is a fairly accurate framework for Croatian citizens to supply their houses with solar kits, with minimally negligible costs for the Republic of Croatia. That model in preparation and implementation can be adapted and changed according to the needs indicated, and all of this can be provided by the Energy Efficiency Fund. So one proposal sent to the Fund by citizens of the Republic of Croatia from Slavonski Brod, Tomislav Pupic, to say by name and last name. If Mr. Nikola Blazekovic replied, since there was no answer, then the journalist asked, after the citizen met the journalist with his memo, so he said, this gentleman from the fund, that the fund cannot conduct the purchase for a large amount of devices and then asked them, so no one asked the fund to sell the devices, the citizen chooses it with those who produce, the manufacturer. Regardless of this, a single solar system is specific to each individual so that in that part of the proposal, we find it very difficult to determine a unique specification... even though no one has asked. So a simple unserious consideration of citizens' proposals that, well-intentioned even to the government, although they may not be politically compatible, says colleague Holly, but suggests a proposal that could completely resolve this situation at the minimum cost of the state, and then what it says here in the assessment of the resources needed will be necessary, minimum funds can be written because citizens would pay for it. As regards schools and state institutions, hospitals, etc. Well, it was all built as Mr. Linic said in that former system, and it's mostly flat roofs very suitable and very similar for installation, so solar systems. What has been said that Croatia has accepted some obligation to build 500 megawatts by 2020, so the force in renewable energy facilities will actually be very difficult to achieve through this law because it is general, unsettled and what colleagues have already noticed in their discussions is actually not the parameters that people would actually be leading to building these. Even more so is the insistence on these coal thermal power plants that it's simply amazing. And as a colleague here said, it's actually a little bit more than convincing, and it's clear to all the people and citizens that it's a bargain. Totally clear, because so stubborn and persistent in the touristic area to build thermal power plants. It is the same as the use of oil on the Adriatic, so the exploitation of not research, but the exploitation of oil on the Adriatic gives the same pollution if not the larger coal thermal power plants in Plomin and in Plots. But that's the government's plan and we can't do anything. They've got the council majority, so nothing. When we compare other European countries with Croatia and I myself and those who were in the European Parliament so they traveled on the Strasbourg – Frankfurt bus to the airport, then they could see somewhere in Germany near Frankfurt near the department store whether or not Lidl or I know what a huge field of photo voltage stations installed from whom. Is it a state or just this company that owns a department store? I don't know what it's all about. These are endless fields of photo voltage stations in Germany, somewhere in the middle where the number of sunny days, the number of sundial hours is much smaller than in any part of Croatia, even in the northernmost region of Međimurje. But Germany doesn't run away from it. And not only that, Germany is and Mrs. Merkel, as far as I know, so it's not clear to me, that we who are constantly relying on us and not to say we're mimicking those countries west, and Mrs. Merkel said she'd shut down everything and cancel out the coal thermal power plant from where we invented new technology and so much we insisted on coal thermal power plants on the Adriatic Sea in Ploč and Plomin. It will not be clear to me at all, I say, so it is clear to the citizens that it is a high degree of doubt about guessing, the only reason that can be is because, secondly, I see no reason. And about the plans, about the other hydro power plants that were mentioned here, actually, here in these four years, there's nothing. We are now turning at least so according to this law towards renewable energy sources, but there are insufficiently more concrete legal provisions to regulate it, and there is insufficient data on the spending of funds on how and from where to obtain funds. And here's one, I can give it to you, Mr. Deputy Minister, the way we could get rid of it. The HDSSB club will be, of course, for the largest number of renewable energy sources, for highly efficient cogeneration plants for thermal power plants, heat plants. Well, we have great opportunities in Slavonia about that, about the exploitation of biomass. It's just like being ordered for Slavonia. Unfortunately, that too was foreseen in Slavonski Brod. It seems to me that it went to Novigrad Podravski such a thermal power plant, a heat plant, and it is built with private money, private funds. As far as that thermal power plant went, I don't know the heat in Novigrad Podravski since I'm not from that area. In any case, to build a renewable energy source incentivise the economy, it would encourage me to say that small industry, then the electricity industry, the construction industry, and we could certainly expect it and I can't say how much, as it says here in this bill, some means would be needed, and so certainly a good number of people would be employed in construction and later in maintaining these facilities. Given the indeterminateness of this law, the HDSSB club will be restrained and I expect answers to the questions asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117806	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117807	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the law that I expected there would be no large dissonant tones, and it is not too much because it is except that it bears the "E" mark and that it is in line with European regulations it is indeed according to its standards, by its content not only in form, indeed European law and therefore all the good, positive experience and legal gain that exists in some way transposed into this law and therefore it is good. But what is more important is that this law regulates finally what we must on the one hand, but also what is needed not only because of the EU and because of the law but because it is simply a standard that we want and which we need to establish. Namely, there has been a huge cry, justified especially in recent decades, on the energy of fossil origin. It is primarily limited capacity, a period of duration, etc., but on the other hand, from environmental aspects, it is certainly not the most acceptable energy. And it should in any way encourage the production of other forms of energy, so those who are not fossil origin, those who are from renewable sources. And that's why this law is good because it really creates a good legal basis, a legal basis to finally move more seriously in that direction. We haven't done much in that direction, it could have been done more in recent years, but this law finally gives the assumption that it is done. Why does he matter? Well, because for all of us, it's like consumers, whether it's about citizens, about the economy in the interest of having energy above all that's cheaper. And now that there's energy on the market, so hep power no longer has a monopoly, you can buy from whoever you want then, first of all, is who's gonna offer you cheaper. You don't know when you're buying that energy from a renewable or fossil source. Because we don't know who HEP bought it from, produced it or bought it from. It is also in their interest to get as cheap energy as possible, to get or produce as cheap as possible. And they don't care what source it's from. But that's why as a community, as a society, it's in everyone's interest to make these renewables as much as possible and that's why we need to encourage them because they're not even in the market. Because as long as production from renewable energy sources is not on a market basis, it can be more competitive or competitive with the cost of production than fossil sources, so far it will need state support, incentives, care. And this law makes that right in that sense. This law is therefore good also because it finally combines in one place all the regulations relating to renewable energy sources. So to systematize, to simplify, to find it all in one place, which is good. On the other hand, it is good that it introduces a register of renewable energy sources, a unique register that has never been so far. And he would have said the assumption of creating these maps of renewable energy sources that we were talking about. So first we have to or parallelize them. I agree it would be good to have them, but she's gone, but she needs to start working. And it won't be easy and easy to do because there's going to be a lot of struggles about it. Because even when it's a renewable energy source and it's an ecologically clean question, it's acceptable for some other reasons. Does he disrupt the view of the place, would each of us want over his own house to have a wind power plant? It's not ecologically harmful, but the question is whether or not we want it sticking over our heads. Therefore, it will not be easy to do so. So, first of all, you need to see where there are natural assumptions about it, and then, of course, the local community should participate in it and give its consent because it is not just an ecological issue that is therefore a question and the visors of a particular place, etc. I personally think that this provision 20% of the energy needed to produce or have from renewable sources Croatia can, I hope within a relatively short period and within this deadline, regulate. First of all, Croatia has good hydro potentials that can be used, there are plenty of sun and wind. So we have both the sun and the wind and the water that enable us, so we have natural assumptions about it, and we now have legal assumptions about it, and I think it's going to be very easy for that quota to meet within the deadline. What is often said here alone, at least here today in the debate is a lot of talk only about renewable energy sources, mainly about it, a little talk about cogeneration although the law refers not only to renewable energy sources but also to high efficient cogeneration. I think there's a word to be said about that, too, because that's what bored us very little or rarely took care of. So we had huge examples, cases of energy spilling, above all, heat that could therefore be used as thermal energy, not to go into nature, not to go into the air, etc. And I think it's good that it's regulated, too, to encourage it. Because so far we've had very little cogeneration, something in the industry. Well, here's the last couple of years, something's started in agriculture, but I think it's not enough, and I think it should be encouraged, not only by renewable sources, but also by cogeneration and trigeneration where it's possible and where it's necessary to use that energy and to cool it in the summer season. I think it's a good thing that this law is also guaranteed, or that it's settled. Because what's the point? So, first of all, when we talk about energy efficiency, it's a lot of talk about it, so the goal is to spend less energy that is not at the expense of standards, quality of life, production, etc. Less energy can be spent by reducing industrial production that needs energy or by reducing the standard of citizens. So, not by reducing the standard of citizens, not by reducing industrial production, by reducing what you need as a by-product when you invest energy but by spending less energy. So, to be more rational, to be more efficient, and already when you have to spend it, there's simply a standard that you have to spend to be in most of it not from fossil sources but from renewable sources. And I think this law gives a really good basis to go into. The law also solves a new incentive system, in a different or better way, more transparently I would say, more objectively. And so anyone who produces from renewable energy sources and who needs a certain incentive or state support to be on the market will be able to get it equal, but in one objective and transparent way, in such a way as to establish the reference value of the producer of that type of energy whether it is solar or hydro or wind power plants and then to establish a market price in Croatian conditions and then determine how to say uniquely for all producers and not for that, and not in a way that someone is more irrational in production to respect its cost of production than simply some objective criteria. And this is a good em will be transparent, em will be for all the same and will in some way introduce competition among producers that will function in the same conditions. What is good is that this law also solves the construction of these facilities when it comes to state land, which will be a lot when it comes to hydro potential, you simply don't have any potential or existing hydropower plants, hydropower plants, no matter how much capacity, that it's not fully or partly state-owned land. It's just that all the waterways are state-owned, so it's just impossible. So I agree with the observation that a map of renewable energy sources would be good if we had it, but what we need to do is start it and it won't be a simple job and it won't be a one-time job, it'll be a process that will have its dynamics, but the sooner it starts, the sooner we'll end it. Because I'm saying, because I'm saying there's gonna be a lot of debate about it, and it's certainly going to be a lot of debate, because no matter what it is, it's environmentally acceptable and it's often not going to be acceptable for some other reason. So it won't be easy to discuss. In any case, the law makes a good assumption about what I have to do, but what we want to do is force renewable energy production. This is a good assumption, and I think in the next 4.5 years, this law will give its results first and foremost through the fact that we will certainly increase the production of renewable energy by a few percent and that it is our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117808	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117809	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Deputy Deputy Minister, therefore, as this proposal stresses at first the basic objective of adopting this law is to bring the EU's acquis into line with the main objective both of Croatia and of Europe and of the global reduction of greenhouse gases, and in this respect by 2020, we will have to achieve those 20% of renewable energy in total consumption. However, we face other problems that are not only energy but also political and geostrategic security of energy supply, for example. as well as one of the key problems. And by this law, or by its application, we are confident in the HNS will achieve positive shifts in at least these two important spheres if not in many others. In addition, the promotion of technological development and innovation, increasing employment opportunities and regional development, etc. etc. There is also a general need to regulate the renewable energy system in terms of legislation. It's already listed in the details of what this law is all about, I'm not going to repeat it, it's a long and thorough list. What he would only single out is greater transparency to all those who enter projects from renewable sources as well as to the general public who can be interested in it for these or those reasons. And what I particularly want to say is that this law is a small addition, an important but small addition to the overall energy policy of the Ministry of Economy and this government. This government and the Ministry of Economy, which is directly responsible for this, have achieved in the past four years that Croatia has become one great star on the EU's energy map from an energy black hole, and that is the same thing we can be proud of and that in these pre-election times that are constantly being preceded by us, we can also boast. Encouraging the production of electricity from renewable sources and increasing the share of energy produced from renewable sources are targets which, of course, need not be specifically explained, but more specifically, this law makes it possible, that is, if applied of course, to achieve wider use of its own resources, reducing dependence on energy imports, efficient use of energy, opening new jobs both in energy and in other activities, development and innovation and diversification of energy production with an increase in security of supply. I have already said 20% by 2020 with this percentage being included and energy produced in plants that are not connected to the electricity grid and using renewable sources. This law also provides that the data ministry will publish the total energy consumption on its websites. In this respect, a national action plan is adopted setting out the objective of the share of renewable energy with a view to showing and assessing market conditions, comparative analyses, long-term and sectoral objectives, annual forecasts, measures to achieve objectives, etc. What is also interesting is that the Republic of Croatia can conclude with other EU Member States an agreement on the statistical transfer of a certain amount of energy from renewable sources from one Member State to another. Therefore, the amount of energy transferred shall be either rejected or added to a specific Member State and shall be taken into account when assessing whether the country transferring or transferring the requirements set out in the national objective and the national action plan are met. According to this proposal, the Republic of Croatia may also cooperate with Member States on joint projects for renewable electricity generation and also on its own, whether together with other Member States we can work with third countries. And what is also interesting under certain conditions, we can ask the European Commission to take energy produced and consumed in a third country for the purposes of calculating the share of energy from renewable sources under certain conditions set out by law. These statistical transfers and cooperation with Member States or with third countries shall also be regulated through international contracts. Real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia may be founded on the right of construction and service for the purpose of building production facilities using renewable sources. Interested in this show their interest to the ministry, the ministry then conducts a public tender which is required to do twice a year unless there is no expressed interest. Of course, the competent ministry also runs the production plant register, cogeneration plants and privileged manufacturers, and the important thing is that the status of the privileged electricity producer and they are obliged by operators to ensure the priority supply of electricity to the network and that the status of the priority producer is also a condition for the exercise of the right to incentives, with the emphasis that the use of heat produced in the plant must be acceptable to the environment and sustainable and used for economic purposes. There are two ways of encouraging this programme of state aid. It is one incentive by the State premium in which the operator pays the preferential producer a certain cash amount for the net supply of electricity. The premium also encourages the construction of new plants primarily by stressing that the new facility can also be considered as the reconstruction of the existing facility in accordance with the conditions specified in Article 30c and the right to a premium will have the most favourable bidders in a public tender to be organised at least once a year. Another way of encouraging is guaranteed a ransom price. It is a contract guaranteeing the purchase price of electricity, and it is also achieved through a public tender. What I want to point out in the end is that suppliers are obliged by electricity to take over surpluses from privileged producers who have the right to permanently connect to the power grid plus others in the law of those conditions. To conclude, it is in our opinion that the opposition counterpart's view of a very concrete, well-worn and modern law and the HNS will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117810	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117811	We move to a decision on the final draft law on renewable energy sources of highly efficient cogeneration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 894. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the vote is 77 votes in favour of, with one abstention, 22 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the government, Allen Leveric, deputy minister to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117812	Thank you very much, Mr. President, MPs and MPs. This amendment, the amendment in question, states that the money for the payment of the incentive cannot be used Amendment one. [[/The Incursion President: Dear Deputy First Amendment No. 1. One at a time.]] Explanation. Therefore, the amendment in question provides that money for the payment of incentives cannot be collected by the sale of the guarantee of origin of electricity issued for electricity by the electricity market operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117813	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117814	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the honourable ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community club also said during the debate on the bill that the fundamental lack of this law is an unsettled system of financing for the promotion of electricity production from renewable energy sources. And now I'm not saying again, we're saying that these are important shortcomings in the very system of financing the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources. At that time, I said that in the law, the government did not explain how and how it would provide the means to meet the national objective towards which by 2020 Croatia must provide 500 megawatts of electricity, an additional 500 megawatts of electricity from renewable energy sources and how to finance the construction and payment of electricity coming from renewable energy sources. And I said that not according to the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club, but according to the HERA report to assume that this system could be financed and built, it will be necessary to increase the price of electricity, or electricity prices, or compensation for the construction of renewable energy sources by 10 drops per kilowatt. And that through the adoption of the law, the government should be made clear whether it will indeed be in line with this HERA report, in accordance with the national objective established to allow such a huge increase in the price of electricity in the Republic of Croatia. This amount of 10 lips per kilowatt was also foreseen when three sources of financing was the incentive of electricity from renewable sources. This amendment now deletes one of the three envisaged sources, disappears, leaves only two sources from which a system of building and encouraging electricity should be financed. Therefore, it is expected that when there were three sources now one is deleted for whom we at the club was not clear how and in what way that source will be used to finance the promotion and construction of electricity is nothing more than to expect that according to this law and its realisation of electricity prices will be even higher than that price that even HER predicted in her report that followed the adoption of this law. And to conclude, therefore, the law is not laid down in its most important segment, and that is the way of financing that entire system. In this regard, during the duration of the debate with the public interest, the most objections came from the state administration body, i.e. the HROT of the Croatian electricity market regulator and from HEP. Therefore, it is those who will be in charge of implementing this system that make the most of the remarks, and even their comments are not adopted, that we can think of the quality of the law that came here to the Croatian Parliament. And not to say that by this change, the government has confirmed exactly what we said in the club, which is that this law, based on this kind of funding, can be difficult to achieve the national goal, which is that by 2020 Croatia from renewable energy sources will provide 20% of energy in direct consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117815	Thank you, too, dear colleague Bacic. No further applications have been made for amendment number one debate. I'm closing the debate on that amendment. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia number one. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, no abstentions and 27 votes in favour of Amendment No 1. The governments of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the final bill. Please Deputy Minister, Amendment 2. Vladin. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117816	Thank you very much. Amendment number two of this amendment sets out the erasure of the paragraph of the law which determines that the electricity market operator as the body responsible for keeping the register may trade the guarantee of origin with the guarantee of origin of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117817	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 27 votes against amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Three, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117818	Thank you very much. This amendment shall consistently implement Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117819	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, no abstentions and 25 votes against Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Four Vladins too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment harmonizes the level of regulated buy-in price with the regulated buy-in price of a certain law, which regulates the obligation to take electricity from suppliers since it is the same regulated buy-in price.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117821	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. Four to the government. There's no interest. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. 4. I'm closing the debate in general. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. ... Yes, to apologize, you're right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First we must vote on the amendment, determine whether it has become an integral part. Thank you very much. Let's go back to Amendment No. 4. Please vote on Amendment No. Four to the government. So you voted on the amendment. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 27 votes in favour of Amendment No. 4 and became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 25 against the adoption and adoption of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117822	And tonight we'll discuss: 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 895. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. And now I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic to give a preliminary explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117823	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let me explain in short lines these changes and the additions to the Excise Tax Act. As you know the general basic excise tax law with its major amendments and additions was passed just before it was adopted in this conference, something before the entry into force of Croatia's EU accession, and it came into effect 1.7 this year, and then in the debate in this House, we said that in that relatively narrow maneuvering space that the regulation allows... tariff goods that we will look at all aspects of this law and in this narrow maneuvering space that we have thanks to this international mechanism that we will try to see when the law works in practice to make certain changes and complements. And so that analysis that has now been in existence for more than two years alone has shown that we have to change it or that we want to change it in some smaller lines and that in three directions. The first direction we estimated that we could do something better to stimulate business activity in the Republic of Croatia, which is what more or less came out in the media around small brewers, I will say something more later, small and medium brewers, and we have assessed the second direction that, by regulation of the excise tax code itself, we are not good enough to prevent large tax frauds and so we have made a step further in the amendments to this law. And in practice we have seen, as I said, this dynamic area and how European courts make a certain decision on a daily basis and strengthen judicial practice in order to bring this law into line with the European acquis at certain technical levels. When we talk about the first direction as I said, the first major change is the introduction of reduced rates for independent small brewers. The second major change is the introduction of so-called The Institute of Direct Delivery, and in order to facilitate and flexible the movement of excise products in the delay system, in order to reduce the transport and operational costs of economic operators around which I say we have no doubt that they are doing their job legally. The third group of slightly smaller changes is about simplifying the excise product process sold on markets and at convenient sales sites, some more about it later. The second large group and direction we are going is to effectively prevent major tax fraud, i.e. tax ejaculation and here we have grouped this proposal on two changes. One is a better regulation of tobacco movement. tobacco in the same way to limit the existing trade which, unfortunately, has not been covered by the current Excise Tax Act. These other and better regulation of the movement of oil for oiling or so on. lubricanate. It is important to say that no measure in our assessment, we will hear your debate, no measure in this area that in any way derails or pressures control itself. gives a slightly larger maneuvering space to customs, in no way affects the business of good entrepreneurs on a regular basis and in no way should it have any damage as legal business. And the third group of changes is literally law enforcement, so principles, legal principles not twice about the same... Since it is not allowed to charge the excise duty on the amount of energy corresponding to the volume of the fuel tank increased by a certain penalty amount, it is our old provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So unless, eventually, the customs officer, not possibly, but it happens, it happens, I'll tell you exactly 653 times in the last year, they've caught a certain entity that uses illegal energy, then according to the current law, that criminal code was another 100 containers. According to my legal principle and according to my judgment... It's not possible, but we've improved the criminal provisions for that kind of offence, so I believe we'll achieve efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we want to ease the burden on legitimate economic operators, we want to strengthen the system of supervisory measures to combat tax invasion more effectively and we want to bring excise legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. When we talk about what I said to the most significant or the media and everyone else, and the most financially significant amendment to this bill, we suggest that we introduce reduced rates of excise duty for independent small brewers with the aim of improving the situation of domestic small and medium brewers. A positive impact on more equidistant regional development and on the development of less developed areas, a lot of brewery has brought almost everything from this area, so they come from these areas in Croatia. And we therefore propose the introduction of 4 tax classes and for the sake of a fairer effect of introducing a differentiated rate. The upper limit, therefore, for those small and medium brewers we propose to you by this law is 150,000 hectolitres, so annual production of 150,000 hectolitres. So we suggest that compared to the standard excise rate of 40 kuna per hectolitre of this bill, up to 5,000 hectolitres is 50% or 20 kuna, and then goes up to 125 to 35 percent that I'm not talking about these numbers now, you have them in materials. What I'm saying is that most countries, therefore, have this maneuvering space that allows countries, as I have initially said up to 200 thousand hectares of their own kind of support through a smaller excise duty, provide European regulations. 22 countries know this today, Croatia if you accept it will be 23 countries that in some way facilitate the business of small and medium brewers. The introduction of a direct delivery institute is a second relief in this area in order to reduce the obligations of excise duties on the reduction of transport and operating costs, as I was saying, will be able to enable the place of receipt of excise duty products to be different from the place of receipt indicated in the status appropriations, so the customs office will be able to provide the delivery location of the goods and goods with an orderly, undermining the orderly, tax, customs and any other entity. The third amendment that we are counting on to facilitate or breathe the economic aspect is a simpler and more meaningful arrangement of excise duty procedures at the places of sale, thus facilitating treatment for those who place such products at that time, especially during the summer time, convenient sales very often, for such a thing should always have been written consent of the customs office, this bill therefore obligates small entrepreneurs and OPGs. These would be about the measures we propose, therefore, to facilitate the business of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and to strengthen their competitiveness on the market, and I say within the rules Europe allows. The second group, as I was saying, is to strengthen the supervisory measures system in order to combat the tax invasion more effectively, so as to achieve the principle of proportionality and to establish a difference of supervisory practices towards regulated excise bonds compared to those that operate completely outside the law, we have so far not had a clear and loud view. black in the white and large letters prescribed in the law, so on this side a slightly larger maneuvering area with the aim of treating someone who is absolutely illegal on the market and someone who has slightly less violations is different and to speed up all infringements on this side. The second reason for avoiding tax invasion is that the regulation of special control measures on the tobacco harvested, so over the tobacco lists on the market, you have seen media reports about it very often, and the tobacco lists themselves are illegally traded, which is why it is also insufficiently prescribed legislation, so with this, this bill introduces supervision and the part of the illegal so far unregistered business of our operators, but the individuals who do so are not always our citizens, there are also foreign citizens on that side, we need some better control. There is also the regulation of the control over oils or lubes, and it is also seen from practice that there are problems with these goods, there are certain on the system of saying the common market, some countries are a little better, some a little less decorated, I will not speak here for diplomatic reasons where these are a little less arranged but in their markets of certain factories, and even larger factories of those lubes, which are then looking for their market in the whole of the European Union and on this side better supervision of the so-called. Lubricants, oil for oiling is needed, and this is the law we've prescribed. The third group, as I was saying earlier, is also the last reason why we propose these amendments and additions to the law, why we propose them by emergency procedure at an extraordinary session is to comply with the legal gain in the case of, therefore, in the area of control, and for the abuse of marked gas oils, blue diesel and lye oil. As I was saying earlier, the law so far provides for that penalty 10 times for a natural person, 100 times for a legal person. This is, on the principle of legal non-bis and I go is not allowed, European courts show that this is not allowed, so we decided to harmonise this bill in a way that increases the amounts for criminal penalties, so the minimums have been dramatically increased, and in particular the range of fines. The excise duty shall therefore be calculated on the quantities corresponding to the volume of the entire fuel tank, not on the determined quantity, and on what is also a criminal provision, instead of this time 100, it shall therefore be imposed on the obligor himself. the entity caught with such, natural or legal person caught with such fuel in its container to carry out the cleaning of the container itself, to point out the energy sources of course and to clean the container code for that authorised organisation which will also cause a certain cost to it, and also to permanently prove that after returning to its homes, if it is a natural person or if it is a legal person to return to his firm and to the market, we will be sure that the container is properly cleaned. So, just for comparison, 100 containers were previously charged for fines, so now we're introducing from 10 000 kuna to 2 million kunas for the legal person, and now 60 000 kuna is the lower limit. For a natural person the lower limit was 5,000 kuna, now it was 30,000 kuna, and for craftsmen the lower limit was 30,000 kuna, 500 max, now we raise from 60 to a million to a maximum. That's this range I've been talking about, plus I'm saying this punishment that an authorised company has to clean up the container itself. And finally what is important to us from the Ministry of Finance always, if we were mathematically looking at production in 2014 and this reduction of excise amounts for small brewers would have a certain drop in revenues in the state budget. So we gave you, in confidence, exhaustive and good materials in the light of this bill of law, an analysis of the collection of excise goods in both the past and the first six months of this year, but I say purely mathematically if small and medium brewers stayed at the same level of production would have dropped in revenues of 29 million kuna at an annual level, which is slightly less than 5% of total excise duty per beer. But of course we wouldn't be selling this law if we didn't expect these companies to do better, operate better, operate more illegally if you want and expect on this side of it to grow... production, but we also expect an increase in the number of employees, increase in quality in this way, and I, if I can reasonably conclude, wish for all of them today if they are small and medium to come out very quickly to large and strong brewers who can and on, not only on the Croatian but also on the market of European Union countries, in neighbouring countries, to jump faster,... this full excise charge, and to make production and employment as high as possible. I hope you'll forgive me for this foolish remark, at least that's what I'm experiencing. I don't see a lot of smiles, you're probably tired from all day. So I'd like to finish this preliminary presentation and stay open to all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117824	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117825	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister, Director of Customs Administration with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but express great commendation to the customs administration. The law adopted in 2013, entry into the common market of the European Union, a good part of the excise rules, is a common regulation of the European Community where both the legal and the regulations are legal and common, harmonised regulations. The movement of goods is also part of common rules, but minimum excise duties are also defined by these common policies. And what do we see after two years of application? That we can also be satisfied with the efficiency of applying these common rules by the Ministry of Finance Customs Administration, that the simple amount of excise duties is really significant for the needs of the state budget and that we have indeed brought it down mostly to products that are also part of the European Community's common policy, which means alcohol, spirit, electricity as a novelty and, of course, products and oil derivatives. So in those two years it was not easy to monitor the movement of goods, control the movement of goods, it was not easy to apply common legal regulations and, of course, keep sufficient quality control over what was happening in these changes given the far, far larger market that was now to be controlled. We see that from the description of the situation, and I find it very important to commend the customs administration. What is also interesting to praise, that after only two years of application, it is estimated that the system should be upgraded and that simply if we want to have a better entry of excise income, which does not normally belong to entrepreneurs, we need to strengthen supervision. It is also very important to say that we have very clear segments to which the goods apply and that we have before us the harmonisation and with European regulation, as well as Croatian practices, of Croatian problems. But besides what we're seeing? We also see a desire to help the domestic industry, domestic entrepreneurs, and in some ways in this and supervision, but also in the amount of excise fees we help entrepreneurs. So I find it acceptable with all the issues related to alcohol and alcohol consumption to allow domestic brewers to be paid a long-lower excise duty and that this is something that will still reduce the market for large multinationals, and in fact domestic agricultural production, domestic products have a slightly lower price and easier market access. That is why I think it is a good move for a simple reason, because this and most of the European Community countries are also applying it, so it would be simply absurd to allow multinationals to take over the full market in the Republic of Croatia. We also see that, in addition to stronger supervision, stronger measures, the Tax Administration considers it necessary, I apologize to the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance to believe that it is still necessary for the benefit of those who are neat, they have never sinned on regulations and who really need help. So I think that this measure of this warehouse is one measure where when someone gets a permit is a simple quality entrepreneur who respects regulations and that allows it to be easier I would say manipulation of products in the Republic of Croatia, simpler movement of goods across the Republic of Croatia, that it is something that is truly a reward for all those who are estimated to be as good as their performances on these convenient sales when it comes to alcohol, which means that the more quality an entrepreneur who respects regulations, then customs can shorten his procedures and make it possible for me to say easier business on the Croatian market. So that's something that's rare in regulations, we're always going with more surveillance, and I'd say, "I'd say, "I'd like to identify both bad and good," so we're only applying stronger sanctions and stronger supervision to everything. So I think that this approach to the law is quite solid and that we really need to separate quality once and try to reward that quality with simpler procedures that are seen from this part. But at the same time, we have seen that there is an organised chain of entrepreneurs in Europe who loves to escape from paying obligations regardless of whether it is VAT or excise and that it is a common struggle for all those who oversee it regardless of whether customs or tax administrations, because it is simply not just a problem for smaller revenues in the budget, but it is also unfair competition which is then very much damaging to entrepreneurs who are legally operating. And that is why strengthening these control of the movement of goods and simply stopping such entrepreneurs is absolutely necessary with a far stricter regime that is proposed in this law. We also see Croatian specificities in view of the significant leap of excise duty on tobacco that was due to minimum excise duties, regulations and directives of the European Community that we were going into uncontrolled tobacco harvest and that this tobacco appeared increasingly in the markets and illegal sales was simply not able to establish control. And we see that there's such illegality and such unacceptable behavior now we're trying to control with stronger, stricter control of the collected tobacco because in me, I'd say the very beginning of trying to control this illegal trade and put a good part of it under the control of such entrepreneurs. It is very similar to oil oil used in various ways and in various declarations in order to avoid paying a lot of high excise duties when it comes to oil derivatives, so I believe that these are the shortcomings observed these two years, which are high-quality, defined in this legislative proposal for the control and control of tax and customs fraud. So what we may see as a suggestion given the non-compliance of some of our legal sanctions in that part of the fraud on tax relief in the oil products, and we know this blue and green diesel given today the usual practice of courts that do not accept the very high rigorous penalties we have, whether in this legal solution we may also go to retroactively for proceedings that are not completed. Because it is simply always questionable if we change it now we know about the case law that someone will also seek justice through European courts and we will never come to an end. And we know that this puts a good part of the basic assets out of service, whether they're combined, tractors or ships. So just one suggestion, if we've already come to the conclusion that we'll be in harmony with that standard. And since this norm is not negative but positive, perhaps we could retroactively predict a solution not to conduct unnecessary court proceedings and not to confiscate resources for work. Here, with short remarks, I would like to say my praises for the bill, but also for the successful two-year work of Customs, we will accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117826	On behalf of the ORAH Representatives Club Zlatko Tušak is not present, losing the right to debate on this point. Also colleague Cain on behalf of his club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Deputy and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So it is not common for an extraordinary session of the Assembly to discuss the emergency excise duty procedure. The excise duties are a very important segment of the tax sector but not everything is as idyllic in that segment as it seems at first glance and as we have heard here. If we better analyse the data from the reasoning of the bill, several illogicalities are visible. As much as it is income from excise duties, on which excise duty products fall, the revenues from excise duties fall, on which they grow. Interestingly, only 177 thousand kunas were arrived on luxury products in 2014. This may be concluded that luxury products are not sold in Croatia, but it is also necessary to consider what is defined as a luxury product. We have products that are treated with luxury, and do not fall into luxury at all, and we have products that are very luxury are not defined by luxury, and those who define themselves are not luxury. For example, the wedding ring is no luxury but is treated as a luxury. And we have so shamelessly expensive products that are treated as a normal product of broad consumption and it really isn't. And I think we should do a systematic analysis of luxury goods and excise duties on luxury goods. It is also visible in moving for half of 2015 compared to the first half of 2014 where only 36,000 kuna is a excise duty of luxury goods. For example, non-alcoholic beverages are almost 50% excise duty on alcoholic beverages. I think that excise duties achieve many goals and should be achieved, not just economic goals. Because excise duties are also driven by preference and suppress unwantedness. They're quite an instrument to contain unwanted phenomena. I think, in the light of the law, what's least highlighted in the law has been the most potentiated, which is the reduction of excise duty on small brewers. It's like the law, so you get the impression, that first the law was passed because of them. One segment is left behind in the explanation, which can be read that this law is certainly more adapted to the tobacco industry than to these others. And many articles have been changed mostly by adapting to the tobacco industry. And I can't help but get the impression that certain lobbies have an impact on law-making. The Croatian people did not ask when they collected electricity 30%. No one asks him whether it's expensive or appropriate for him or not. And whenever you bring a tax burden to a particular segment of society, then you hear their voice more strongly than the voice of reason, the voice of the profession and the voice of the general good. Many changes have been made in this regard and I will list which. However, here is also mentioned the fight against, and we heard from the deputy minister, illegal trade, we heard and commended the Customs Administration and we are witnessing the illegal trade of tobacco products from the day of the creation of the Croatian state to this day. For 25 years, we have witnessed such aggressive illegal sales at every turn. And nothing is easier than to determine where this product comes from. But it's like when the police come in here and they blow these strikers apart, that's how they treat these illegal salesmen, let's run away so I don't see you, move him, and move him away in five minutes on his own. Tons and tonnes were sold on black in Croatia. How is it possible to smoke cigarettes, tobacco products for black sale? Where did they get it, how did they get in, what channel, which way? And no one can say it's not done, because we're witnessing aggressively every day, I can't get past the Quartic to not offer me that. I've been going through 42 years and they keep doing it. And foreign producers and domestic producers. Then we will also praise those who are in charge, paid not to be. I'll allow it, but I don't agree to do it myself. Therefore, abuse of rights in the movement of excise products is very high, of course. And we can't calmly observe it and be satisfied with the existing state. How is it possible to sell cigarettes without stamps at all? But it's possible. Sometimes I am ashamed to cross the border of Croatia, entering Hercegovina or somewhere else, how much attention is paid to whether someone has a kilo of cheese and a man has a home in both Herzegovina and Croatia and takes away his weight of cheese and cigarettes have been passing for 25 years. And no one's ever been responsible for that. It is not possible to take cigarettes from the factory in such quantities without organised action. And now we are changing Article 26, paragraph 9, where it is defined differently but that mainly the obligation to pay excise duty is no later than 90 days from the day of taking over tobacco stamps. We think it would be quite enough and a reasonable period of 60 days. In that regard, we have also proposed an amendment to this proposal. The HDZ also proposes an amendment to add to Article 13(2) which would allow non-alcoholic beverages producers to also pay excise duty within 60 days of the date of the obligation to charge excise duties. And that is, we submitted it to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce submitted the proposal and the Committee on Finance and Budget, however, no such proposal was accepted. They explained and in this regard we explained in this regard the situation of the manufacturing sector of alcoholic beverages, that production in the last decade dropped 22%, that exports were only in 2014. 17% lower, that in 2014 compared to 2013, dropped production 9% and that it is acceptable to allow them 60 days of payment from the acquisition of stamps. Article 16 is set out in Article 43(4) of the word "in the moment" is replaced by the words "after". And that article says that after receiving excise goods, immediately, at the time of download, they are paid immediately. Here after the takeover. That word isn't clear enough afterwards. What's that deadline after? After the takeover, it could be five minutes, it could be five days, and it could be a little longer. I don't think it's a good time after. It may not have been a good time, but it should certainly be more clearly defined. Article 16(4) is amended as set out in subparagraph 2 of the words "in a moment" are replaced by the words "after", here. This amendment, and what's missed, seems to me so far, goes to everyone in order for this law to allow what has been banned from trading tobacco products, and this is a sale to be allowed in markets and fairs. What has been illegal so far is now going to be legalized by this law. Then why not the pharmacy? I'm sure this idea didn't come out of the circles of those directly related to the tobacco industry. And there was a reason why it was not allowed at markets and fairs and nothing was justified to change that it was allowed to sell at markets and fairs. Here's a really minor grudge, article 25 is called little independent brewers, so why aren't they just little brewers? What does an independent brewery mean? It is not an independent representative. Well, it's not somebody's property, it's not connected, but it's small, and then it's determined if it is, it doesn't have to be called independent, because it can't be independent. I mean, that term isn't appropriate at all. The brewery can't be independent. I think it's one technical objection that it's unnecessary to invent new categories. Here's if, regardless of what the law is at an unforeseen time by emergency procedure, we're abstentioned HDZ is abstention to the law, but if you think about and you accept our amendments then we'll also consider adopting such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117828	Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117829	I would just like to replicate to my colleague Maric about luxury products and his discussion of luxury products. Luxury products are not part of harmonisation within the European community, and that means total freedom is all countries. The analysis of the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance found that most of the luxury products, especially the products of gold, silver, were not taxed as luxury products in our nearest neighbouring countries of Slovenia, Italy, Hungary. And that was the reason that if we do not want to harm our Filipino production then we simply have to cancel such excise duties so that the citizens of Croatia do not go free to buy luxury products in our neighbouring countries and cities. So most of the reason the excise duty on the basis of luxury products is to change the rate and completely eliminate the rate on luxury products. Thus, the former policy of taxing luxury products and part of social policy, which means that the richer one takes more, is now impossible if such a tax policy is not harmonised in the European community as well. And that was the reason for a complete policy change just so that we don't destroy domestic production, and what times and domestic trade because why to collect perfumes and buy the rest in neighbouring countries where there is no such tax and then destroy domestic trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117830	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117831	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, I agree with much of it, but it is also a good thing it is not a harmonised category. Well, we are ahead if we can decide for ourselves and make and assess what is in the interest of Croatia and what is in the interest of some others. The truth is that sometimes, but only in a competitive market will customers go abroad to buy a particular product if there is no excise duty or lower excise duty than domestic. But we are a low competitive market and we do not participate in production in most luxury products at all. What do we make of luxury products? Let's do an analysis, no matter what we produce. The trade in Croatia dictates almost everything, including production. And sometimes when someone and the products can't sell it in... I think a systematic analysis of luxury products and treatment of luxury products is needed and how to charge excise products with excise duties. I'm not saying it's all bad, but we need an analysis to make and correct and direct how to stimulate possibly domestic production, not foreign production. Imports finance foreign jobs, manufacturing and exporting domestic jobs, but I fear that sometimes we do not charge our excise duty on manufactured luxury goods abroad, rather than in Croatia. And you'll agree to hope there are such products and not a little. Even in most of the luxury goods, we're not competitive at all because we don't produce, and we didn't tax it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117832	On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117833	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In full effect of the Excise Tax Act on 1 July 2013, at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership, the Croatian excise and legal system is fully in line with the requirements of the legal property of the EU and the good practice of other Member States. A successful transition to the business of economic operators in... procedures within the single European market has been allowed, thus achieving the stability of the Croatian excise system. The overall business process of collecting excise duties is fully modernised and electronically supported both in relation to the segment of the monitoring of the movement of excise products and in relation to the process of establishing and charging excise duties by the introduction of the e-consumption system or by the electronic submission of excise forms and special tax forms, thus fully implementing migration in the electronic way of communication of the economic operator with the tax authority. Excise taxation of natural gas, electricity and coal and coke in amounts prescribed as mandatory minimum excise duty and, of course, by introducing a distinction in the level of excise duty between business and not the commercial use of natural gas for heating, and electricity. Viewing only 2014 and reaching the revenues of the state budget in the Republic of Croatia... taxes amount to almost $12.9 billion, and from that alone amounts to 8.3 billion. The largest share refers to energy and tobacco products, and for comparison with 2015 already today the revenues are 8.9 billion kuna. We can also say that it is a law that has introduced significant changes and major progress in modernising the tax system, but there is still room for further normation of some important relations in the field of tax law regulation. Therefore, these amendments and additions are complemented by the excise system and are brought into line with the highest standards and good practice of the Member States of the European Union, especially in relation to the harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of energy control, the introduction of new excise institutes, the introduction of a legal framework for the implementation and effective mechanisms to combat tax fraud, given that certain risk areas and the introduction of reduced rates of excise duties for independent small brewers are established. Here I will specifically refer to the new tax institute that is being introduced to facilitate tax burdens, which specifically refers to the introduction of reduced rates, or the level of excise duties for small brewers. Although small and independent, according to the brewery law in Croatia, one 10% of Croatia's economy is important for its market share. Especially because of the fact that based on the trend of opening new and small micro brewers which opened 4 new ones in 2014 it is obvious that there is room for increasing beer supply in Croatia. Small brewers are owned by Croatian citizens, which means that all profits remain in Croatia and is a major incentive for the Croatian economy. Also an example of good practice are Vukovar, Osijek, Daruvar, Buzet and Pazarište, which are in line in economically weaker active parts of Croatia. These brewers bind themselves to other economic operators from their region and therefore it is important to enable them to have normal operating conditions so that they can continue to operate in a sustainable manner, thereby hiring locals, or to protect themselves from the prevailing market impact of large brewers. Small brewers no longer have the opportunity to fight on the market with low retail prices of products imposed by large brewers. The primary reasons are the high cost of input raw materials in production and excise duties, which in the structure of the sales price of the product in certain breweries account for almost a third of the shares. The recommendation of the European Union Directive 92/83/EEC states that a differentiated rate of excise duty may be applied for production below 200 thousand hectolitres per year. Most European Union countries use a differentiated rate of excise duty to boost the development of competitiveness and the direct survival and sustainability of business and the employment of smaller brewers on the market. In fact, reducing excise duties would increase competitiveness and simultaneously halt negative trends by increasing beer production and increasing employment. It would also increase the consumption of domestic beer for Croatian consumers, which is expected to replace the reduced amount of excise duties that would be differentiated by this law. The survival and sustainable business of smaller brewers would ensure revenues in the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government through income and profit taxes, the tax contribution. And on the expenditure side of the budget, it would certainly be an impact on the reduction of the need for certain social transfers due to the expected increase in local employment in which small and medium brewers are currently active. It should also be pointed out that the Competition Protection Agency has made an insight into all relevant European Union directives and rules governing the area of excise duties. According to the information the agency has at its disposal... excise duty in the European Union depends on different criteria in certain countries and differs depending, for example, on the extract of sweetener, type... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or the share of alcohol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most EU excise duty countries, part of the excise duty, determines between themselves and the size of the brewery. Only a small number of countries such as Cyprus, Italy, Norway, Spain and Sweden do not determine excise duties at a reduced rate. It is important from all of this to confirm in the Croatian Parliament this proposal to amend the law which will also apply the excise duty on beer, which will create favourable conditions in which small and independent brewers in Croatia will finally be able to operate under the same conditions as small and independent brewers in the rest of Europe. The SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117834	On behalf of Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic's proposal, the final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117835	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So really very briefly, here we are during the debate we are conducting intensive consultations, which is what anyone wanted to say through the amendment and what would be better done and therefore here in this final word I thank and commend all clubs, primarily thanking all those who have praised the work of the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance as a whole. I think there's a common interest and good interest in that system of monitoring illegal trade and high... i.e. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The goods are always interesting to all kinds of smugglers to make as much as possible, as much as possible, make it as best and make it as efficient as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I recognize the real effort of all clubs. I'm happy to accept the commendation, and I didn't want to say a lot in the opening word and you have in the materials about what we've improved, you have the numbers that are improving, that are growing. And of course through the efficiency of the customs administration. But I'm saying, you can always do better and unfortunately there's probably those petty illegal stores that we all witness when we're in the markets and when we hear somewhere quiet "cigarettes, cigarettes" but then effective surveillance of it is a little harder to get to it. But if there are still these, a little fellow Maric was saying that, quite effectively as if they were going through a really big boot, I hope it wasn't there. I believe that there is no such thing, I believe that the Customs Administration is doing everything possible to prevent it from being with as tighter borders and Schengen limits as we prepare for and which we strengthen I believe there is no such phenomenon. If by any chance there are any, www.carina.hr reporting illegal activity www.mfin.hr reporting illegal activities., help everyone, here’s the public even though I do not believe that in large numbers he is watching this debate but whoever knows, will and may report any irregularities. We'll do anything to make things better. Well, even through our internal surveillance, we've been witnessing over the past few years that we don't... But we've also caught some of our internal employees in certain favors of saying illegal merchants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where we're going to continue our efforts, and here, and I'm calling you all if you can help us do it better. Mr. Linic said himself on the common market of the European Union, we have abolished practically that tax and these small revenues from it are the remains of the former times. Luxury product, name only speaks, Croatia is a small country, I think the furthest point is 50-60 km from another country. Therefore, consumption would move somewhere else. If spending moves somewhere else, then we don't even have a trade margin, we don't have a VAT, we don't even have the contributions we have from the traders themselves. So we estimate that such goods have long ago been evaluated by you when you passed that law and I along with you, about moving excise duties, so that something like that doesn't pay off on our luxury products because the consequences are greater. ... the economy, the socialist economy, the former, war-based Croatian economy in the 1990s made sense, the entry into the European Union did not have, and therefore the tax on luxury products was abolished. I don't know how my colleague Maric pulled the theory that we're enjoying the tobacco lobby by better, better, better control of trade and availability with the tobacco leaf, which has not been the case so far. So, indirectly, if we stop it illegally, the gray market with the raw material itself that comes to the final production, and yet that tobacco leaf when it's processed and consumed, not to say this other word, and we don't have excise duty on it, so if we're more efficient then the legal sale of cigarettes will be better and more efficient, the legal charge of excise duties will be better and more efficient. The promotions of tobacco-selling factories will be somewhat larger, indirectly yes, but that's the goal of suppressing the gray economy so that I don't see a good guess on that side. About these deadlines, here we are, and now we're talking in the benches, and we're going to think about it one more time. So in the process of passing this law and, of course, on a daily basis, we analyze excise incomes and expenditures,... that we are on a daily basis and so I dare say that word to lobbying and tobacco industry and the liquor industry and, of course, everyone wants to improve their position on the market and they want shorter deadlines. longer payment deadlines if this is certainly possible, but there are certain needs and Croatian budgets and it is not easy to move these deadlines 30 days ahead, facilitate the alcohol industry. The question is the collection cycles are not the same in the tobacco industry and in the energy industry and in the alcohol industry, but we estimate that the deadline that we have proposed in this law is sufficient. Here, from the post of Deputy Minister, I can say that until the vote I believe on Friday we will reconsider and see if any of the amendments can be accepted by my concern about the liquidity of the state budget on the one hand. I wouldn't want to spread too much on that subject. We had one debate here, so if I'm not mistaken, we've got a billion left, the director, a billion total, and only 500-600 million of us have left the excise duty in these processes until he comes into bankruptcy. If we move the billing deadlines maybe some other subject, I'm not talking about this right now so we don't get it wrong, it's easier for us to fail, then the effects on the collection itself are something more difficult. So it's one of the arguments with this liquidity budget and against liquidity, why not possibly accept this amendment but we'll try again as best we can and see if the amendment is well explained in front of the Chamber of Commerce and see if we can help. Last and not least, perhaps even least important, but let me mention it anyway. These independent little brewers it's a literal translation of English termology independent small production, so we translated it, it also sounded a little bit unnecessarily unnecessary to me, but that's how it is in English translation, and in fact the law requires that they be independent of some of the big ones that they're possibly not some kind of daughter or other kind of related society, so here's the term here in your law. Thank you very much, thank you again for supporting the work of the Ministry of Finance Customs Department. In this area, I don't know that we can have some political considerations. The income from excise products is a significant revenue in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for all the needs we need, from culture, science, sports, that I do not keep counting. Therefore, any rise in efficiency in this area allows for the better and more efficient functioning of all these sectors and on this side I believe that this law will get your support because it is a step forward, a small step forward but a step forward in that field. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117836	Col. Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117837	Just so we don't get the wrong impression, I'd like to support the deputy minister's debate that says there's no favor for the customs administration towards the tobacco industry. I think the biggest blow to the tobacco industry came precisely because of the change in the stamp accounting system when simply by piling up the supply of tobacco stamps, the tobacco industry sought to increase its revenues with old excise duties. In order not to use foreign words, the customs administration simply changed the method of accounting and found that any change in excise duties required the tobacco industry to carry out complete inventory, to calculate new excise duties, and now, even on supplies of old stamps, new excise duties are collected. It was one of the strongest strokes on the tobacco industry, regardless of whether domestic or foreign because it was simply a change seems to me to be a system over 30 years old and it just shows that it is very much monitoring the behavior of every entrepreneur and that their manipulation and illegality is being prevented and so much so that we understand there is no affection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117838	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117839	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you have said that it is indirectly pleasing to the tobacco industry because it is now possible to sell at markets, fairs, etc., but this is also good because we will increase sales, production will increase. If the aim is to increase the production of tobacco products, then let's not just limit ourselves to markets, fairs. Let's let that happen at traffic lights, along the highways, schools, kindergartens, pharmacyes, and we'll have more selling places and we'll sell tobacco products even more. And as for the Customs Administration, I haven't said a word, nor do I think the Customs Administration favors the tobacco industry. The tobacco industry has been shown and confirmed. The most favourable was among the political elites and there are thousands of evidence for it, and one now, I mentioned gas stations. I recently insisted on a gas station that I write in the complaint book to remove a price list of cigarettes that you can't pay the bill because it's right in front of your eyes and your nose. Advertise. You can't enter a complaint book, and you can't take a picture and report it to someone. No, it's been two years on every gas station I've been on. You want me to tell you what gas stations they're holding this on? You want to pay the gas bill and I have to read cigarettes and what the price of cigarettes is. It's not a commercial. So how does that terror end up anymore? My kid can't buy chocolate so he doesn't watch the kind of cigarettes. I don't want my child to see a cigarette in his life, let alone smoke it because it's evil, and the commercial is forbidden, and by no means, there is no institution that will eliminate it. I'll tell you now what gas station.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117840	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117841	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. To tell me, Mr. Marić, I will immediately forward the email to the Minister of Health because under the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products, the Health Ministry's inspection is exactly what prevents it and we will immediately see what and how we can do if it is a systematic violation of the law and if it is a chain. I believe that colleagues from the Ministry of Health will prevent it, because it is a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. The Health Ministry's competent inspection is doing it that way and as far as I know, they're doing it pretty zealously. Here I was surprised I didn't see when I was fueling, so tell me if it's some kind of chain. If it's especially about a chain, we'll make some quality action and we'll round them up in our pocket. I don't know how much of a punishment they're looking at. I'm saying the law is from the Ministry of Health, but we'll see. Let's go, though. You know that I often speak a lot of laws in the Republic of Croatia but the problem is their implementation. As for the implementation that, just last year, 24 tons of cut tobacco, illegally cut tobacco without stamps was caught. Now you multiply those 24 tons by these numbers is not a negligible number on one side. On the other hand, we haven't caught everything. We certainly haven't caught everything. I won't even try to calculate how much we've caught, but obviously that market exists. The assumption that we cut it is better quality and better control of the tobacco list itself. He spoke of it as a former finance minister. So we need a little power and let's start by saying that, and then we'll cut the whole story a lot more efficiently. As for trade in the markets themselves, so legal trade is what objects they are. So nothing is possible, so under the table, but in the legal facilities, the stores that are on the market, the shops. For example, the Konzum shop at the market why it does not sell and is located in the market or at meetings, at large fairs. So it's a legal salesman. Let's say in Knin at a concert why don't we sell cigarettes if he's legally respecting it. I hope you'll forgive me for this 21 seconds I've gone too far, but I believe in Mr. Maric in detail and quality and explained to the microphone why these amendments to the law. Thank you very much, and I apologize again in 33 seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117842	By the time I close, you'll continue the conversation. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Comrades and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much. Good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117843	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 895. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by IDS Representatives' Club, Independent Representative Furio Radin, HDZ Representatives' Club and Honored Representative Goran Maric. Igor Radjenovic, deputy minister. Please, dear colleague Radjenovic, let's go in order. IDS Representatives' Club and Independent Representative Furio Radin, Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117844	Amendment No. 1 The IDS and Independent Representative Radin Club is not accepted. In fact, the general principle of the Excise Act is that it is in a unique way to regulate the period of payment of the resulting excise duty on all excise taxpayers regardless of which category of excise products it is concerned. This principle comes from the rule that the period of payment of the tax liability is linked to a type of tax form rather than to a particular type of taxation subject to that tax form. In this sense, the current law solution is consistent, we believe that it is consistent and therefore cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117845	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117846	Well, here's just this amendment, we actually wanted to help maintain business and increase consumer competitiveness, so please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117847	Thank you, dear colleague Sponza. We will vote on the amendment of a club of representatives that the government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 32 for, 3 abstentions and 70 votes against. We're going to an amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117848	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is almost identical to this amendment, the only thing that includes beer, but let me just supplement it. Therefore, the argument applies as to the first, and the only addition related to the reasons therefore to the first excise duty amendment applies to all market participants and thus to import drinks and does not raise competition in relation to domestic producers compared to others. Therefore, they would have had no effect on that side. The effect would be the only shift in liquidity for the state budget, so I say we don't accept any of the other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117849	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment, an indication? Nothing? The HDZ Club? Are you asking for a vote? So say it, enough. Please vote on the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 29 votes in favour, no abstentions and 73 votes against. We move on to the amendment of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117850	Amendment No. We also do not accept the 3 respected representative Marić with the reason that the time-limit payment of excise duty for excise duty holders of tobacco processing is the same as for other excise taxpayers, i.e. 30 days from the date of issue of the excise duty. In view of the fact that the fiscal marking system is additionally imposed on these other bonds and the obligation for the Customs Administration to expire at the latest within 60 days and, as a result of the date of receipt of the delivery stamps, the daily consumption of the stamps shall be made and the excise duty shall be incurred, and shall also be paid within 30 days. In practice, this means that, in any case, no later than 90 days, it is necessary to pay the excise duty from the date on which the stamps are taken over. By cutting that deadline, as proposed by the amendment of the Member States, it would not be possible to assess the daily consumption of stamps as justified and necessary since, therefore, during that period of 60 days in practice, from the date of receipt of the stamps, manufacturers could return those neutrino stamps to the customs administration with the additional administration of both the customs administration and the customs administration themselves and all of this would be without effect on the increase in income dynamics and therefore cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117851	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117852	Thank you very much. It should be understood that not all sectors are in the same, in the same circumstances. This is about a sector that operates under circumstances that didn't even have the most popular socialist giants in the darkest communist days. This is about a sector that doesn't know what it means not to charge, a sector that doesn't mean the market. Find me an entrepreneur or a market participant who's negotiating with that sector? There are no negotiations with them, they don't know what it means to talk about the price, which means to talk about payment deadlines, which means to talk about payment insurance, they don't know what a jury account doesn't have at least 100 million kunas on it, they've never charged without having only afterwards paid. You approve of the 90-day maximum time limit for those who have paid out of interest on savings by giving the most beloved and most precious national company. Did you say yesterday and your associate ask them if they agreed to cut, did you Croatian people ask if they agreed to raise 30% of electricity, 30% of gas, to increase VAT? And you tell us who decides about this 90 or 60 days? Us or them? You tell us they decide. You listen, you don't listen to what the people think, but you listen to what the monopoly says. And I demand a vote to see who still wants to please those who have enjoyed a monopolies bath for 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-08-0.u117853	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Goran Maric, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. 35 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 67 votes against. We've exhausted the list of amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 97 votes are in favour of, 6 abstentions and nothing against the law adopted by P.Z.E.BR.895 in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue at the plenary session of the 19th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament with a set agenda. It's four. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? What?
