ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102078	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we continue with: - Report on HRT's business for 2013; Report was delivered by the head director of HRT on the basis of Article 19. The law on Croatian broadcasting. You've received the materials. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Since there has been a post-harmonisation of the cubes to bring together the debate on: - Report on the business of HRT for 2013 - The report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of HRT for 2013. It's agreed that on behalf of the clubs, club representatives speak for 25 minutes. And now we're going back to the debate. I ask the head director of HRT to submit an introductory explanation. Mr. Goran Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102080	Dear representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for your invitation and opportunity to be introduced into the 2013 HRT Business Report. Before I comment on this report, please allow me briefly to remind you that this report on the business of Croatian Radio Television for 2013 was submitted to you after the previously completed procedures for the verification of the data necessary for this report, the Supervisory Board accepted this report in July 2014 and subsequently sent this report to the Croatian Parliament for consideration. Before we sent this report he passed regular procedures, verifications, financial reports, and verifications included the submission of the final account of Croatian Radio Television. This report was subject to an audit, a commercial audit of an independent auditor and only after these conditions had been met have the Director-General sent this report to the Supervisory Board and requested agreement to report to the Croatian Assembly on it. Let me also draw attention to the fact that this text of the report follows the legal obligations of Croatian broadcasting and is basically structured from two key parts. One is the report from the implementation of the programme of the organisation of the Croatian radio and all its organisational components and in the second part is the report on the implementation of the financial plan, i.e. the financial report of the Croatian Television. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that this report is the first report that I submit to the Croatian Parliament after the first year of my term of office as director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television, and I will follow the logic of the work programme that I have proposed to the Croatian Assembly in the appointment of director-in-chief. My first priority in the implementation of the Croatian Radio Television Programme for 2013 was to consolidate the financial situation of Croatian Radio Television. I found the finances in considerable problems burdened with a number of commitments that were not carried out in earlier periods, which were accumulated almost the same as the total income of Croatian broadcasters in a year and a particularly delicate segment of finance was a solution to the performance to which the Ministry of Finance obtained the law after the completion of the second-degree hearing at the trade court of 377 million kuna. And this solution on the performance and possibility of realisation and enforcement threatened at that time and the collapse of Croatian radio television's finances, possible blocking of his work, and consequently possible and the bankruptcy of Croatian radio television. The accumulated unfulfilled obligations of Croatian broadcasters also reached a very high amount of 800 million kuna independently of this request by the Ministry of Finance so that the liquidity and operational business of Croatian broadcasters came into a very difficult situation to meet their regular obligations both towards employees and Croatian broadcasters. I want to inform you that these two critical situations have been successfully resolved. First of all, thanks to the willingness and will of the competent authorities and individuals in the responsible bodies of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration, Croatian broadcasting has successfully reached a settlement, outside the court settlement with the Ministry of Finance on the restructuring or way of resolving this tax debt on the details of the solution. You have the information in the report itself. I would just briefly say that we have found an appropriate legal solution to adjudicate this claim in such a way that Croatian broadcasting has left part of its property for which it did not have a strategic need of 74 million kuna and the rest of the debt has been settled by enrolling it in the core capital of Croatian broadcasting as a public institution. Such a solution enabled the unblocking of the financial operational functions of Croatian broadcasting and the start of a recovery that allowed the situation taken over by the end of 2013 from earlier years and which, as you know for 2012 ended with operational losses of slightly less than 30 million kuna and continued negative business in the previous 7 years, allowed Croatia's broadcasting to end financially with a positive result, with a registered profit of slightly more than 42 million kuna and thus emerges from a very serious and unfavourable financial situation. In addition to, of course, settlements with the Ministry of Finance, a very strict internal policy of saving supervision and control and adjudicating all those costs that were not in the function of the primary activity of the HRT enabled adequate savings and achievement of such operational profits. This gain will be recorded in our books in the function of actuating the previous obligations of HRT and accumulated debts from the previous period so that hopefully in the coming years we will be able to gradually resolve these debts from the previous period that are currently around 700 million kuna. The second situation I dealt with and dedicated to her in 2013 was the whole change in the way the work and activities of HRT were organised. I have joined a thorough and comprehensive organisational reconstruction, primarily aimed at the future strategic goals of HRT, and to enable it to develop as a modern European multimedia organisation, and have completed a traditional organisation on media silos of radio, television, music production and operational operations, and have replaced it with an appropriate organisation that has been focused on the performance of its programming functions, operational, production tasks, technological infrastructure and development and better quality and direct management of its business functions. This comprehensive organisational reconstruction is also possible through new acts, the adoption of the new Statute of the HRT and the consent given by this Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this Statute, and I thank you for that. The reconstruction was carried out successfully during the first two quarters of 2013. All internal HRT acts have been adapted to new structures, and all jobs, positions and functions have experienced their appropriate administrative changes and changes in a successful manner so that no moment, no second, HRT has stopped or been disabled or disabled in fulfilling its regular business and programming obligations. This radical and comprehensive reconstruction has led HRT to rationalise and address the issue of HRT management in a better way. The number of executive jobs has been reduced by a third, and all management posts have been declared by the internal acts of the mandated posts, public tenders have been held behind them to allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to compete and receive the appropriate opportunity to take over one of these management jobs. Although we intended to carry out these competitions in order to attract and get the attention of all available professionals in the Republic of Croatia we only partly managed to attract one number of external experts to the right jobs and I can say this time that although we had this intention we did not fully succeed. Obviously, HRT is not attractive enough and interesting employer and relatively few external quality experts have appeared in these competitions. Just some of them, and I'm glad about that, they got a chance and took on new CROMAC duties. After the election of the new leadership, somewhere by the end of May, the new leadership has devoted itself to making our Development Strategy until 2018 and the first legal obligation that HRT has taken over the new Law on HRT, which is the development of a restructuring programme. The restructuring programme was completed by the end of July 2013 and after the verification by the Supervisory Board was sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which also accepted it and the Croatian HRT, its leadership started to implement this restructuring programme which is now at a high stage of operational realization on today. This restructuring programme was conceived, imagined and its objectives related to the so-called "the" so-called "restructuring programme". an active restructuring model. This means combining relevant rationalisations, the way HRT manages its costs, and at the same time the requirement to enable appropriate new investments in modern infrastructure and to achieve the goals of future media and technological development in order to catch the already derelict or lagging rhythm of the continued development of a modern public electronic media as is necessary and needed in public space in Europe today in the context of European cultural policy. I am pleased at this time that I can confirm to you that the successful implementation of the restructuring programme has not only led to these mentioned financial results but that we have successfully prepared the implementation of a whole series of operational tasks related to our business, of which, of course, is a key combination of reduction of operating costs, rationalisation and increased efficiency of our work. In this report you can already see that Croatian radio television has significantly reduced its operating costs, while at the same time able to produce more content, and we believe more quality content than in previous periods, thus bringing its efficiency to comparison with other quality or best quality European broadcasters. In addition to the implementation of the restructuring programme, the objective is to achieve a reduction in labour costs on HRT. Our financial calculations show that Croatian radiotelevision could not stand the number of permanent employees of 3400 employees as recorded in 2012, and that during the time and until the end of this restructuring period Croatian broadcasting must reduce the number of employees to 2700 employees in order to achieve sustainable business and this cost of work, i.e. the way in which the work properly pays enables and satisfy all its basic programming functions, enables its continuous technological and business development and achieves that level of sustainability of its business, which its founder and its obligations are legal and contractual. The programme content has not changed significantly since 2013. Most of the year was implemented in this situation of financial consolidation and organisational reconstruction, so that the new editors-in-chief, or editorial composition, could take over the management of software content only about half of 2013 and focus primarily on the strategic objectives of programme development and at the same time meeting all the legal but contractual obligations of Croatian broadcasting under the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At your attention, the Programme Council, which oversees the programming functions of Croatian RadioTelevision, concluded for 2013 that Croatian RadioTelevision has accomplished all its programming tasks established by law and contract, although they have had a number of critical remarks in the quality and manner in which these obligations have been carried out. I can confirm that our programming obligations are still the subject of our daily concerns. We believe that they are in the way they are established in the law and contract of this moment indeed a great demand for Croatian broadcasting. Fulfilling all of them is very demanding and we are working within our existing financial and material opportunities to carry out them properly. I am very pleased that at the same time we managed to run at the same cost of two new television channels. So HRT or HTV 3 and HTV 4 as new software units. They stabilised in 2013 and recognized in the Croatian public as specialized television channels designed for culture and science in the case of HTV 3 and the information channel, which simultaneously has a whole series of other obligations besides other and television channels for international audiences that are broadcast via satellites and relevant communication conditions across the world. Both channels received their main editors, and they began to be properly structured as well as with the other two television and 12 radio channels. And I can confirm that those in the overall programming structure have lived in a quality way, but we could not provide material, technological and humane conditions for their development in 2013. I believe that in the meantime they achieved results in 2014. Confirmation that we were focused on the right goals when it came to it. And finally allow me to recapitulate such a total positive but still very challenging conditions of operation and organisation of Croatian broadcasting in the fulfillment of its law and contract of defined obligations are a great test for all of us who work or manage Croatian radiotelevision. I am personally grateful to all Croatian broadcasters, my co-workers, direct associates for making a huge effort, the effort to achieve these results for 2013 in very unpleasant circumstances of our actions and to lay the proper foundations for those achievements that I believe we are already focused on in 2014 and 2015. At the same time, I would also like to thank the supervisory authorities, the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television and the Programme Council for monitoring and monitoring our work, for the appropriate cooperation that has helped Croatian broadcasting achieve its objectives. I would, of course, like this cooperation to be better, but you can also judge it from the report of the especially Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Here, Madam Vice President, allow me to finish my opening address, to thank you once again for your trust and for the opportunity to address these words and to invite you to consider and accept this report on business in an appropriate critical manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102081	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102082	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, Mr. Radman, in your 2013 report, you boasted of the benefits of 41.6 million kuna, which is due to a restrictive cost policy and savings made which actually happened in this report that we read for the first time in 5 years. But you said you'd let me guess you sold some of the property to settle the debt. Well, I'm curious about who and what real estate it was. You've saved up on the cost of producing the program. What program? The programme for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and you know that HRT is required according to the programme principles and in the Law on HRT is obliged to produce and publish programmes related to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as to produce programmes related to the public in the Republic of Croatia on the life and functioning of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. You were also present on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia when we made a unanimous decision to, say, switch the "View From the Border" to the 1st Croatian programme, which didn't actually happen. What exactly happened? You have actually destroyed correspondence in BiH, not only in BiH but also in Serbia and Hungary, but in BiH in particular, and have trained some video journalists who are actually reporting from BiH as if it were not our national interest for Croats in BiH. And then it looks like they're reporting from a funeral or from a wedding. That's why it was ugly and sad to see, say, President of the Parliament of Mr. Joseph Lek making statements from Posavina holding a microphone alone to a journalist asking him a question that was definitely not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102083	Thank you, dear fellow, for your time. Mr. Radman, you can respond in two minutes. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102084	From here, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102085	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102086	I appreciate the question. So, the list of properties that are assigned through the Tax Debt settlement agreement is part of this HRT Business Report, you have them very taxingly listed here. So it's a total asset if I'm not mistaken for 74 million kunas. In the list of these properties are two buildings in Dežmanovo Street in Zagreb, one barracks on Biankini Street in Zagreb, one garage on Savica used by HRT as its technological facility. There is also an unfinished construction facility in the town of Varazdin, which was started with the intention of building it in the function of the regional broadcasting centre. And there is a villa, Villa Cingrija in Dubrovnik, which was used by HRT after the city of Dubrovnik for its TV center in Dubrovnik. So no other property was covered by this agreement and all these properties were the moment the signed agreement was submitted to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia took over through the State Property Management Office and at the moment the Republic of Croatia and the owner of these properties, HRT has no jurisdiction over them. As for Croats outside Croatia, we had a debate on this, I understand the concern and sensitivity of the topic. Specific to the Croats in BiH, as you know in the overall structure of our correspondence abroad, we kept two correspondents in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102087	Thank you very much. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102088	Dear Director already this morning driving to the Croatian Parliament can be heard news from HR where your statements take half the time. No one else in this annex is asked about opinion or conflict of opinion but you, on television, where you are the principal director of a public institution and a public good in which there is no parallel example in any public enterprise, public goods owned by the Republic of Croatia where one man has such powers. Isn't it a little strange for you, programically speaking, from the aspect of the public interest that you only contribute to your statement on the morning when you come to the Croatian Parliament to submit your report? The public opinion of the business you have brought us here with a very calm tone is reflected in more than 400 articles in Croatian newspapers when you just look at the headlines then you know what the perception of the public is, so people who pay the subscription to HRT about what you bring to us today. That's the main and objective indicator of what the HRT actually is. So, with the changed Law on HRT, which we always say gave Pharaoh's powers to the principal, which led us to fall on a scale of media freedoms in Europe with an explicit indication of why we are falling, precisely because of this changed law, then we went and changed the Statute of the HRT that gave additional authority to the principal, increased the financial limit that must require an opinion on this. Mr. Chief Director, what we heard on Croatian Radio this morning is contrary to what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102089	Thank you. Time, buddy. The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102090	Dear Representative Mesic, thank you for listening to Croatian Radio. I think it is a very valuable and quality media which is of the high trust of the Croatian public and the evaluation of the editors of the Croatian Radio about what will be their jurisdiction in the Croatian Radio programmes. As you know by law and in practice the head of HRT not only has no authority but it does nothing to affect software content. My concern as CEO is to make sure HRT meets its legal and programming obligations. I have the appropriate powers to intervene in the management and editorial structure when I estimate that illegality is taking place or that legal and contractual obligations are not respected, but I do not have any authority to decide or co-determine on software content. When it comes to the so-called. With the Pharaoh's powers, let me correct your claim, nothing has happened in statutes that would change the powers that the chairman of the administration had in earlier or earlier law or under the former Statute of the HRT, so the Statute reserves all the powers of the Director-General, who, including the financial limit, are therefore the authority of the President of the Administration or the Director-General to make decisions on his own. I think that in practice this solution has come to life, so it's a good assessment and it's not critical, nor has HRT come to a standstill in any way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102091	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102092	Thank you. What I really wanted to tell you and invite you to try to think about again, and it was that decision to shut down or reduce those 11 Croatian television correspondence because these correspondence meant for many small environments, in fact, the transfer of life. When you cut these correspondences to possibly one man, that one man who works must first be a man, a man, must be strong enough to carry a camera, must drive, must mount, film, and in fact these correspondences have been brought into an almost impossible situation. I do not believe that these correspondence are such a great cost of the work and business of HRT, and their role in the lives of these small local communities in which they participated as a contribution to the public, the general presence of these environments in public space is immensely large. And I'm sure you didn't save a lot of money with that decision, and in fact, a lot of damage has been done to those communities in which, which have been mutilated, in fact, their availability to public space has been significantly mutilated and reduced by actually reducing the number of people in those correspondence to any one or two, I don't know how many of them are left. Because he says again that one man who's left must be holy then. Practically, I can't work for women anymore, that man has to wear a camera, he has to record, he has to be a journalist, an editor, a driver, and everything. I mean, these correspondences have been brought into a very difficult and impossible situation. And I'd like to invite you if you could reconsider that decision again and see that these correspondence is actually re-enhancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102093	The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102094	I thank you for your question. Let me just briefly explain that we have implemented the restructuring of correspondence as part of the complete restructuring of HRT with the aim of achieving the relevant development objectives. So, at the same time, we wanted to reduce operational costs and increase the efficiency of our correspondence work. The so-called The small correspondence of 11 of them at the time when we started their restructuring was 51 employees, of these 51 employees were only 12 journalists and a total of 11 cameras they used, were exclusively Croatian TV correspondence and did not work for Croatian radio or for the internet and teletext functions of HRT. These changes allowed a number of skilled journalists who were also trained for these jobs and tasks to take over all those functions that once had those 11 correspondence. Today we have in the correspondence network, so in this category 30 journalists with 30 cameras, 30 microphones, 30 cameras, trained to service the entire network with their work. The number of contributions they make to the product is more than the number of contributions previously produced by our 11 correspondents, while at the same time almost half the costs of their work have been reduced even though their direct salaries have been increased. So it's a developmental restructuring. We are satisfied by the realization of this project, we believe that we have achieved the right goals, we are aware of all the temptations that our colleagues on the ground right now have that some technical, organisational, infrastructure handicaps such a way of working can be fully met but we do not see that we will give up or we would not want to give up on these goals. We expect by the end of this year that these objectives will be fully achieved according to our internal plans. I'm not sure, I think 50% of the total correspondents are women right now and they're all former employees, 51 of them are still HRT employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102095	Thank you very much. Time. Please blend in within two minutes. Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102096	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Director, you were contradictory in what you read. Of course, it's been a long time since you might have written it, until today when you have to interpret it. First of all, you said that the restructuring process was completed and then you said that in the restructuring process an additional reduction in the number of employees is expected, which means that the restructuring process is not completed. The same way you said you were able to get the public service back financially, you did a great job. I'm not a big financial expert, but I could do the nice real estate that Croatian Radio Television owned for debt, and here's the deal. So, for example, Varazdin, who was very promising lost his property, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, etc. What savings have been achieved by the fact that correspondence has been made throughout Croatia, for example, and correspondence in Bjelovar where war correspondence was first and you did not tell us? You mention the number of employees, we still don't know the exact number, so maybe you'll enlighten us here today so we know how many people are finally working on public service. In addition, you boasted that the programme council had said that you had completed all the tasks prescribed by the Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is absolutely incorrect because the opinion of the programme council of July 2014 requires you to review the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the tasks set out in that contract are not fulfilled. In addition, there are a whole series of problems with the adoption of statutes on HRT because if you did not know 21% of all Croatian journalists work in your house and imagine miracles, the opinion of the Ministry of Culture is excluded from the adoption of media statutes. And lastly, your achievements are best said that the work of the director-in-chief of Croatian radio television is assessed by a poor couple.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102097	Thank you very much. Goran Radman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102098	I can answer briefly. I understand that this grade is one of two possible, satisfying or not satisfying, not referring to school grade 2. Let me get this wrong. So it's possible that you have some other interpretation. Contradictivity in the restructure statement does not exist, I said here that we have completed all the activities related to the restructuring of that part of Croatian broadcasting business relating to the business of our correspondence. Meanwhile, we are conducting the restructuring of our centres, 8 of them in Croatia, and we are starting to restructure Zagreb's Croatian Radio Television Central and we expect to complete the key activities in the restructuring of Croatian broadcasting within the framework of the restructuring plan, which means by the end of 2017. As for the exact number of employees, you also have it in this report, so every month we inform both the public and all interested in the current number of employees on Croatian Radio Television for 2013 that number is reduced by 50 employees and it is already significantly lower today. So Croatian Radio Television is currently hiring with 2960 employees compared to the 3400 I was when I took office and took over. So, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102099	Boro Grubisic, I don't know what you've been mad at before, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102100	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Djurovic, after I lifted the plate, he said let me pick it up too. Well, I've been before him, but you've obviously got someone for me, I don't know, but we're not going to do it right now, I wouldn't want to prejudge it, but we've been good, and I'd like to stay good. But what I wanted to do to the director, the director of Croatian Television, is say that in addition to all these reports, which are positive in a positive 42 million kuna, re-designed organisational, re-editing, consolidation, reconstruction of Croatian television, and that he also tells us some things that he has not said in this matter and are quite important and financially difficult. And these are the number of complaints that Croatian television employees have referred to their former parent, mostly former or current parent institution, so some employees and some former employees. So how difficult are the financial ones, if I could know these lawsuits, how many of these lawsuits there are, in particular, lawsuits that are not only from Croatian television employees but also from others. So how active is the financial burden of these lawsuits in case, I don't know, I won't prejudge a court ruling but God forbid it all lies on the back of Croatian television. Secondly, you yourself know that Croatian television, you didn't tell us that, technologically lags for both commercials, I know two of them, now there may be more, for both commercial televisions. How do you explain that you have an excess income of $42 million, to restructure, to consolidate, and at the same time you are technologically lag behind more teamed and few employees, TVs like some of our commercial televisions. That's what you can see from the shaking of the picture whenever they're transferred from Osijek, from wherever they're from, they're always shaking the picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102101	Thank you very much. The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102102	Here's a very short one. The last number I remember from our internal data is somewhere around 840 active court disputes that Croatia's broadcasting currently has open. I think that somewhere around 40% of total disputes refer to disputes with former or current employees of Croatian broadcasting. So these are mostly inherited legal disputes from before. I personally gave priority to resolving work disputes with employees, and I believe that with so many open work disputes, it is not possible to successfully achieve the management of Croatian broadcasters or achieve the goals that I have outlined. Therefore, to the extent that we have been able to access this, either out-of-court settlements or deals or to settle the relevant requirements that were justified for earlier reasons. Indeed, right now I cannot assess the financial value of these disputes, but this report shows that some of these disputes have been very successfully resolved within the framework of the current financial plan, so there has been no excess of the planned items on this basis. The figures I mentioned do not include the figures so-called. executive procedures that are not directly within the jurisdiction of the HRT which we have left to our business model to law offices and which, at our request and with our agreement, lead them. He's much bigger than this because at the moment we started that series of executive requirements, these executive situations were piled up in earlier years very much. I really don't remember this moment of numbers, but I do know that it keeps shrinking year after year. As far as technology is concerned, I can only say that we have successfully launched an investment cycle and that the first results of completed investments in the change of infrastructure and professional equipment used by our employees are already visible. Unfortunately, there was no such thing in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102103	Thank you very much. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102104	Honored Madam President of the Parliament, Mr. Director. I don't have a lot to talk about business, you didn't have a lot to spend it in, because we're paying a membership fee, or a subscription, you sold it, I don't mind if you sold it and you gave it, maybe you did a good job, you reduced the number of employees, and that's fine, and you didn't have anything to spend it on because you're working from the archives of Partizan films from '46. And you keep showing them, you don't produce any new programs, quality programs that would cost you. What you had to spend that money on. Professional journalists don't speak Croatian, lecturers don't do their job. However, what I want to replicate to you is the main one, which is that you said that HRT has accomplished all its programming tasks. It may be, but the question is, what are your assignments as director of HRT? I believe that through HRT you change the world view to the Croatian people, to promote people who in some way did not like this Croatia, to call people from the region who have no ties, and the region of Austria and Italy do not call them but rather this here a la Rade Sherbedzija and this period. And that you simply banalize the Homeland War at all, and that you are glorifying World War II, you are clearly showing the weight of the struggle in which that former state was created, and this country today as if it didn't exist and as if it wasn't created in blood and in tears. One time on the day of Vukovar, release two hours of the program, and that's more of a fight than the essence. So you have achieved all your programming goals, but in this sense if I am able to show you what I wanted to say this minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102105	Thank you very much. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102106	Then you also achieve these programming goals, but these are not the programming goals.../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102107	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Radman. You want to answer? No, I don't. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102108	Thank you very much. Mr. Radman, one of the fundamental principles of governance is that of authority corresponds to responsibilities. I don't think the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board can complain about powers because it's rare that a public institution has such powers as the Croatian authorities have. But some phenomena suggest that my responsibilities do not correspond to those powers. For example, a year ago when the 2012 debate was being held, I insisted and said that there was no reason for the reports to come by May 31st for the past year if the report on the Supervisory Board was accepted at a session of the Supervisory Board on 11 July last year, and then again discussed the same report at the next session on 27 July. Then it was not known which report was to be submitted to the Assembly, and two months later, both reports were submitted to the Parliament and the previous one. After that, on 1 October 2014, the President of the Assembly must write to HRT and return the reports to you to say that not two reports can come but only one. Afterwards, the chairman of the Supervisory Board delivers without a session of the Supervisory Board only one chosen by him. I'm not entering the law he chose. But today is February and we're talking about 2013. So much for the reports. As for the content of the report itself, Article 215 provides that the short form of the report must be kept when crossing 30 pages. For the business report, there is no short report, and for the report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations, HRT has a reduced report but it would be better not to have it. There is nothing in that report except 92 times a book mark error was written. Here it is denied... I'm sorry to say, this is an act that offends the Croatian Parliament as an excerpt of preschool age. Here, take a look.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102109	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102110	I thank you for that question. Indeed, when it comes to meeting the law of defined HRT obligations towards the Croatian Parliament, there is a problem with time. So we're trying, trying to shorten the time we need to report. It seems to me that in 2013 we managed somewhat to do this because the previous years failed in such short time to complete all the procedures provided for in the law, and as you know they include the submission of the final account, they include the subject of supervision of the commercial audit of these data from the final account, they include the adoption by the Supervisory Board of the relevant report of the commercial auditor, the report of the Director-General and then the submission of that to the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the report on the business of the Croatian Radio Television for which the Director-General is responsible, I can only confirm that all these obligations have been carried out neatly, and that in 2014 we managed to reduce that time in a timely selection through the public tender of the commercial auditor who will then hope and shorten that time further. Only one business report adopted by the Supervisory Board was submitted to the Croatian Parliament, and there is no direct responsibility or responsibility for the Supervisory Board's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102111	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102112	I thank the esteemed vice president. Mr. Director, I will limit myself in my replica to the financial indicators of HRT's business. So, you were talking about financial consolidation and I really have to admit that it was a real challenge to get into the financial situation that you came into when you joined the director's office. So, you said that at the end of 2013, the problem of the old tax debt was solved outside the court settlement with the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, an agreement was signed defining the settlement of the tax debt from the title of the unpaid VAT for the period 2006 to 2008 and the title of the unpaid income tax even from 2004. All of it was totaling 378 million kuna. Therefore, part of the debt amounting to HRK 81 million is offset by the state of certain HRT properties, so certain buildings and land, while the remaining part of the debt amounting to nearly 300 million kuna has been increased, so for that amount the core capital of HRT has been increased. However, in that financial consolidation that you were talking about, there was an additional loss. Thus, the old loss of nearly 400 million kuna, or the one accumulated from earlier years of 335 million, was increased to a total of 742 million kuna or by 122%. So the business year 2013 of HRT ended positively. So, that one negative string is broken, the profit is $42 million. However, given the need to deal with this accumulated loss from earlier years of 0.7 billion kuna, I ask the question how do you think, so with what additional measures to tackle this loss, it would take you about 17 years to cancel these losses. Whether, therefore, there are other additional measures in view of the context that HRT is currently in charge of 5 loans totalling more than 300 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102113	Thank you very much. The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102114	The truly invisible financial situation has burdened the historical books of Croatia with radio television and our ability to do positive business in the coming years is the best guarantee of the successful resolution of all these dubiosiss from previous years. So there are no great spells besides persistently responsible management of Croatian broadcasting costs. On the other hand, we have taken appropriate measures to restructure our financial obligations and to gradually reduce these burdens to the extent that we can do so from our current business. Restructured loans taken over earlier years, especially those with high interest rates replaced with long-term long-term interest rates, and I am pleased to inform you that we have finally started and paid off from the end of 2014 and 2015 and the principals of these commercial loans which we were not able to do in a series of ten years earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102115	And Dragan the Black One, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102116	Thank you. Mr. Radman, at the end of your presentation, you invited us to accept this proposed 2013 report. Most of the time, you talked about restructuring, less about the program, and when you talked about the program and the software content, you said that HRT adheres to the contract signed with the Government and the Law on HRT which tells you clearly what the obligation of HRT is. But you didn't mention it, and I don't know why you didn't mention the bilateral agreements the government took over. Let's put it this way, and you know about it is about protecting the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia and Serbia in Croatia. The agreement the government signed in 2004, and thus the government and this Parliament and the state made a commitment to do so through their public enterprise, which is precisely HRT realising what was agreed, which is the establishment of a Serbian-language editorial on HRT, and unfortunately this was done after 11 years. Although we've heard a lot of excuses so far, which is that we need to change the organization. Here's your reconstruction, your restructuring, there's no money. Here we see that you've increased the government's core capital, or state-owned in a public enterprise, and we have two new channels. I don't know what the problem is and you're alone, or HRT has a representative on the mixed committee. Unfortunately, normally you're not at those meetings, but you always send a representative and we always have some explanation. Unfortunately, we always violate Article 7 of this Agreement. I don't know how long we're going to say it like that after 11 years, that we're going to have explanations at such meetings. Never unrealized what we agreed on, or perhaps we wait as the last article states that this agreement is being concluded for a certain period of time. Maybe he should run out of time, right? Here says each party can write, diplomatically cancel the agreement and in that case cease after 6 months I'm not sure we'll be expecting that, too. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102117	Replication response, Goran Radman. Please hold your time one more time. There's a lot of reports and a lot of replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102118	I appreciate the question. So my seeing the possible direction of the answer to what you're asking is next. During the signing of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, both sides, hence the Croatian Radio and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, agreed on the corresponding obligations to be met by HRT during its 5-year period of duration of the contract, so until the end of 2017. Our expectation was that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on its part, confirmed that all of the CROMAC's listed obligations were also in line with all international agreements, agreements and obligations taken over by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. I have only confirmed that we, on our part, seek to implement all of our programming obligations set out in this contract properly, that we are not always satisfied with the quality, but that when it comes to the formal fulfilment of our obligations set out in that contract, we are implementing it. Of course, both parties at any time can access the annexation, supplementing or modifying that contract if there are circumstances which we are likely to do as HRT and do this year by asking the Government to change that contract accordingly. Adequate changes are welcome by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102119	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, colleague Branko Vuksic. ... It's written to me, I can't tell if it is or not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Mladen Novak, on behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102120	Thank you very much. So only the truth is that the public knows that the board has not held its session regarding these two reports, the report on HRT's business and the Supervisory Board's work report. The fact is, there was no quorum. We all know that it is the obligation of the ruling to secure that quorum, unfortunately there was no quorum. However, I must add another detail, the Committee has not received the Government's opinion on the Report of the Croatian Supervisory Board. He's doing the right thing, considering something else was said at first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102121	Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102122	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed director of HRT, the esteemed chairman of the Supervisory Board, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would look back a little bit on the course of the debate, what we heard from my colleague Mesic and my colleague Glavak. They're absolutely right. When we discussed the HRT Act, we already said that the director of HRT had Pharaoh's powers. That's where I think the three of us were the biggest opponents of that bill, we declared it, we predicted everything that happened that the international community would react to the law that was passed in this House. And it's not true that the law gives the same powers of this law as the one before. The previous law, although I don't think it was good, was more democratic than the potential of this law that we have today. This law has placed one person in the centre and this person has the right to do what he wants on HRT, which is seen after cancellations on HRT or threats or what is prescribed on HRT, which is the law of silence. My colleague Mesic initially said that he listened this morning, saw I don't know I didn't realize that only fellow Radman had made a statement about what was going to happen, the other side was gone. But there is something else. When the last report or debate on HRT was then my answer to Mr. Radman, mine wasn't, what I was saying wasn't. It's HRT's professionalism. Now let's go, I'll try to focus on what we should talk about on the report alone. At the very beginning, only a few, for this report but also the core business of HRT, essential data. In 2013 compared to 2012 HRT made 34 million less but at the end of 2013, it was in plus 42.5 million kuna for salaries and other incomes, which the director, therefore the chairman of the Supervisory Board, persistently refuses to subscribe data to the Assembly under the pretext that in the public company salaries and annexes contracts are a business secret which is a conscious violation of the law. But the Kukuriku coalition allows a director with Pharaoh's nose powers to withdraw a million and 200 thousand subscribers. So 523 million kunas were spent on wages. 31 million kuna more than in 2012. The most interesting thing for the production of the programme is now 252.7 million kuna, compared to 2012 as much as 91 million kunas. Another interesting piece of information that those who do these jobs will understand. For services Senders and links to the state-owned company, $124.5 million was paid, and that no one, although from the Committee on Media and in conversation with the Minister of Culture, had been able to explain whether the costs of the Transmitter and Liaison services could be lower, whether the transaction of the Transmitter and the link had to be spent. What does it cost 124.5 million, and why doesn't the state take care of its money? Not about your money, taxpayers' money. Isn't it time that in a poor country like Croatia, where people who are literally starving have to pay 80 kuna a month, state companies should stop throwing money away. Is the core task of HRT to generate profits like any profit at the end of 2013 or is the core task of HRT to create a programme that will satisfy the public interest? Inform, educate and entertain those who finance this program. And public service in 2013 financed about 1 million 239 thousand people each month. Among them is a third of citizens living below the poverty line. These people these days are knocking on the door of the incasators controlling who has radio, TV and computer. They can't, they can't legitize, they can't punish, they can't punish for not paying a fee or TV subscription, but they can't scare people. It is clear from the law that those who have television or radio should pay a fee of 80 kuna, but it is not clear why they should pay compensation for those who do not have a TV or radio but have a computer connected for example to B.net, or to Maxtv, or to AMIS or any other cable network which, of course, pays for those networks as well as HRT gets compensation from cable and satellite networks that broadcast them in their package. But let's go back to what's before the figures translated into what makes HRT exist and that's the concern, and that's primarily the radio and television program that's mostly in the report and there's a speech. Is he better than he was in 2012? It's a basic question, not how many millions, it's very important to operate HRT in a plus. What did the restructuring of HRT do good for 1 million and 239 grand pay for the programme? Do you see the result of the restructure on the screen? If not seen now or in 2013 because it is shown in 2014, 2015? And is there less chaos than it was before this administration came to the head of HRT, public television that should play one of the leading roles in the development of democracy? As he played it at the beginning said Mr. Mesic. Public television, which should be not a cheerleader, political and ideological non-classified, without blacklists that continue to exist, with some old and some new clans, bosses, political and capitalist powers insecure wonders on the blacklists and suspects and convicts who are pushed into front lines to do dirty work on the screen as pillars of society. Are these no longer so black figures and business in the plus-in hearing with what's on the screen or is business in the middle of content? In other things, business or even more precisely good business of HRT is that the difference between income and expenditure or business is primarily the programme and content, which is why HRT exists? What does the cost structure of this report say, as is said in the report on the implementation of the HRT programme in the programme unit? What is it that HRT is restructured or even clearer when the programme is to be restructured, when restructuring will be seen more clearly both on the screen and on the screen? When will chaos that is constant on the bias, which is already slowly being reorganized to the other HDZ side? So in the blue salon, those who can't wait for Karamark already share the chairs. Is it public television or public television should function equally no matter who manages the state in a few months? A good director would be the director she would have left in this very important and influential position and some other parliamentary majority that had only happened since 2000 with Mirko Galic, who was supported by the HDZ government and the SDP government. Of course, assuming that the new assembly majority also leaves it in the lead not because of its service but because of order, work, objectivity and implementation in practice of the public service principle. Although on the radio on the arrival of the first, those temporary administrations and then these were constantly rematchism and political staffing Croatian radio on the whole of Croatian television is an unattainable meter for objectivity. On the Croatian Radio, they have lost far less sense of importance and are less guided because they are probably less under the reach, satisfaction or dissatisfaction of political and capitalist powers. What Croatian television should be a role model for long commercial TV, which is primarily an information programme that has been beaten from new TV and RTL to legs for a reason. Unlike HTV, NOVA and RTL do not have black lists, do not please the powerful, do not support the clans, but the truth cannot be resented by their dependence on advertising every day by their advertisers. The structure of news, dynamics, sense of importance dominates news and shows of two commercial televisions and is rewarded with ratings. The ratings don't just fall apart. Unlike HTV news, information shows that don't matter what you say, what you stand for, what you do is already the most important thing to whom you belong, whether you're either not nice to one of the editors or, say, one of the many directors of anything on HRT. As the report lists which are important, when the report lists the important emissions broadcast in 2013 pay particular attention to drama or series recorded according to literary mediators and directors. It is mentioned by the rights of Krležin Put in Vučjak, Zagrljaj Ranka Marinkovića, Horvatov Pussom, Prosjaks and sons of Ivan Raos, Krležini and Vrdoljakov Glembajeva and one of the examples of the theatre performances of Kolar Dolenčić's birch in Gavella. Now that we're out of 2013 a year or a year later, we'd like to mention the reruns of the Great Mist, the Gruntovchan, where the wild pigs, the big and unattainable HTV's Eve Sttivićic who was never invited to do something again, we can't ask ourselves what anthological footage took in 2013, '14, '15. What was recorded in 2013 and '14. What will the future generation remember? What will generations in 20, 30 or 40 with interest and respect see from the first or second decade of this century? Or will those new generations, when they no longer admire us with the financial achievements of this administration, or will they admire these millions of extras in the HRT's cash register? Will he know about some $43 million or will he remember the series and the drama? That's a funny question. As ridiculous as it is to claim that HRT is successfully restructured due to 40th on the screen of invisible millions of kunas. The programme was spent 91 million less than in 2012 and 40 million kuna remains in the register. I don't understand the logic of such restructuring in which they are on public television, a company that deals primarily with the production of the programme's most important figures. They are important, but only when they are in the function of creation and not in the function of destruction. The report says that in 2013 the television programme was in the fullest sense intended for the general audience, so whatever it means by providing a picture of Croatian reality at all levels of daily events in the country, from cultural, educational, sociological, religious and existential context of life, I quote from the report. Whatever that means. I guess that means that Prime Minister Milanovic can only be interviewed by one journalist who has a carpet in front of him and another journalist has a carpet when interviewing the president of Croatia. Everyone's power man has his own carpet but not on all the TVs. And of course, who notices it and who says it out loud is on the blacklist. And blacklists should not only exist on public television and only public television has no right to blacklists. Private televisions have the right to do so because they can be right, left, they can be classified. In Croatia, however, commercial televisions have far more respect for public function than Croatian radio television respects. But these lists are not just about politicians, so they don't think that just politicians, that I'm complaining about myself or other politicians. It refers to artists, intellectuals, powers critics. Smart and critical are dangerous to power and should be removed from microphones and cameras. Far from the fact that Croatian television does not have a good show, far from the fact that Croatian television has no good journalists, editors, directors, cameraman, screenwriter or organizer, but it is mostly kept in the seals or given when others are in power on the hood. It's true which guests are visiting which editor under the false pretext that the viewers want him, that's exactly what they want. The ratings of the information programme and other programmes confirm that it is not true. After all, let us remember those famous sentences by the legendary editor Miroslav Lilić, and it reads: "If you showed the carrot on the screen seven days in a row and the carrot would be popular.". But it was also a time without competition, that time Lilić, that he had no HTV with or with whom to compare. Today, HTV has someone to compare with and compare to. But commercial television can and must compete only in the information program, nowhere else where commercial television has far more public function than I said before on HTV. So what's good on HTV and it's mentioned in the report? The third program that has character. And it has a character because those who do it do not slave it with flavors but impose tastes, create what it is when it comes to film and music, the artistic program is far easier and more permissible than it is, it is quite clear to the information and education program. On the third highly profiled program, truth is extracted from the bunker, but it is done badgedly as a badge should be conceived and realised both the first and second programs. Politics can certainly be good goods. On the third, with the cycles of the documentary Lentić or Pejic, the secret Middle Ages of Domagoj Buric can be seen an anthologically domestic and foreign films, concerts, theatre performances, and smart conversations and never enough brains can be heard. It's easy to say, it's easy to say when the program is narrowly profiled, when it deals with art, when it's specialized. Well, in a specialized program, you can miss, you don't know, you can win, you can cheer. The proof is the fourth programme of Croatian Radio Television which is specialized which should be the advantage of HRT and it is, remember only how much it is seen, in fact today's unwanted child. A program in which, without order of criteria and desires, even the knowledge to be made recognizable and thus observable, everyone puts a lot of things into it and puts it on his own by his political walk. When I once visited the fourth, once upon a time, a left-handed woman told me that you could fill those right-handed people with the program. And to God's left-wings never called me, it's public television. My experiences, unfortunately, are not lonely. That's all I talk about in public. And by the end. Do I find the report acceptable? As a set of orderly sentences, yes, but not as a reality that's different on the screen, unpainted, clearer, more visible. When it was restructured, it was cut on the wrong news and it was given in the wrong places. The report also lists countless services with many non-productive personnel, but the first ones were journalists, correspondents, on HRT. The chaos in Prisavlje, which I was talking about at the beginning, is also the latest case related to the inauguration of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. There's another attack at the HRT Coral with this administration being light on the trigger, especially when it comes to unsanitary. They are easy to trigger when they are moved into their vanity by the fact that Karolin Vidovic Kristo has been fired with the right of those who do not agree with her ideologically. They defended the principle because Vidovic Kristo was fired because she insulted Director Radman. But I believe that the court will return Mrs. Kristo to Prisavius. When? If not sooner, when Mr. Radman leaves. I'm taking on a wider story that the participants of the inaugural HTV scandal are going to get fired because they've damaged the reputation of HRT. Who hasn't damaged the reputation of HRT and today is the pillar of HRT? They'll be as likely to be tried for verbal delinquency as in the Kristo case. Those that have been captured by state institutions in violation will not be sanctioned. Why? They're protected by politics. How I believe that not only the figures but above all the contents of the report are not accepted and assessed by the report but also by the operation of the HRT and that I do not consider the operation of the HRT to be merely figures, but above all, I cannot support the report. And now for one phenomenon. You know that before '90. What I was saying earlier was there were shows, dramas, shows that would probably be watched in 100 years. The question is, what did HRT produce after the '90s? A year. There's a big brand on the HRT called Djelo Hadziselimovic. Unfortunately, the biggest brand in the last 20 years has been chosen by Hadziselimovic, a man who knows his job. ...who works with money, pays the subscription and does it well. I'm just sorry that he's doing it well, which is not what Djelo Hadziselimovic is doing, which we didn't let him choose the principal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102123	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came to you, the esteemed Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102124	Dear colleague, you would have concluded from your presentation that you too listen to Croatian Radio and watch Croatian TV. It is nothing strange, which TV and radio should watch and listen to and talk about clearly, transparently and loudly because we care about it as a public service for Croatian citizens. And just as it's clear to us that the principal director is here because of the political support he has from the ruling coalition, so it's clear to us that every editor appointed by the head director is not true that he determines how he's going to create an information program and whether or not he's going to cut you or me out of information shows and leave only a statement from Mr. Director. It's simply not true, and it's the responsibility of the law that's apostrophe, which is the most responsible, with the greatest powers. This report, when we already have the figures, was about to begin with the amounts paid by Mr. Director as head director, which is the amount of Mr. Sruk's salary, which is the amount of the salary of all the leading people on HRT and what they are. And it was supposed to be in the report. Why would it be a secret to both what right and what corporation it is that these salaries should not be known when all officials in the Republic of Croatia, including all of us, must present it to Croatian citizens. Dear colleague, if you do not know who has done the most damage to HRT's reputation, so those in conflict of interest to a respected colleague, much more than these journalists you mentioned to a respected colleague. Those who are in conflict of interest, who should then decide to purchase new equipment and we as parliamentary representatives, representatives of citizens may not say so. We'll talk about it all the time, publicly, loudly. We won't give it up for a second because we really think we're fighting for a better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102125	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102126	Dear fellow Mesic, of course we watch Croatian TV and listen to Croatian Radio because it is national television and we are doing this job and we need to know what HRT publishes, not only to see ourselves on screen but to know how to evaluate the HRT program. As a journalist who has worked in the media for 30 years, I am certainly interested in what the media publishes in Croatia. When we asked on behalf of the board, and that you, Mr. Mesic, clearly remember, that HRT sends the Anexe Treaty Assembly to know what kind of people have contract annexes and how many of these contract annexes. At that time, the Supervisory Board was told, and it seems to me, I apologize if that is not true, that Mr. Radman said it should not be sent because Vuksic, Branko Vuksic, the parliamentary representative, asked for it. And it was just that Parliamentarian Branko Vuksic, and then I asked for it on behalf of the Media Committee. And when we had the sessions, if you remember the the thematic session on HRT in the Small Council, then several MPs asked for the same and the conclusion was that the contract annex report would be sent. This is an eclectic underestimation of the Croatian Parliament or owner, and this can be done if work is not done properly and if politics is behind you, and even if public interests are not looked at. Why would it be something insecure to the public's eyes? And I don't agree that the first journalist on HRT must have a lower salary than the prime minister has because I don't think that the prime minister, and especially not this one must be the standard of everything or the president of the state, but it must be public that someone has 30 or 40 thousand kuna salaries. It has to be public, it can't be secret, it's not money earned on commercial television. It's TV subscriber money and they have a right to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102127	A new replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102128	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I agree very well with what you have said, perhaps 70% but you said that the director of HRT has Pharaoh's powers, that they have given him so. And you should have, I couldn't agree more. I agree that the director should have been given strong authority, to impose order in that institution because it was a big mess, to introduce financial discipline because it was a great indiscipline, to sell something that was not necessary. It's all right. But the problem is, I don't agree with you that when HDZ came or when HDZ was, when HDZ was, we all agreed or disagreed about the director, the TV was more professional. This set said no consensus, we'll put it on to hold praises to the government with a special emphasis on the character and work of the Prime Minister. And that's their problem and they can't get away with it, they can't get away with it, and they can't get away with it, and they can't get away with it. And that's why they run all the policies according to the ruling majority programme, which is only part of the Croatian Corps, etc. We want a professional on TV in Croatia. He could be from a political set. But when he comes to power then he must understand that he represents the entire Croatian people and all Croatian interests and all Croatian souls, not what they do. They deliberately do not want to produce a new programme because they must talk about Croatia for the past 25 years. They don't do it on purpose, I said '47 Partisan movies. year after day. It's our problem with television. It's not the problem of a strong director. It needs to be even stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102129	Replication response, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102130	Dear counterpart Marasovic, I agree with you that the director can be of one political option and the director also has his own political pedicure. And I'm sure Mirko Galic has it, too. But when it comes to Prisavius here I agree with you, this time here and in something we agree we should throw away the key to the Prisavius in the Sava and say no politics. We'll do what we think we should do. This is going to be public television and there's nothing to do if you're going to come to power or someone else who's going to replace that director because he's going to be protected by the public. And that's the most important thing. But that didn't happen. And unfortunately, I have to agree with you and that the HDZ in the last term insisted on a consensus around Croatia on radio television and that consensus has been reached on both the law and the appointment. Why he no longer insisted on it, and the Kukuriku coalition is on their conscience. It would certainly be much better if the director had chosen himself in a consensus or Mr. Radman or someone else and had a cleaner situation today, and would have been that director and obliged, means according to the opposition, that part of the opposition voted for Mr. Radman on objectivity. You said you needed a headmaster of authority. It's just like saying one man in Croatia needs to get maximum powers, it's pure autocracy. I proposed the law at the same time that this law was sent to a procedure that was almost as similar as the former, which is the Supervisory Board elects the Director, the Programme Committee chooses editors. The shared director cannot have the authority to have the authority, however it shows that Croatian broadcasting is not doing a good programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102131	A new replica, the esteemed Sunhead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you have expressed your concern that this surplus will not God remain in the register of HRT. He won't. If you followed the latest developments, then already in January, Mr. Radman defrosted that provision that in some way banned the growth of salaries on HRT, so now I can grow up to 26,000 kunas uninterruptedly and beyond. As for the investments in the program you were talking about, I agree that they were smaller than in 2012. For example, last year, a colleague, Vuksic, spent five and a half million kunas on fuel. We've calculated that they've reached their own world record. For that money HRT went around the globe 14 times. Maybe they're not back yet, so we don't have the results we'd be seeing in the program. As for shooting or drama shows, you may not have noticed them on the screen, but the drama on Prisavlje is permanent. Rest assured, if you no longer write to that extent, we are now being written by HRT employees who are appalled by the way you work and the methods of intimidation. I'm going back to the beginning of your presentation, which is when we've all really warned about what public service will turn into by giving such legal powers to one person. I will remind only Croatian Radio Television as the public service has the biggest public revenues in the Republic of Croatia. No person in the Republic of Croatia shall have such powers at his disposal in public money. And for the end of this replica, what the principal didn't talk about, and we did because we listen to it was Croatian radio. It is something that we can still isolate as a feather of Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102133	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102134	Dear fellow Glavak, that Croatian did as I said in my address earlier is certainly far more professional. Croatian radio would certainly pass the test of the public, Croatian radio is heard and on the Croatian radio you can hear what cannot happen on Croatian television. You can't even hear on the fourth channel in the last news, because there's censorship on HRT that I don't think someone put it together, that the CEO put together blacklists and said these laughs, they can't. I said, some of the editors have their own lists, and some of the precautions don't let go because they could be resented if they accidentally let that man on TV. We could get fired or we could be pissed off. Or they wouldn't be getting paid. And that's what we do, we talk to editors and journalists on TV every day, and we ask why, and it says so. Investment in the program, I don't even think the CEO is the main culprit, so far it's worked on HRT that the program was near the end. This report says that, unfortunately, most of it leaves for wages. However, the chief director pledged at the start of his mandate to resolve this, that there would be more investment in the programme and that there would be less to pay. Now it's more for pay, less for the program. Probably at another stage in four years, but it'll probably be someone else. Yes, wages, cards, official travels, contract annexes, we still insist that you must know how much you make on HRT because it is public, in the interest of the public. We also read, listened, but we don't know because if we asked for reports of those we read in the media, and that's how much we spend on cards, as much as we wouldn't be given on official travels because they would say so, so that's what Vuksic asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102135	Time. Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102136	Thank you. Well, my colleague, I'm no different than you or an expert or internaler with regard to HTV, but as an average viewer of the HRT programme, he doesn't seem much better or worse than he was 5 or 10 years ago, like this as an average viewer. I think a good part of the criticisms that come to the expense of HRT or those who run it this year or five years ago or ten or fifteen years ago come or because of the different dissatisfaction of political democracy to say so. There are always some dissatisfaction with the positions that HRT has, of course always tends to the positions of the ruling. What I don't think was good 10 years ago or today is that HRT, director, editor-in-chief, and similar that they are too much in disposition and under the influence of the ruling policy. That they break journalists too easily if you want, they change them too easily, they squeeze them too easily, and they actually react too much to the impulses of more or less always ruling policies, and that it was never really good for the interests of public television. That was my impression as a viewer. And as the director should endure the criticism of a journalist, not to throw him out or replace him like Karolina Vidovic Kristo or just as Nada Prkacin flew away, I also think that we should protect those journalists who are pressuring politics because they were unacceptable or they didn't like it. So I would actually call for the strength and protection of those people who do this job, not that the chief director or editors react to every impulse that comes from politics and these people squeeze. Of course, these people become disoriented after years of work. Let's let these people work a little bit. And I'm calling on the principal to protect these people more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102137	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102138	Well, I told my colleague Đurovic that when he was elected he should have thrown the key to Prisavia in the Sava and said politics not and protected the programme and journalists. First of all, the journalists who create the program. It is easy for polytocrats that they are dissatisfied with which we belong, but dissatisfaction is expressed by viewers who show research, for example, in an information programme of ratings. HRT of the three relevant TVs in Croatia is in the last place, it should be in the first place because it has all the resources, because it has great journalists, great editors, although technology is outdated and can also make a miracle with this technology. But there isn't. Unsatisfactory viewers. The viewers say they watch double or triple as much TV as they watch HRT. That's the problem. If HRT had been in place in all parts of its programme of recorded progress, I agree with you it is not something so drastically different today or 5 years ago, then our criticisms would have gone into the wind because politicization would have been said, however, indicators show that these criticisms are justified. Yeah, they often break spears on journalists who dare to say so when a journalist takes a loan for an apartment, then when he has two children, he thinks three times if there's a man on the head of television who won't protect him whether he's going to fight back or go down his hair because he needs to feed his family. And it's easier not to confront superiors, which I felt on my skin, than to be loud and to seek justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102139	Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, before me, a lot of MPs mentioned the principal's authority. I am absolutely associated with it at yesterday's debate if you remember in the Parliament when we realized that unfortunately a lot of powers were transferred from those bodies that should really have authority over someone else. For example, for example, the Croatian Parliament cannot discuss the most important topics, but decisions are made by the Government on its own. But because of something else, I answered the line. You said in your presentation whether the basic task is to create profit or quality program? And you mentioned that in 2013 there was a profit of about 42 million kuna and that was, let's say, your finding is not about finance, it's about programs. However, I ask the question how has this profit been achieved? The result of what is making that profit? A fellow Mesic opened a part of the box when he mentioned wages. It's downgraded... Can a colleague have a little understanding? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The number of employees has been reduced, pay allocations increased. Now I'm interested in what the structure of these employees is? If the perpetrators, if they are let's say the other echelon, their number is reduced, whether the number that results in some logic is increased, some senior officials who are well paid. Is it logical if an increase in salary amounts and a reduction in the number of perpetrators, then that's it. You mentioned the division that governments within the HRT, I would say it to the red and blue, it's just a reflection of the division in Croatian society, it's nothing more than that. And I support your commendation to Croatian Radio because really Croatian Radio is a huge bouncer compared to Croatian TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102141	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102142	Dear colleague Novak, of course Shakespeare is alive today would say that television is a mirror of society, not a theater. And normally that what happens in society mirrored on TV, but it's abnormal to mirror too much. HRT has too many professionals, high-school people, people with experience, people who have been there for 20, 30 years, who know what the program is, who have insight into other public and commercial TV programs and who should actually have a situation that is on the political scene of an HRT, should be calming rather than undermining passions. However, HRT has divided into camps, but not even more political camps than clans, clans within television, not HDZ and SDP, but the clans of one person, another person, third party. Well, even these conflicts we've been seeing lately are a matter of great vanity, but I don't think these people need to do it whether it's Hlorka Novak Srzic, whether it's Elizabeth Gojan, that's why they should be fired. It's just a habit on Prisavlje, it's how it's been done. If a good working atmosphere were achieved, if a creative atmosphere were achieved, some collective act, to pursue this collective act absolutely certainly so that the HRT would be a different atmosphere. No one wants a bad HRT, because bad HRT means bad society, HRT needs to keep an eye on its pupils because it has to be the only available media for everyone, the only one who has to objectively inform the public, he is the service of the citizens. And that's why HRT needs to, and that's why we're saying this not because of personal differences, but because of different opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102143	And the last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Vukšić, so we're all dealing with some sort of seemingly general thing, but it's very interesting to look at this supervisory board report from page 35 and beyond where it was talking about HRT finances, so you'll see one indiscretion. It is said that in the 5th, 6th month, a financial report was discussed in 2012, some forms that must be based on some other laws were then discussed two, three sentences behind this to discuss the 2014 report. But if we're talking about 2013, then that's it, but there's one very interesting page, that's page 42, where on the proposal of a member of the Supervisory Board, it's tax-listed what members of the Supervisory Board would like to see in HRT financial reports. So you'll see that what that board member asked for has more or less every little larger firm that doesn't even have its own accounting because if you don't have this kind of analytical data then you can't talk about savings, you can't talk about rationalization, you can't talk about restructuring for the simple reason why you don't see certain indicators. However, when you come to page 55 and 54, do you know how much each year is set aside for the Croatian programme outside the Republic of Croatia? Not even 15% of what you pay for attorneys service to pay for tv fees. And you know what these services are like? A reminder comes to you, you have not paid, if you pay consider this notice invalid and then this service costs 1000 kuna. In 2012, it was 44 million kuna and in 2013 37 million kuna. That's something when we talk about restructuring and rationalisation, because if something that Croatian citizens pay with such practically automation, someone pays to charge maybe 10% or 15% of the fee that is a little harder to charge, 44 million kuna is paid, while at the same time the problems of the program for Croats outside Croatia are not to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102145	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102146	Dear colleague Shuker, thank you for mentioning one thing, not mentioned so far, and these are legal services. HRT should be prohibited from using legal services and should strengthen the legal service. For what? Because the debt of 100, 200 or 300 kuna is increased 5 or 6 times, because those who do not have money to pay the TV subscription must pay to the law offices. So then one law firm has so much money to invest in the media, so he controls the media, then they have to pay the citizens and one third is the poor and 1000, 2000 or 3000 kuna to the lawyer's office. HRT pushed one piece into these people's debt slavery. You know of cases where some poorer families lost their house because they couldn't pay, because they had these bills piled up. This must not happen, it must not happen, HRT must not, and TV subscription must not be a source of wealth for law offices. No state firm, so it happens in Zagreb Holding, which previously charged all debts, has now hired law offices and then returns to loans, etc. on account of what was given hundreds of millions of kunas of income. And I think it's one of the very important things. I've spoken to some members of the Supervisory Board, yes, it's very difficult and now work say on the Supervisory Board, and they don't have all the necessary indicators that should be necessary for the Supervisory Board to do its job properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102147	This wasn't the last replica after all. I predicted two that were listed on the other end of this note. Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, listening to your debate, must first say that I agree with the most part, and I think that 85% of the clubs in this House will debate in the spirit of your debate. But what good will it do in the end? You mentioned one word that is most important to me in this whole story is consensus. In this case, he was left behind, and without him, by me, so in lawmaking and all the specifics of public service, I don't think that public service as such can be. Today we are discussing a report for 2013, so the report in 2014 is likely to discuss some new meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and it is slowly becoming a common but little rule here in this House. And I'm asking myself a question, although this is my first call to see why it's going like this and where it's the responsibility of Parliamentarians, or this House of Highs, all over this story. Aren't we the most responsible and responsible for the law that the European Commission has said is a little worse than the one you said was much more democratic than the one that is now in force. Where is the responsibility of all of us because we did not have a consensus in the adoption, or in the appointment of a new principal. Today we're talking about solving financial delinquencies so no one will say that these financial delinquencies have existed since the beginning of this millennium and that some who have been here for, say, 13 years as colleagues, Cain, they already have déjà vu for the 13th time, "dogs bark, caravans pass" and nothing changes. So where are we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102149	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102150	Dear colleague Milas, you yourself were a member and how much I know a constructive member of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, you know how Croatian Radio Television works and all the problems it has. And very hard, I wouldn't want to be in the headmaster's shoes, but he took that job. The supervisory board of that work has also accepted. And now you're asking what use this debate is. I think the benefit of the debate has. They hear people, they won't change through the night. Many of the democracies in Europe and in the world that exist for 200 years are much better because they exist longer, the longer they learn, we seem to be repeaters and that all that is good we do not want to accept and accept what is bad. I agree with you, you need first to reach compromises, give up something of your own to make a compromise at all, in order to achieve consensus. There should be a compromise between the two largest parties. We need to make a deal. But you need to sit at the table, you need to start talking. And it is always the responsibility of those who, who exercise authority, are those who rule the state, not the opposition. The authorities should insist on the agreement, the authorities should be concerned about selecting the director in the parliament unanimously on Croatian broadcasting. However, the authorities were not aiming at this, as was not aimed at many other problems to be solved by reaching an agreement with the opposition as well. And never like now that we're in such a big crisis, there's a need for more conversation between all the factors on the political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102151	And now truly the last replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vukšić, I agree with you because Croatian Radio Television is a public institution, a public service in order to actually need to announce how many receipts are made to those who are employed on it. It's in the spirit of transparency and public institutions. We cannot talk about access to information, we cannot talk about public institutions and the public of these institutions if it is impossible to find out what the salaries of directors, journalists, editors etc. are. Besides, why don't we find out? Why wouldn't the Croatian public know how many employees, Croatian broadcasters have paid. If I can know all the information about parliamentary deputies, about judges, lawyers, disabled people, etc., why wouldn't they know about journalists, who bay the way some of them... That's exactly the kind of pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm talking to some individuals. We can't talk about a business report without looking back at the program. And when we talk about the program, then the worst point is, unfortunately, an information program that should be a role model. I'm not talking about the radio. I really do commend the radio program like everyone's ever done before, but I'm talking about television. Unfortunately, many turn programs and that's a fact. Why are they going to change on TV that the Dnevnik will be broadcast at 7:00? Why are they going in there? Do they think the clock will improve television viewing? Well, that's not true. Only by content can you change the view of a specific application. And apparently, Croatian television did not find good solutions under the leadership of this director. I must say, unfortunately, the whole debate today will obviously be me in the compartments and the director in the pastures. Today, a whole tone of debate will seem to be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102153	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102154	Dear fellow Matušić, yes, Croatia worked as a public service. All employees on Croatian TV should be posted, it should be on the Internet so that you can check with one click how much they earn. First of all, no one wants to put anyone on a pillar of shame. All those who are financed by public funds, all wages must be, all fees should be known to the public, that the public knows. And I repeat, it's not a sin if there's a reporter on HRT, an editor, a cameraman, a big pay director, just so the public knows. But I can assure you that many in contract annexes have high wages because they are similar, because they have done some work, because it will be seen that they are not the best paid but are the most paid ones who are always close to the fire and know how to warm up well. And for 20 years, you've been very well on HRT. Here's what you asked for and we asked for at the one where you were in the the thematic session, at the the thematic session of the committee we asked for. I also appeal to the new chairman of the board to request that it be done once more in writing. It won't be done. Why, well, because it will be signed, I guess all MPs should be signed and that power won't, so the MPs of the majority won't sign to get what we're asking of HRT, what would be polite to HRT to, politely if not otherwise, if not legally. However, money cannot be spent without knowing what the money is spent on. No secrets. HRT can't deal with secrets and can't pay for movies or shows or anything else to be secret contracts. That HRT can't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102155	We're continuing to discuss clubs now. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Grubisic and Cain were reported. The first will be spoken by the respected Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102156	Dear Mr. Vice President, director of HRT, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's one saying... it's human sin and who does it and mistakes it, if it doesn't work clearly, it can't make a mistake. That HRT can be better, more objective and more transparent it is quite safe and that the current HRT director's office in these two years could not have put all the cards in place so that it really worked out as the public expects them to. Since I was alone in the HRT Council Programme for a while, I know some things on the inside that they were talking then. I would ask Mr. Director how many employees there are on HRT, and how many payers are on HRT. I know from one example that it's one branch president, one branch that only comes when he gets paid, and he's never there when it comes to programs or counseling or anything else. So we're interested in the public service of how many employees there are and how many provisions that just come for wages, and they're allegedly provided by I don't know what rule or law. That should be made public. The objectivity needs HRT to be familiar with our social, economic and other realities, but this objectivity is difficult to achieve here and such objectivity because regardless of the well-willed nature of those in charge of conducting and running HRT, there is an autocensorship of certain editors and journalists and that this self-censorship in my opinion is a major obstacle that HRT is not doing what is expected of it. So that self-censorship that makes people susceptible and what they're holding it for, is it a general phenomenon of a cynicism or one hypocrite I don't know about, but I'm sure it exists. Secondly, when it comes to objectivity, it is necessary not to fall for any provocation that stems from the viewers or their questions. HRT needs to know what a public media is, what services it must do, not raise any pressures. The choice of guests in public shows in my opinion is concentrated which is normal on the one hand, and on the other hand is not normal, concentrated on Zagreb and on several people who are always invited to the shows. By which rule, whether or not I know the expertise of some people, I don't know all people clearly. But I feel that there are some clans that are ruled here and mentioned in the replicas, which then call their neighbors, known, and they are like some imposed or official authority because they say it was him on television, don't you say so. So the choice of guests must be more transparent and must not depend on any clans. Editors, there are people who are real editors, they know what they want, and they're happy to watch their shows. But in one division among humans, other than individuals, we also have the ability. A heavy little word especially when it comes from my side, but I'm afraid that the quality has in all areas of life, which is a person of which no man and recognizable human values have occurred. So, as little as possible, as many people on television with built-up attitudes regardless of the worldview or party membership, as well as as more people who have the character that they do transparently, who stand behind what they do. Here's so much in my presentation. And now he will continue in our custom another representative from the club of Independent Representatives Mr. Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102157	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102158	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, here I want to believe that in the event of a change of government, Croatia will be exactly what attitudes today represent colleagues on the right. So, not the way she was in the '90s, not the way she was after January 3, not the way she is today, but exactly the way we had the chance to listen. Clearly, it's one thing to act as an opposition, another to act as power. Let's be objective, the media is too powerful a weapon to let these media politicians out of their hands and not use them. Unfortunately, gentlemen will. It's not good, but it's like that. We are Croatia, part of that Croatia. I've been here too long in this assembly to see how the government works, and tomorrow the government will act as those who, for example, ruled from 2003 to 2011, and television, the media is a prerequisite for some authorities. Gentlemen, it's a powerful toy to get out of hand. We can paint, but I repeat again HRT is a lever of power and no one will give it away. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I won't be in that position to rule, I'd probably behave differently. But those who will be in power will rule in one way or will manage Croatian broadcasting as they have learned over the past 25 years. Yeah, someone mentioned these law offices. And then what we have is one situation, I simply can't understand going to that lawyer, raising a 15 million kuna loan, raising that loan to a politician, and imagine paying that loan I'm guessing an interest of 8 or 9%. So how much does that lawyer service cost at the end? Who can afford that? But let it go, I didn't mean to talk about it. But I need to ask the principal immediately if it's possible, because people call me to cancel the show "What's hurting me"? But let's let it go now. There's an interesting report ahead of us. I argue that one of the few media that is open to almost everyone on the political stage is Croatian Radio Television. It's not a good thing what's going on out there today is sharing chairs, etc. But that's the case from the beginning of this country. But I say once again that HRT is the only open television in the Republic of Croatia. I was in court with HRT, and I was sued for saying a word about this Assembly pay phone. They asked me for about 140,000 kuna plus interest, etc. But I always said HRT was open or opener than any other television. What do we got? As this House can be hit as much as it wants, so can be hit on Croatian radio. What am I supposed to tell you now, for example, about local television or some other TVs like that? Now, there, on those TVs you have a boss, but the boss isn't the one who's under quotes I don't know who's like that, but the real boss is the one who's funding them. And they finance mainly these local televisions by political powers at local level. It doesn't matter if it's about the mayors, the mayors, whether I don't know about the mayors or not. And then what happens? They turn these words of the media into their party bulletins or rather political fists. And that's true, gentlemen. But Croatian broadcasting can be talked about, we need to talk about HRT, and these other TVs simply or radio stations must be kept silent. In one word, what's allowed one isn't allowed to another. I'm absolutely fighting for freedom of speech, for free television. I'm also fighting for an independent director. And now about what's certainly not right, and what I have to say is because I promised people who asked me to mention it. It is alleged that HRT or HRT radio Pula should be moved from Pula to the premises of the OTP bank from existing premises. Let's let it go now whether it has something to do with what ten percent owner of OTP MOL is less important. The problem when we talk about these correspondence from Pula is much more layered. Arena Tricotage is in bankruptcy, this business building is being sold. The voice of Istria holding the Arena equally, it seems to be sold through a pre-war settlement and over the Voice of Istria is Croatian Radio Pula. It's said that this whole complex will be sold as a whole. Apparently, I don't want to talk about those names, speculate and who might buy it. However, why would HRT sell the HR premises in Pula? There are 35 people working on the radio in Pula, and 20 other people have been working in Pula since '93. years in the House of Defense. I said HR Pula has its own spaces. Everything can, without any swear compensation, at least that's what people who work on the radio, on television, convince me to put themselves in the existing areas of Pula Radio. Unless someone wants to, I don't know what to do. I see that HRT has some problems on this report. The revenues with a TV subscription were reached at a rate of 1 billion and 413 million kuna, with a profit of 43 million kuna in 2013. Interestingly, in 30.06.2014 there were 3169 employees, in January that same year 3287, today some tell me that around 2900 people work on HRT. When Mr. Radman arrived, there were reportedly 3600 employees. Meanwhile, 70 people were admitted, under quotes "gone", not fired, but about 700 people left. There must be a clear rationalization. Someone assures me that the size of the HRT business could be done with maybe 50 percent of the employees. Surely what is crucial in these reports is seen on page 13 and 14 of the report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT. These tables show what the ratings were from 2002 until the end of 2013. Let's take one reference precrisis in 2008, then HTV 1 dropped 32.6%, HTV 2 14%, then HTV 3 was gone, on NOVU TV 19.5% and on RTL 22.8%. In 2013, what was on HTV 1 2008 was 32.6% now at 16.8%, HTV 2 what was 14% now is 7.9%, that HTV 3 is only 1.4%. NEW TV from 19.5% jumped to 24.9%, DOMA TV 5%, RTL from 22.8% to 15.8%, but RTL 2 has about 4%. Yes, what may be a key question is, is it possible on HRT, to do with around a number of employees working on some other televisions and which are incomparably more viewed? What is not good, if true, is that HRT shares power within itself, and then some say that the 1st programme under quotes is a program of "ruling" and that the 4th channel is "opposition". If that's the case, then let's say it like it is. in one I don't know Italy where exactly what is the program for what or for whom under quotes "intentioned". It can be done, but then it has to be known. Employees at HRT but also here in the Parliament clearly because of that, lively talk about wages. Well, then they say how many of those points they have, how many others they have, etc. In my opinion, as everyone here has said, it would be no problem to bring in good editors or journalists or retaining the best people to pay them and compare them with salaries on commercial television. That would be even simple and logical. Because if someone is offered somewhere else twice as understandable that they will leave HRT but they will carry with them experience, knowledge, name and ultimately HRT will feel it. Seven unions reportedly operate on HRT. So every 250 employees have one union. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, 300. All in all, I don't mind but I don't know how much it is, if it could be made differently simply. I've been told by some, they mention that the HRT Supervisory Board has been questioned by the police in a contract with ZAMP. Allegedly, the members of the Supervisory Board were exposed to the pressure to approve the 3-year contract of HRT and ZAMP in value or equivalent to the 67 million kuna concluded last year. Is that true, I don't know. On page 9, it is said among other things that the first television programme in 2013 was in full terms intended for the general audience by providing a picture of Croatian reality at all levels of daily events in the country, Good morning Croatia, Croatia live, etc. The second programme was recognizable, and the legal and contractual obligation to address the channel to the general population its targeted term division was continuous, third programme, fourth programme, news etc. etc. On page 10, this contract is about or with the Government if I'm not mistaken of some 13 million kunas. What's the key to our television is this subscription. We see that the advertising in 2013 has raised 102.4 million kuna, on the other hand the revenues from the RTV tax amount to 1 billion 189 million kuna, which will say that the total income is 1.4 million kuna. Here they are also given among other costs of production per channel. All in all, I want our television to be open television, to be good television, and especially to be independent TV in the election year. And that should kind of be it. I said about this average ratings, not now from the diaries, but maybe it would be the same, or it wouldn't be worse to think that TV subscribes one larger amount to the Electronic Media Fund, so for what we call encouraging pluralism, regardless of what some televisions are mostly local and we can say that everything is just not a guarantee of pluralism in certain areas. Among other things, it was said here that at the 21st session held on 19 April 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the establishment of salaries and other remuneration of presidents and members of the management of companies under which the Supervisory Board could arrange an annual reward for the president and members of the board, a variable part of the salary in brackets of a stimulating reward, exclusively in companies operating in profits or reducing losses, or in which the Supervisory Board positively assessed the implementation of the company restructuring plan. It is said that the stimulating prize can be paid once after the adoption of the financial report for the previous year and for large companies, it is up to 80% of the monthly gross salary of the number of months per year. It would be interesting to see if perhaps that kind of stimulation or annual awards, here stands a stimulating reward, owns or achieves someone on HRT. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, it said, has adopted on 25 November 2009 an anti-corruption programme for majority state-owned companies for the period 2010-2012 which has no longer been in force since the beginning of 2013, but therefore, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia has made a recommendation in January 2013 that companies in the majority ownership of the state draw up annual anti-corruption action plans which should contain certain measures to combat corruption in their field of action. It would be interesting to see if someone in HRT "and caught" on this "anti-corruption action plan. All in all, personally, I will vote for this report no matter what. I think this work can be significantly improved, but when I see how the media works at some local level, then I see that it's simply HRT against them's mother's sweetheart.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102159	We've got replicas reported, exactly seven of them. One is yet to be sent to the respected Ivan Grubisic, and Mirela Holy will present it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102160	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Grubsic talked a lot about the human situation on HTV, so I guess he and I ended up seeing it from previous discussions and a number of colleagues and colleagues got information from people who worked on HTV. They also spoke to me, and they are highly revolving with the fact that the pay policy on HTV is that there are individuals who have extremely high salaries of 30 thousand kuna and more, and on the other hand very large numbers that work mean these specific things on the ground have extremely low wages. In this regard, they suggested that consideration be given to the possibility that the level of salary on HTV would be limited between 15 thousand kunas as the highest possible salary and 5.5 thousand kuna as a minimum salary, as in the end and thus the total mass of wages would be distributed more fairly within the HTV itself. There have also been a lot of words here about that HTV is actually not acting as public television, and the fact is that there is a certain crisis on HTV and a crisis with HTV, which is ultimately visible from the report, so certain reforms that would go in the direction of changing certain management powers and responsibilities in terms of operations that would be more transferred to executive bodies such as the supervisory board, the coordination of trade unions and the HRT Council, and I hope that this will ultimately be a matter of thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102161	Replica Drazen Djurovic sent to Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102162	Thank you. Well, fellow Caine, the headmaster counts small, we're all aware of that. So that's the question for the next few months to the year. But what I think he could do in this time, and I would actually invite him to do it, and that's to get these two journalists back to work because at a time when he stops being the director, it's going to be easier to live. So the two journalists Karolin Vidovic-Kristo and Nada Prkacin return to work. And another thing he could and would do well to do, because his successor will do so much harder, and that's when it comes to law enforcement services. Because this has already been said for years about this problem in many private systems of executions are written by administrative officials, no lawyers. That's why you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, you don't need a lawyer, there's a sprawl in insurance companies, in different companies, they don't pay any legal services, they don't pay the amount, the deadlines, the delays, they send it. You have, if you could make 5U1 cameramen in correspondence, I'm sure you have administrative staff enough on HTV to set them up 50 or 70 as much as you need to, and within a few hours, educate them to fill those delays and to write them and that the cost of the executive proposal should not be 200 or 250 kuna, but to make it 10 or 15 kunas as it already is today in many private systems. And that would be something that you can solve within 2, 3 months and that would certainly bring you a lot of pluses with Croatian citizens who are already overburdened and pay an expensive subscription and then the cost of doing them still quite, quite pressured. So don't believe that only lawyers, lawyers, and the like can do it. It's a very simple system that anyone can write.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102163	And I call again on all MPs not to replicate to the proposer when they are already reporting to the replica of their colleagues. Use your speech skills you must have, so at least it looks like you're replicating Caina. Try again. The answer to the replica, which was not addressed to him at all, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102164	I won't replicate either. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102165	Of course you do. A new replica of Boro Grubisic to Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102166	Thank you very much. I will speak directly to Mr. Cain without speaking to the director of Croatian television. You mentioned a TV centre in Pula that went to rooms owned by OTP bank, either forgetting or deliberately saying that the same attitude happened in Dubrovnik. So now I don't know if the main television here in Zagreb will be the same if there's an OTP bank that has some space to move from Prisavia to OTP Bank. About OTP bank ties, here's what you mentioned about MOL, I wouldn't talk because I don't have enough arguments about it. A contract with ZAMP in weight or at 60, as you said 7 million kunas there were certain checks but the police allegedly gave up further searches. Well, we probably know why she gave up. The legal costs you also spoke about 21 law firms earning on behalf of Croatian television, i.e. the subscriber of Croatian television million and 600 million kuna. Indeed, my colleague Djurovic made a good proposal, and I think that you will agree that each and every city company Komunalac has its own service that sends notices and other communication with citizens who can, as well as Croatian television that has hired them, you have told yourself 71 employees new of which 13 have a coefficient of over 21 or, excuse me over 13. And this means that these people who are not in that productive part of Croatian television, so to speak. The executive service, which is actually the main role of Croatian television rather than the administrative executives, for example, executive editor, and then, just to take a look at these, legal affairs, coefficient 15 etc. There's a later speech in my speech if I have to say names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102167	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102168	That I am also asking myself why these jobs are not done by lawyers or employees of Croatian Radio Television. Or just some, some law firm under quotes filled with money that will later draw guarantees for those who will use it. I said that so a Zagreb politician came up with a guarantee of 15 million kuna someone had to take a loan, that loan should be paid an interest rate of 8 or 9% I don't know, 10 or 7% so how much does it cost? What's that? I mean, let's not just paint, we all know what's in the background. I would once again like to warn that in the current space radio Pula at the address of the Coastal Marshal Tito 10/2 has both physical and functional enough space for the accommodation of the existing 35 people from the radio and 20 from the television that have been written to me by normal employees since '93. located in the House of Croatian Defence. They suggest that instead of unnecessary moving costs and renting, they remain common in a large enough area of Pula radio. Or Wednesday, it's intended to sell the entire complex under quotes from a known buyer. If that is the case, then the Istrian and Croatian public should be made clear, unequivocally speaking of what is their intention. The same way, I see that both Dubrovnik and Zadar are on the same page as in Pula or that they should be down in Pula, which were meant to be situated in two locations: the Croatian Centre of Dubrovnik in Villa Dubravka and Villa Cingrija, are now jointly located in the rented premises of OPT bank in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102169	Time. A new replica, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102170	Mr. and colleague Caine, I'm going to replicate to you and you, Mr. Radman, listen to me as well. You said this HRT was a toy of this government. I'd supplement you if HRT had been a expensive toy of all governments since the 1990s on this side. Mr. Radman is only the current culprit for the current situation on HRT, but he is just as guilty as all those directors who were and served the governments before them. It is known that over the past 25 years every government that has arrived, every new director has brought his reliable staff, listeners, both journalists and other staff. But there's another problem, which is all those brought by the former director, the former government, the others are in love with HRT, and today they're getting fat wages, and they're doing nothing. So we came at one point up to 3500 employees, today it's 2800 employees, with a small tendency to decrease. Besides, I'd like you to explain to me, Mr. Cain, how it's possible that the HRT for this program, which is as high as it is, has employed 8 employees on one employee working on commercial television. Is that program eight times the quality? I don't think so. I'd ask if it was any better. Nevertheless, I wouldn't mind having these thousands or several hundred people who don't do anything but pay, I wouldn't mind a bad program, because there's a simple solution to that, when a bad program is transferred to another TV or you turn off the TV, but it bothers me that it's funded by Croatian people who don't simply give their children what they are for. Recently, there was a debate in this House that there were hungry children in Croatia. People tear off their children's mouths to pay 80 kuna subscription to HRT...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102171	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102172	And they paid all kinds of earrings, which some unreal fabricated cost, and that it would be inaccessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102173	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102174	And I'd like to ask another question, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102175	Mr. Drmic, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102176	Why didn't you ask Mr. Radman.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102177	I shut you down. ... I shut you down. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've turned off your microphone, so you're talking nonsense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] New replica, Jasen Mesic. ... New replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I'd like to add something to the debate you had when you mentioned different local media and their addiction to local sheriffs, let's call them that and you're absolutely right. Although these same media get concessions, they make a commitment to report on public events that they often do extremely biasedly. It's a special story and it has nothing to do with this. From that perspective, HRT's work is great, great because any political option can come to that television and its opinion can be heard unlike the different local radio stations and television. And I would also take this opportunity and I would especially like to commend Croatian Radio-Radio Osijek and its employees who are extremely dedicated, correct in their work, reporting more than correctly and seriously, and I have not yet experienced in my political action that some political option has been lifted in the exercise of their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102179	The last line... Comrade Cain, if you're going to respond to the replica, you need to pick up the tile. ... Well, look, my associate was watching. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102180	More culturally, every time I get up and then I back off when I'm warned. But okay, come on, I'll back off now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102181	Guys, I'm asking you nicely not to make a fuss and try not to work in the session. I'm sure I'll do it myself. Comrade Cain, you must raise the plate so that we can see either your associate here or me. ... I've been watching you and I've been watching you the whole time and you haven't picked up the plate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Last line, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102182	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Cain, in your discussion you mentioned, you were actually reading what the report shows, and that's HTV's ratings, at least that part of his most important program. We can say that HRT passes through the fate of all of those major public institutions that have passed this fate in transition and we actually see these similar points of contact. Speaking of ratings, she was before '90. and 45% in the information term, now it's about 9%, but ratings certainly aren't something to value HRT's work by because it's in specific circumstances. HRT is not only attached to the public and not only to the content that is appropriate to the public but it must also shape the public. It's her role and her assignment. In this sense, it is in an unfair match with commercial televisions. I would like the same, and probably most of them here that the Dinamo football club is playing in the eighth finals of the Champions League today, but you know that a large number of good players who in that Dinam staged, formed, went to major European clubs. A little bit of this picture also speaks of the situation on HRT because many journalists who gained their reputation and credibility on that house went to commercial television. You mentioned it in the debate, and it's actually hard to bring these people in because we're coming back to money and how to pay these people. And one of the important things about the information program is credibility and it actually raises ratings. Persuasion is achieved for years of work, which is then recognized in public. Of course, HRT must insist on the information and documentary programme being a leading house in relation to commercial television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102183	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102184	So let the HRT be free, let it be independent, let it be independent, let it be dignified and be available to everyone, and then probably these tables about their ratings will begin to change. The ratings will be higher, not that year after year it falls apart. But no matter what, I will repeat again and this Croatian radio television is more accessible to everyone than any other commercial television. And what happens at a local level mostly in the areas where I come from, I think it wasn't even in those lead years after World War II or between World War II. So much for honoring the local government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102185	Thank you. We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Suncana Glavak will speak, followed by Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director. I see there's also Mr. Gotan, Mr. Srook, we haven't heard a word. But then, people came, so let them hear what we have to say about what they sent us. The subjective report we heard at the beginning of 2015 refers to a long time ago in 2013 and given the length of standing on hold for more than a year we can only conclude that things did not start on Croatia's broadcasting for the better, as more chaos continues. It's not a rerun, it's a soap opera paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The pompously announced and described here as a success of the restructuring process has led to one word. If it's to judge by the daily cry from Prisavia from restructuring to intimidation. About the methods of convincing the worthy Kafka Process unscathed I'll do something later. The document presented to us without precedent is simply presented and we had no insight into the goals and obligations of HRT under the Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Namely, the Programme Council delivered its opinion to the government and parliament in July last year. However, there were no MPs in the impediments to the HRT reports, which is tragic. The same role is played after the adoption of a new law and members of the Programme Council which should be the control mechanism in implementing the same contract. So now, so my words of honor are about to be cried out by the headmaster at the beginning of today's address, everything on HRT runs without any major problems. The fee is charged neatly, so if someone doesn't pay it neatly, it's done neatly. The number of employees according to the data presented from the end of 2012 to the beginning of 2013 decreased even by 8. You have to admit big savings. But it is therefore known that the largest public company in the Republic of Croatia each year shoots a billion two hundred million kuna in the name of the tax, which is the only one that is listed in the Croatian Business Stability Parameter Report. In other words he tells us and the principal, if we won't pay the fee they won't have anything to live on. From this comes the radio, no radio fee will come and regularly no later than the fifth of the month since that same fee is known as the subscription from which the pay of the unknown number of employees on this day is spent neatly half a billion kuna. We've already tried to find out what the wages are here. The public keeps this more secret than those of NASA employees, rather than perhaps getting an answer as to how much their incomes are. It was only possible to find out that the savings had been completed and that since January 26th of this year, wages can be freely moved up to 26,000 kunas for those who may not have had them by now. This encourages pro-resion measures, as elections need to be ensured. We need to replace another editor and set up one of our own if we still have them. Because, of all those shifters, we're going to have to spin another lap, so let's see if there's anyone else who can get a warrant from the building across the street doing what needs to be done. In the impasses of software content, the change of regulations, the internal reconstruction from which no one knows who is who, why, when and where the competent person has to sign you would not go 14 times around the globe. What is in the public interest is the fulfillment of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is under the responsibility of the Programme Council. His role was neatly reduced to ficus. He doesn't need to be watered especially, because no one's looking at him anyway, let alone reading it. People come to meetings, they write mostly to the principal, he doesn't answer them in circles like that. It is not surprising, therefore, that on one occasion, the director-in-chief very vividly apostropheed the role of the Council in saying, "They are not here to think and participate in the creation of the programme but to comment on the programmes shown." And then what? Nothing. Similarly, if members of the council dare to do what they are actually given as elected members of the Programme Council, such as the latest flash of information when monitoring the inauguration of the President of the Republic of Croatia was encouraged by the elected member of the Council, Jozo Barisic, of course, to be fired. It's no wonder the verbal delinquent was already flying from HRT after a brief procedure that took place this time and Hloverka Novak-Srzic was again, and she was threatened by an alleged failure, and that Karolina Vidović Kristo and many others who had already experienced it without saying it. It would be interesting, therefore, to hear how many work disputes are under way on Croatian radio, or how many HRTs have been lost. But this isn't a lonely fire story. Forty editors have been removed, emissions abolished, correspondence abolished, disproportionately fired and employed. Because the task force of human potential can hardly add it all up. So for 2013, they managed to issue 36 regular job cancellations, 6 redundancies of extraordinary and regular ones say again, 43 pension decisions. This data doesn't really show how many cancellations are distributed, how many people are in correspondence. But what is seen is that this year 5 million kunas will be allocated for agency services for temporary employment. I wonder who's gonna hire these people, what agency, what commission, and where these people are gonna work? On the one hand, restructuring was discussed, including a reduction in the number of employees. And when we see it on the new job line. Speaking of savings that have repeatedly been apostrophe for every relevant body on HRT, for example, will be greatly saved on foreign travels. 10 million kunas are planned for this year for foreign travel. And for agency accommodation services on official travel in the country. They will travel around the world for just over 8 million kunas. If you're not satisfied with the program, you don't have to watch it, but you have to pay for it. That's what the law says. If you're not paying, you might get a letter from HRT, and they like to write, because for postal services this year, HRT needs 10 million kuna. But if you come to HRT, you'll be absolutely safe because this year's physical protection services will cost 4 million kuna, guaranteeing your safety. And there's paint and all clean and all for 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. Strong millions, a lot of the numbers the media least likes, but when we add them all up, it won't be funny to us at all. And now the program, so HRT can even know what's going on on so-called. The public service will conduct a continuous survey of the viewership of the programme for 5 million kuna. Mr. Chief Director, here we will make a small contribution to savings, don't spend 5 million kunas, come to the Assembly more often, come to committee meetings and we'll tell you what the program looks like or what people write to us and how viewers react after being exposed to such and such shows on HRT. And since we are already of which ratings which, of course, is not the main task of public service, here's how things are, for example, in December 2014 and in receipt of them from 19 to 23 hours. The analysis of ratings in all three measured groups, so plus 4, then 18 to 50 and over 50 below the top ten shows was a single HTV sport. So we're not talking about fun content here, we're talking about an information program. It also wanted to speak to the Programme Council for free of charge, warning precisely about the shortcomings in the programming sense and the necessary improvements in the contract with the Government. The Council is of the view that, above all, the proposal for new programming content and the abolition of individual emissions should be notified on time. Just as the council has no idea at this time and can find out, of course, from the media that the central information show, so the CROAT Journal, will begin broadcasting at 7 p.m. as a result of the scheme which is truly unusual and so far unseen. The Council equally believes that HRT must consistently invest in fulfilling its public function, which means that it must invest in its potential and creative strengths. They need to be invested in them, and they don't need to be punished, shut down and let them work. The Programme Council also considers that the promised multimedia structure and conversion of HRT have not been converted into a public service and that it does not in any case fulfil the role of public service as it should be. Common staff changes, three changes to the scheme and a radical reconstruction as a consequence had an unstable environment which, according to the members of the Programme Council, marked 2013. About 2013, we talked about, you'll only remember for a moment, there were suicides, sex scandals and what wasn't. That was what the media wrote about and what was the least that was quoting HTV journalists. What is not given as much attention is so-called. new media that are no longer so new. Information software content since the IMS structure has been a permanent problem, resulting in a significant decline in viewership. In any case, it is necessary to adopt an annex to the contract in order to correct the observed illogicalities, as soon as possible to draw up an annex of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and lay down clear rules on recording of the broadcast content, setting up content and formal rules on the annual report, quarterly control of quota completion and the focus of the annual report on the quality of the public service of the HRT. First of all, it is February, so if it starts from month to month, we will not listen to the report for 2015. My colleagues and colleagues and what we are talking about at this time about public service, I think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking, so are they normal? At a time when burning unemployment, when there are no foreign investments, when people are wondering how they're going to buy bread and milk, we're discussing a public service that after that at 7:30 and the new ones at 7:00 don't serve half of why we pay them. Exactly someone said it's a lot to people 80 kunas. There's a lot of people and five kunas, and maybe you should think about the huge money for our most enormous public enterprise. The basic tasks of each media service are to act in the public interest, to support democracy. What we can say on the side of the opposition is that this democracy has not been very helpful in some support as many times as it has been denied us. So that I don't deny my colleague Jasen Mesic's time, who will talk more about the Supervisory Board's report, I'll just say that the end of HRT has great press feathers, there are great people who can bring out great programs. Don't lock them up in some empty public service, don't threaten them with cancellations, don't blackmail them with parking spaces. Let the people work and the HRT begin to fulfill the role of public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102187	Continued Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102188	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director with his associates. You noticed that we listen to Croatian radio, you noticed well and we watch Croatian TV. It's also a question of our national expression towards our and our national tradition and our national culture. And what other radio and television should we watch at this time in the Republic of Croatia? That's why I'm talking about it more clearly than other things because we care about leaving at least the basic prerogatives of public service. It is not true that the Director-General has no influence on the directors, as he also appoints directors of the program and decides on editors. Therefore, the explanation that the Director-General cannot respond to what is happening in the information programme is not true, as it is not true that the ruling policy does not have an impact on the Director-General. There is also now likely to vote in favour of this report, thus allowing it to extend its mandate as it was allowed to continue its mandate after most of them changed a law that meant political consensus. Mr. President of the Croatian government, Mr. Milanovic, wonders what he should discuss with HDZ and the opposition when it comes to consensus? Well, here's Mr. Prime Minister first on the HRT Act where you've reached the possibility of political consensus. Here is a chance for you to start establishing Croatian public institutions for the kind of institutions you should be that you crashed in the first possible run-in here in the Croatian Parliament by voting for most hands. And what did we get? I'll remind you of what my colleagues and colleagues have been saying, persecuting journalists, persecuting editors, persecuting everything that the HRT doesn't think the way my head thinks, feel free to replicate my colleagues and colleagues, so I'll give you names. And it is not true what Mr. Cain said when the HDZ was in power, because the HDZ in power in 2010 passed a law that meant political consensus and for that was supported by the then opposition which, when it got its hands on the authorities after the elections, changed it. The salaries of leading people on Croatian television, why would it be a secret, why when paying for it by Croatian citizens who have the right to know what the salaries of both the Prime Minister and the Croatian Parliament are. Why is this a problem, why in 400 and some articles about HRT that came out for 2013 in more than two-thirds we have headlines on scandals, why have we not yet implemented until the end of the methodology of keeping separate accounts from the commercial one, which is our legal obligation? Why do we have a constantly latent issue of conflict of interest in HRT leadership? I would like to remind you that there has been a conflict of interest between Mr. Boris Sruk, who is here today, the case of Mr. Zimenje, who was punished by the commission with 7 thousand kuna, is a matter of conflict of interest from the head director who is being punished by the commission. The issue of irregularities in the case of Maja Tokic and the case of Adriana Tomasic. And then we're asked to trust HRT leadership. It's not true when they say that public television shouldn't, that ratings shouldn't be one of the arguments, it stands with a series of programs, but it doesn't stand with an informative one. Because the information program, unless it is viewed, means it is not objective and relevant. This stands for certain programmes concerning culture, art and others that should spread knowledge in public about it. For the information program, it is not worth it to a respected colleague. He has to be as watched as possible. Unfortunately, some informative emissions lead to the fact that the part relating to the weather forecast is the most objective and accurate, while all other things go hand in hand to the ruling coalition. Because otherwise, the ruling coalition that says it has raised the scale high that the Bundesliga supported this leadership of Croatian television and following the findings of the Commission on conflict of interest. So he supports it because it politically corresponds to the authorities and the coalition in power. That's the big problem with respected colleagues and colleagues. Why have we lost the chance of political consensus and the control mechanism in the Croatian Parliament? And they're wondering today, colleagues and colleagues, what kind of results will our debate ultimately produce? Whether the director will simply listen to all of this to his associates and continue to know that he has the support of the ruling majority, knowing that he has political protection and knowing that he has a political mentor. On HRT we witnessed suicides, cancellations if anyone reported it, disregarding the findings of the competent Media Committee and here and the Croatian Parliament who asked for further information and did not receive them. We have information and the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council that they are not provided with adequate data, we have a situation that you have turned the first round of the HRT election into a show program by hiring leaders who have never led such a kind of show. It is only after certain interventions of the public that this is somewhat mild. It's a responsibility the HRT must bear. The quality of the third and fourth programs is mentioned here, is that the fourth program you transferred to the Parliament transfer and you interrupt every hour of the news? How is it possible, Mr. Chief Director, for the director of the program, that you hire a man who was your opponent in the election for the head director and that part of the job you don't want or don't want to do for you? Whose program does he implement that didn't pass the election or your Mr. Director who passed the election? And I'm saying that you're not selected for the program, you're just doing that political support you got here at the Croatian Parliament. You have a TV show. Why is there no one there from the representatives of the Croatian opposition, any party to say what they think about it? Why is the "I love Croatia" show off and the English name and title shows are being introduced? Who's that bothering? Could anyone have learned something ugly from that? We say this because, in this tone because we care, because it is one of the capital institutions to which neither you nor your associates have the right and it is not God's day like this Croatian Parliament is given to God, but it is also our responsibility for this institution and for you colleagues and colleagues from the majority. If you're wondering where you can start with a political consensus, in cooperation with an opposition that could last ten years, here's your first chance. Let's run together if we need a new amendment to the Croatian Radio Television Act and set up a political consensus. We're fighting for an institution that's been carrying national identity for decades, despite everything. Let us respect the copyright of our artists, but not the way to conclude contracts with HDS ZAMP three years in advance as with anyone else. And in such a way that the same contract falls twice at the Supervisory Board's session and then is voted afterwards. What made the members of the Supervisory Board change their minds? When and how? Is this how investment is going to be run, what you said to Mr. Director in the future? Who will implement them and how transparent? If you look at the list of conflicts of interest, then please allow our great concern on this matter. We're all saying this because, not because we're dealing with politics, but with a desire to make it better. Once we've got the theme of media, public houses, public institutions, we'll take it off the agenda. Dear Mr. Director, if you are already boasting that you have won Croatian broadcasting this year, then we must really agree with those colleagues who say that savings is not the main principle of Croatian broadcasting. Then it asks if it's already achieved saving that more... in production because this segment of Croatian broadcasters draws a complete domestic audiovisual industry that has over 3 hundred small companies that employ people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is your function, and as, if you want to be an economic operator in the Republic of Croatia who has the possibility to invest in individual segments and that should be your responsibility. And if you're already saving so well, then open negotiations to pay and part of the tax debt that you've done away with with the negotiations in this way and return some of the money to the Croatian budget. We all know very well how many needs and how many Croatian citizens and citizens need. I hope that at least part of what we've been saying will be adopted. We hope so. So far, that experience has not taught us. We certainly won't stop talking like that. We're not afraid of private lawsuits, we're not afraid of boycotts in information shows, we're not afraid of editorial censorship, so let's see who's gonna give the future a right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102189	A small record of 15 replicas. The first nine are on the Sun Head. Branko Vuksic will begin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102190	Dear colleagues Glavak, and you spoke and your colleague spoke what was said before, the ratings of Croatian broadcasting is not the most important... Obedience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Except for what your colleague of the information program said. To be relevant, the audience needs to accept you. The audience has to watch. So you're quoting what's being watched. It is alarming that no one on Croatian television has turned on red light precisely because of the information programme. Of course we're not afraid of censorship on Croatian television because if we were afraid, we wouldn't talk about this. Those who fear may be afraid still, but we must not be afraid of it. The question you asked is travel. I don't mind if Croatian broadcasters travel, record reports, see what they do in the neighborhood every day, what they do on other continents. But there are no items, there are no shows, the question is who travels, who irons the cards, how money is spent, that's the question. What festivals do you go to, who goes to these festivals, who travels, who goes to see technique, how much does it cost, and is it all expensive? And then cut the correspondence and cut the press first. Before, also why "I love Croatia" was abolished, the host in "I love Croatia" laughed from a great Mr. Milk Sparemblek. He didn't know who Milko Sparemblek was. Because Croatian television has done everything possible to get two Goran Navojec and Rene Bitorajac leaders out there doing a great show, and it was a great show. But now they've brought her to a beggar stick, contentally, because they've brought in inadequate leaders who don't know who Milko Sparemblek is that it's a disgrace to Croatian television, that's where he should have been replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102191	Time. One small statistic before replying to the replica. Of these 15 replicas, 9 of them come from the HDZ Club. ... /The noise in the hall./... Answer, Sunny Head. ... /The noise in the hall./... Statistics. Sunhead. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102193	I'm asking members of the HDZ Club to allow the Sunny Head to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You in the manner of good speaker and statisticians are very successful in holding a session. So, fellow Vuksic, the program is the final product of television and that is what people ultimately consider a television product. It's a program. And it's true that people should travel and I don't mind, but it's questionable what we delivered for those trips. What is not good, and what I failed to say in my debate is gooing some media content. If we're going to compliment the Third Program, if we say the Fourth is an unwanted child, but then we can't say culture will be on the Third, culture won't be on the First. Look at the BBC example. BBC all creators sit in one hall, one room however you like, culture is equal to the most important news of the day that Parliament was doing or what the president of the state was doing. It must not be placed in its own home, it must have equal status and place in the program as well as everything else. That's what this is about. What's not good, we don't have a good programme for young people, the educational programme doesn't have enough support, and all politics sees is through the prism of an information program that's not good. But the information program is the only measure compared to commercial television, everything else public service would have to meet in accordance with the government contract, and that's what Mr. Director did to a sufficient extent. And fellow Vuksic for the end, it is unfortunate that, for example, we do not have any film co-production of any Croatian film in 2013, so there was no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102195	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102196	Thank you very much. My fellow Glavak, but that's why we have a black and white world now, so we're gonna watch it, but good. You were talking about pay amounts that are actually a secret to all citizens, even though parliamentary salaries, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, are not secrets. It has been published precisely on the sides of the Ministry, the Parliament, etc. HRT is a garden for itself that cannot be entered and seen their salaries, but data is obtained however. So you can see that the pay ratio on HRT is those shown, with no annexes that exist even more secret or secret annexes, so the ratio is minimal and the one that pays and is the most larger than 6:1. I come from health care, from medicine, as a surgeon. Surgeon and nurse, so the SSS and VSS with specialization has the highest ratio of 2:1 so in healthcare, in medicine. 2 or 2.5. On HRT, this ratio is a minimum of 6:1 and with annexes comes much more. In addition, the ease of dispensing is surpassed by the party's "appropriate appearance, save others", which do not save comrades. This is evident for example by Karoline Vidović Kristo and for example by Nada Prkačin and others who are not even in this journalistic brand but ended in suicide in HRT, with everything you've already said. So, after a brief procedure on behalf of the people as they used to say, fired, fired from HRT, and then dragged those who were alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102197	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, we will turn out to be constantly questioning and we are very interested in how many salaries on this HRT, however, this is one information that has been absolutely unreachable to the Croatian public for 10 years for unknown reasons. Why is it that all officials, why everyone who receives from the state budget or citizens of the Republic of Croatia and 1 kuna, must give an indication to the public how much their income is. Does it really have to be a secret? It must not be a secret, it must be publicly available, it should be on the HRT website available to all. It can't be a secret. The problem, however, is that you are replacing 40 editors, leaving them with the same editorial salary or the same coefficient for countless months. Well, then you change the new 10, so there's a number of months left for them, and that same salary, or if we don't stay, we don't know. But for so long as we don't know, we're free to speculate and think about it, and it seems that's the case. And then, for unknown reasons, an unknown number of associates are re-engaged on HRT, at least so says the plan for this year, that they will be hired through the agency. Well, I guess they're not gonna clap for six million kunas, the ones that are in the studio because otherwise nobody would clap on themselves. I mean, you're welcome. And so in the long run, so we're always about money. Yes, money drives the world, but on HRT, politics seems to be a little bit better turning this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102199	A new replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102200	I don't know if I'd call you a vice president or a statistic, but I guess that's at the same time. My colleague Glavak, so in order to resolve these pay concerns, I think it would be best if we made a public call through HRT to the lady who is the Commissioner for Information. His name is Mrs. Anamaria Musa, so if he's watching HRT at all, we call for an answer whether it's possible that a public institution is hiding information about the salaries of its employees. Is this even in line with the laws and is it possible that this is happening in a democratic country? And speaking of democratic countries then it is no secret that Mr. Radman was the last thing I remember, perhaps he would correct me, one of the last directors in the communist times of then-dating television Zagreb, which was the main instrument of the Agit propa communist party. It's no secret. But what's the problem? The problem is that it was in East Germany after the unification of the democratic state institution in Germany would probably have been prosecuted and would not have allowed it to be in that place ever again. Had it been in Poland, they would have also prosecuted him and wouldn't have allowed him to be in that position in the democratic system. If he had been to Hungary, the same would have happened to him. It didn't happen to him in Croatia. We can deal with it and say ok. There was no lustration in Croatia, we did not set ourselves up in the right way towards those who were propaganda the communist totalitarian regime. But what is worst of all is, in my opinion, a statement made by Mr. Radman on the issue of conflict of interest. He said if the Committee told me that I was in conflict of interest I would resign. As far as I can remember, that's how it was. No, it wasn't like that? I remember that's how it was, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102201	The replica corresponds to the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Matušić's totalitarianity is seen in some ways today in many segments of the Croatian Radio-Television programme. You've touched a conflict of interest. Yes, this dilemma has not been resolved yet. We know with real estate it's one way or another on HRT, so they gave up real estate for the debt, and we still don't know what happened to that real estate that was controversial in this conflict of interest because that SDP hotel, or the Communist party, was bought, paid, who remained in debt only to the sky. But we're going back to the scale of things. A lot is not available to the public. We don't have to, it seems to me to be calling from a pay phone or from a meeting of the Commissioner for Information. We are repeatedly, and here is Mr. Director here and he's listening to our cries again and I'm sure Mr. Radman will finally meet us and deliver no coefficients so he sent us K1 – 1.7 two plus three and that's your pay. No one alive knows what it is. But anyway, we're gonna get an answer to our question. What is equally non-transparent, and what we also have to worry about is that the restructuring programme that has been talked about here quite a bit today and which should have been a base or a basis for something advanced on Croatian broadcasting is not transparently published anywhere, so in fact we can't even evaluate it as such or as such assessments because we couldn't actually read it, nor see what is exactly in which segment and when it will happen. It was published for a short time, and then, untraceably, it disappeared into the cracks of the virtual world.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102203	Now we'll hear the replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the truth of our public television is a mirror, a reflection of our society, and today our colleagues said it was actually a toy in the hands of the ruling. So it's surprising that there are no government representatives at this session today, and it's even worse that we didn't get government opinion on this report from the HRT Supervisory Board, so I'm curious why.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102205	The answer of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, buddy Babic, you've noticed. So, we received one opinion, and this is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report on the business of Croatian Broadcasting for 2013 where the Government is also calling for comprehensive measures to be implemented on the restructuring of HRT and financial consolidation and long-term sustainable business, and the need for haste in further implementation of the restructuring and consolidation measures of HRT, and on this view the Government wrote that here at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and working bodies will be Andrea Zlatar Violić, our dear minister who never comes to the Parliament. Then, Professor Borislav Shipush, who always comes, but didn't send him today. And some other people who are listed here on behalf of the government. But here's Mr. Radman, I guess he's the personal envoy of our dear Prime Minister Milanovic because I'll just remind him that when [[/Intruder Stazic: Wait a minute. Wait a minute.]] [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102207	Easy, easy. Comrade Shucker slowly, don't hold the session. When you're in charge of the session, then you'll be in it and in it you'll be in charge of it. Like this. You here present your report and it is absolutely unacceptable to throw MPs when they speak. I'm asking you not to do it again. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm sorry that no one from the government came to explain the government's opinion, and I'm just as sorry that we don't have an opinion on the report presented by the Supervisory Board because it would be instructed to have someone and the government's representatives join us here and that we can hear what the government actually thinks about all this. I repeat again, Croatian Democratic Community Club Yes, you took some away from me when you spoke to Mr. Radman. [[Intruding Stazic: There will be no time for this repetition so Branka Juričev Martinchev will speak his replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102209	Dear colleagues Glavak, you said that Croatian broadcasting should be a public service, that Croatian broadcasting is paid by citizens. And then on January 11th of this year, on that television that should be public paid by our citizens goes the transfer of the inauguration of our president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, and he starts with the words, "Alpha female who can shoot, milk a cow and drive a tractor." It's embarrassing! It underestimated and insulted not only our president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, underestimated all of our women, underestimated all of them million and 115 thousand voters, and then I wonder whose TV is it, and who should pay for it? And today, 45 days after that day from HRT, we have an announcement about an internal procedure that will be conducted against that host. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102210	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102211	Thank you very much. My colleagues agree with you, sexism, degradation, absolute disrespect for the woman above all, or the functions of the President of the Republic, it happened in the transfer of the inauguration of the first Croatian president. I'm surprised we didn't hear that an example of the Commissioner for Gender Equality came out, and I'm really surprised, there's no vote. And she was usually very agile when maybe the opposite side had to be defended. I don't mean men. What we keep saying at the declarative level is that men and women are equal, we know very well that they are not. Because just as well, some excess or verbal escapades wouldn't happen to women as well as men, and we have to admit that. So that's the degree of democracy we've achieved so far, that's the degree of equality we have so far. We will work on it, however, and we expect the same way that institutions are announced when there is a need for it and not only at the declarative level. As far as the sanctions are concerned, as far as we can tell from the media, it seems they will be, I think someone has played very hard in the HRT Programme, allowing such a shameful way to monitor the inauguration of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102212	Thank you. When I warned you about my colleague, Radman, I forgot to remind you that you can come here as a promoter for a pay phone, you have the right to speak after every speaker and after the replicas presented. So we now have a whole series of replicas here that we'll continue to stand at 15.00 hours after the break. And then you can pick up your word after that. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first one's a respected Djurjica twilight. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102213	We're continuing the debate. We continue with the replicas for the debate of our colleague, Sunny Glavak. It's Đurjica twilight's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Glavak, here I am now, I was at a meeting to receive students of one and now listen well to the principal, it is one class of 40 young people from high school. And I asked them how many of you are watching HRT? Of the 40s, he raised one hand and said you know what we only watch when there's a game and a young lady said she was watching the waxes. However, colleagues Glavak, those who certainly can't even look at HRT and pay the same fee are 13,000 deaf or weak people. That's where the young ones are involved. And what I was hoping for and what really hurt me when you were talking about some 10 million kuna postal services is that these people are disabled to follow the program not only fun, maybe football and I can't, fun I can't, the political program can't, children can't watch cartoons on the first, or on the second program because they're usually synchronised to Croatian, there's no title down there but there's no professional communication translators. What should be today, so I'd say already the civilization level of communication, but that's the least we can expect from HRT to enable and provide people, deaf people or a weak translator, or a communication expert translator. Now we've got the law on it. We have 52 of them which is not enough,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102215	Thank you, colleague. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, you spoke of your encounter with the students, and exactly what the children say. I think this data is also known to the HRT people. So in December, the Agency for Electronic Media did a study that I was already talking about in part of the 18-54 population, among the 10 most watched shows is only one Croatian television. Not taking into account, of course, the entertainment program and everything that goes away from the information program. As far as translation into sign language is concerned, I agree and appeal here, I believe in the name of the colleagues that are not present, because it is obviously the club of our colleagues from the SDP, but I am appealing to you not enough that only one news should be accompanied by a sign language, it is insufficient. These are equal members of our society, who have them according to the latest data about 13,000 and they also deserve to be informed of the Constitution and according to everything. It may be too ambitious to ask, for example, that everything that happens here in the Croatian Parliament is interpreted in sign language, but an absolutely central informative emissions that will now be in the longer term must be available to that population of our citizens, they must be equal members of our society. Because when it comes to paying for a television subscription, they don't get asked if they can consume that program in their fullness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102217	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, he's gone. Ivan Shuker replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Glavak, you mentioned in your debate the government's relationship, the Prime Minister, the director of HRT, etc. However, I cannot help but be impressed when I look at the government's opinion on the report on HRT's work, I simply think of the government's report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and sports television. There, all government experts broke down to convince parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public that someone had done something illegal to the Croatian Olympic Committee on sports television or whatever it was called. But here, when I read this report from the Government, I can't find these figures in the director's report either, and I can't find them in this famous report from the Supervisory Board, because that's the most conspiracies I've ever seen in my life on financial reporting. So since I mentioned legal services, on page 55, there's a very interesting report that says that 109 million were charged, and then that 109 million is divided into expenses and says that lawyers belong to 41 million, then the other court costs are 13 million, the cost of the postage is 2 million and 448 thousand kuna. Now, I'm wondering if those who did these are lawyers, were they sending their own cargo mails or were they sending mails to HRT's cargo? But I assure you two lawyers with a legal exam and let them have a premium salary, let them have a salary, and who's the headmaster won't even cost 2% of how much the legal services cost. But I repeat how much is the program for Croats outside Croatia? Not even 20% of how much we give for legal services for something that's out of every sense, but I repeat, very interesting is the opinion of our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102219	Thank you. Answer. My fellow Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, of course you're with numbers, maybe some aren't, maybe that's how the report was made to be people with numbers on you, so they don't find what you found. It's just one of the amounts that stings and it's true, and I hope we get an answer to that, for years the huge amounts are paid for the legal services. How much this ultimately contributes to achieving or strengthening the financial stability of HRT is very questionable, as you yourself have said. However, you have also found another item for postal services that is beyond any sense, so nearly 13 million kunas are now available. What we didn't mention, as of course, is that people have to travel, as counterpart Vuksic said, people have to make a phone call. But you know what? On fixed phones, 2.5 million kuna is spent and 2 million 700,000 kunas are spent on mobile phones. So, okay, you should call the guests, you should make arrangements with them, but my people, can you see a little, can you see a little what's going on there? You phone all day long, travel around the world, hire law teams, buy cars, only for Leasing are rental costs vehicles are scheduled for this year at 8 million kuna. Well, then, reroute some money. Five minutes ago, we told you what you could reroute him to. So HRT anyway when it's talking about restructuring then draw a line somewhere else. We've talked a lot about wages here, it's not just that. So a whole series of costs for which we don't know how justified they are, and we don't really know what their purpose is, is in the grip of these reports, in all their additions, complements, in the end we barely got what we were presented for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102221	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, he's gone. Now, at the presentation of colleagues, we have Jasen Mesic, moving on to replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, he's gone. Ante Babic. ... Wait a minute, buddy Babic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I have you written down by my colleague, Marasovic, the 15th replica, last to be presented by his colleague Jasen Mesic. ... Can we colleagues appreciate that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. ... Okay. Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you're replicating your colleague Glavak. Here's a colleague of Marasovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102222	I'm also Mesic, but I'll bring it all together in two minutes. Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues, Glavak, you mentioned the inauguration and that scandal about it. It's for the resignation of the director of television and we're not going to be bad, I don't think the director of television determined who's going to go there but it's safe for that person to get off the TV, she can't go on screens anymore. And I advise the principal to put her away because otherwise it might be a question of his responsibility and I believe he's not, that he's clean, but that person is not able to do it and she can't go on small screens anymore. And why is the ratings of Croatian television falling? Not that she can't attract attention, but she's annoying the people. Well, there's going to be 3 percent ratings if you don't respond to TV drastically to such a thing, it's unseen and outrageous. That these women's organizations and B.A.B.E. are now active. Feministic, so they should raise the country, if I said what Elizabeth Gojan said on television, they would call me a sexist, a primitive, this and that, there would be no place in the country. She said nothing. An unprecedented scandal, an unprecedented miracle in Croatia. And now I'm going to Mr. Mesic if he's here, is, you've been looking, constantly crying for some consensus... Here I am now my scarf to wipe out the tears, no consensus to Mesic, you are a naive young cat on the roof. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, because the president of the party and the government told me or them. Not in a bad way, not at all, I mean some kind of extermination in a political sense, you have no one to make a consensus with. And he said it honestly, Milanovic honestly said, he is such a structured person, he thinks, we have a political option. We believe that this furniture is unable to run neither television nor state, we need to change the furniture. There's no compromise with the other side because they're clearly telling me or them. ... It's dangerous but honest,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102223	Thank you, colleague Marasovic. Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Marasovic, may not be as colourful as you have depicted it, but what you are right about public service would be expected at least three things objectivity, impartiality and credibility. So that's where HRT loses the battle. HRT just doesn't believe it. Back to the beginning of today, HRT stopped being quoted, HRT has no people on the format. HRT editors are simply not trusted not because there are no good ones there, which there are no high-quality journalists, however, it is questionable in the finals what we end up looking at on Croatian TV. And I also received information, for example, that today there will be no live coverage in Croatia from the Croatian Parliament and it always is. So is that possible? Has anyone decided not to report in Croatia live today about what we've been talking about all morning? It is that this will not change the nation, that this will not change our economic situation and will not change the number of unemployed but is it possible that someone has banned it from reporting from the Croatian Parliament in Croatia live today? I'm going to stand in the defense of the young, not so young cat of mesic, but it might be better seen from the roof, so some colleagues there are horizons, maybe the perspective is different, and there may be a consensus when we're in power again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102225	You can't even share a debate with your colleague, Mesic. You don't have the right to reply to a replica twice. ... You don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Kola Marasović responded to the replica of his colleague Glavak and could not contact your... No, no, no. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you to tell me, colleague Shuker, the Rules of Procedure which article regulates it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102226	Mr. Chairman, we are today discussing two points of the agenda and each item of the agenda, according to our Rules of Procedure, when it is debated and held as if one were discussed. The second thing, Mr. Chairman, don't nod your head, it was claimed by fellow Stazic, came Vice President Zgrebec and we realized that it was a practice that was constantly in the Parliament. So when two points of the agenda are discussed, or two of them are debated, then each one can have a replica. And it's two points of the agenda, not one. This is a united debate and therefore has the right to replicate at each point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102227	Thank you, fellow Shuker. I was just asking you to tell me which article of the Rules of Procedure regulates it. ... It doesn't read that way. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's another thing that's allowed, I'm just pointing out which article of the Rules of Procedure regulates it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't care about that, pal. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next replica, now for the presentation of fellow Mesic. Domagoj Hajdukovic again, gone. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102228	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Mesic, I understand your concern, concern for those journalists who are being fired because they don't really represent those criteria of what they think and represent the principal. But it should also be said here, also loudly, that there are those regimeal journalists who, however, need to be warned about the entire public, are actually the ethical codes of the HRT, and in particular of Article 24, which states that a journalist or other worker in a chain of realization must not, by tone, by sound, by gesture, by gesture, by image, by sign or mark, show his or her propensity or by belonging to a particular political, economic, interest or other social group or organisation. The journalist must avoid emotions that could lead to the conclusion of bias, and it remains that a journalist must not have his own position or give priority to one of the opposing parties and must do nothing that might create an impression of one-sidedness. The journalist also says this in this ethical code, on the basis of collected and presented essential facts, views and opinions, must enable the viewer and listener to shape their own views and opinions. At the same time, it is not allowed to mix the form of news or commentary reports, and all comments should be clearly presented and specifically announced as an authorial position. In any case, when you look at our information-political shows of HRT and Croatian Radio, there are actually more and more shows in which a cheerleader tends to their leaders according to a specific one, and in this case it is known which political option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102229	Answer, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102230	Dear counterpart Babić, you have well noted some of these obligations in the ethical code, and let us just remember what Article 6 and Article 7. The principles of programming can be noted: respect and encourage pluralism of political, religious, secular and other ideas and allow the public to be familiar with these ideas. HRT shall not represent in its programmes the views or interests of a particular political party, as well as any other individual political, religious, secular and other views and interests. I'll tell you what happened to me personally. Mrs. Journalist Krmpotić, whom I had never personally had the opportunity to meet, we protested at the press when she was fired for criticising the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Opacic, according to her statements. She argues that on the basis of the intervention she is away from HRT after we have called as a parliamentary representative of the press, we have protested against this way, which HRT replied to me that I am putting pressure on HRT and on the programme, meddling in the autonomy of HRT, doing political pressure. For protesting the dismissal of a journalist I've never worked with in my life. So I don't have any particular motive. I am accused, through a Croatian statement, of doing political pressure, and not of those on whose interventions the journalist is away from HRT. Where's the political pressure if you're fighting for a journalist to survive on TV? According to who? That's how your colleague does it, no matter what you're quoting exactly... But I'm replicating you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So no matter what you're saying, that's exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102231	Thank you. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mesic, you mentioned numerous affairs that have actually thrown a very strong shadow into HRT's work lately, and one of them is the case of the cancellation of journalist Karolini Vidović Kristo. The epilogue of this affair can be seen in today's criminal application submitted by the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff against Goran Radman, director of HRT, as they state because of the terror committed against employees by applying a arbitrary anti-constitutional and illegal code of ethics for journalists, creative staff, for abuse of position and authority and for violation of constitutional provisions. It is not only the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff who responded to this affair that we suggest to the Director that it would be good to interrupt it in a way that simply brings back the journalist to work, but also appealed to the trade unions of HRT, the Croatian Helsinki Committee and the Croatian Journalist Society. So it's obvious that the ethical code for journalists and creative staff is a harsh violation, and it's obviously also a violation of some other laws. It is not good to discuss Croatian television in this way at all. If I were you, I'd resign without thinking, believe me. When a bunch of negative and affaires and negative contexts come together in a place of peace I'd resign if I were you. And second thing, here's the time, so I don't have time to replicate anymore. I assume you'll answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102233	Thank you. My colleague Mesic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102234	Dear colleague Matušić, exactly what you said about the journalist and not only the Vukovar Defence Staff submitted this application and asked the journalist to return to work. And unfortunately, it's not the only case. If it were the only one, if it wasn't happening in continuity all the time, and it started with a lot of editors canceling during the very change in Croatian broadcasting, then maybe they wouldn't have the right to say it either. Here, today we're discussing it with some hope that things will... Because I don't believe that on this appeal of yours the principal will resign, but still that something will be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps the chairman of the Supervisory Board will call a session of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board to discuss the potential adverse effects for Croatian broadcasting that can be created because of contracts concluded with... Let's say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would already be a step forward if some things were brought to the cleaners regardless of what we are and you are engaged in the same culture. We are always for the protection of the copyright of our artists etc. But in a transparent way and an adequate way. I would like to no longer discuss and discuss the conflict of interest in Croatia's broadcasting that we now have a situation for the elected director of his opponent from the competition to appoint the director of the programme. Many are ordered in foreign productions, while at the same time not adequately supporting domestic audiovisual production, and I am very interested in whether there will be potential conflicts of interest that will soon come out. We say this preventively because we said we wanted good, we want Croatian television to really be the way it should be and to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102235	Thank you. The interpretation of parliamentary practice by which you colleagues Shucker now have the right to replication and apology of counterpart Mesic. Here's your colleague Shuker. Although suggestions should be made, the Rules of Procedure should be defined more precisely, because, according to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102236	Thank you very much. But we should have a little more confidence in those who sit there all the time and who know what's going on in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102237	Comrade Shuker, it's not about trust, it's about reading the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102238	All right, all right. My colleague Mesic, reading the Supervisory Board's report, I have to say that I've never seen anything more inconsistencies without any methodology in my life. And now I'm asking myself one question if someone deliberately served some issues to the Supervisory Board that he wasn't dealing with that job that he should be dealing with, because when you look at this report, then you'll see a bunch of things that just don't belong. Because if the Director submits a financial report of the half-yearly and annually, it is known exactly which data he must subsidise to the Supervisory Board and then that report is an integral part of this report. However, when you look at what is written in this report of the Supervisory Board, then you may find it no wonder why these things happen on HRT. Because the Supervisory Board does not consider problems and phenomena that occur negative on HRT, it does not speak here of any credit responsibilities that the government warns about why the loan was raised. The second thing is very interesting is this transaction with the state and how it has in general affected the positive result. It's the office of the Supervisory Board. Whether some contracts are signed three-year-old with some strange institutions is the same thing that goes into service or not. And this is the task of the HRT to respond first and foremost to our parliamentary representatives, and then to the Croatian public. You don't have it all, but you have a bunch of stupidity inconsistencies here. And that's why I think that maybe as a club, we should suggest a conclusion that simply the Croatian Parliament makes a decision that we will no longer discuss such materials because they are below each level, because we have appointed these people to be our extended arm. And maybe if they had responded to some things, there would have been far less dissatisfaction with the policy of directors and other people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102239	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102240	Dear Mr. Shucker, these questions you ask yourself I cannot answer you. So you can see that we can't figure out what the pay amounts are, let alone someone to explain to us the millions of transactions that go through Croatian broadcasting. We are in no condition, regardless of the demands we had through the Media Committee, to get that answer, let alone this information about these things, about which things you agree on. Why is that and why we're not being heard about it? I don't have an adequate answer for you. Both the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council have repeatedly been instructed in their documents that they cannot obtain any information from the Croatian Radio Television Directorate for their work. They write it in their reports, and they should get it and in some ways serve them for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102241	Thank you. It's on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102242	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. As every year, the report was financial, whether Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmeed to pay particular attention to representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which is also normal because it is actually the only medium in the Republic of Croatia in which MPs and MPs have the opportunity to discuss the financial and also the programme part of the work. This means that between Croatian Radio and Television and this House there is an important link that results in part of the shared responsibility. Responsibilities for quality, responsibilities for financial assumptions of work and of course responsibilities for fundamental values that HRT should promote, advocate and practice in its work. What we record this year is when the financial aspect of business is in spite of the administration's efforts to consolidate this business is that Croatian radio and television face difficulties when it comes to funding, especially when it comes to restoring the necessary resources for work. And that means restoring what the cameramen should be working with, what they should work with on Croatian Radio and TV where HRT is rarely late for commercial TV when it comes to reporting cars, when it is the second overall equipment of this national media. If I'm wrong, I'll be happy to hear a different opinion from the board, first of all from the principal. If there is something that is the responsibility of the Parliament and him as legislators to create assumptions that this situation is changing for the better, then we would be happy to hear it from the administration. But if there is something that was in the responsibility of the administration that was the inherited thing or inherited problems that are not being changed, then of course we would be happy to hear what obstacles it is that this situation is actually still present on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV and how much it threatens to have Croatian television and radio doing those jobs that exist as a public service, as a public medium and how weak its objective competitiveness in the media space. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the program is concerned, I will start from what is closer to me in my profession, according to my academic campaign which we talked about on some earlier occasions here, which is a culture of speech on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV. Mr. Director, there's a lot of shit going on here against past times, but the culture of television speech until the '90s, phonetics, total grammar, the overall appearance of those who appear on television, especially among reporters, is incomparable with today's situation. And what is worst is some of them become a form of speech behaviour for others including media commercial but including those who are not media representatives or work in the media, but they understand it as a way of speaking in public space. Which is understandable. TV was always presented with a good book as a form of speaking or writing as well as a teacher at school, as well as a professor at the university. After all, as it should be with us who are here in the House, to some extent. Unfortunately, I will not mention anyone, nor anyone, but we have very fresh experiences in which they behave, in which the speech or speech statement is such that it is far from the elementary culture of public communication and is contrary to what we want with the Croatian language as a standard language, trained for public communication and if you can do anything to bring the speech and communication service into order to perform its function and that all those who appear in front of the screen pass the necessary education so that we do not have the experience we have. It's bad for our language, it's bad for our language culture and it's bad for HRT as the leading national house. I won't mention commercial television, I won't mention portals that don't have that obligation in the way that HRT has as a national media house. And we ask you to do this because we and here are sensitive when we get materials from individual proposings whose language is far from what it should be. This is of course true for the language of those who appear in the media space and are employed, are reporters, are journalists or are leaders within the television programme. Another thing I would like to say is the still present speech of intolerance and the elements of letting hate speak into public space, without any fences. Unfortunately, there's still that. And yet there is still no adequate regulatory mechanism that would clearly distinguish what is freedom of speech, which is contaminating public space with views and statements that are either insulting, or denying, or disabling the fundamental values of our Constitution, which is freedom, tolerance, national equality and political democracy. National television as in the case of language and in these matters must be, its programme must be in line with the fundamental values of the Constitution, not according to the conversation of this or that type of public, let alone this or that type of political party, let alone this or that type of group that can give themselves the right because they think they have the right to speak in a language that is not a language of tolerance, which is not a language of pluralism and which is unfortunately a language of hatred. We would, in the rest of the different types of communication that we had, on the other hand, point to that and point to that again here. We had this debate at a time when the administration had a different composition, when the editorship had a different composition before the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Information. Not one of them was you, but the debates were earlier, which means that the problem lasts longer and unfortunately no solutions are found, or there is no significant progress when it comes to the resolution of what is allowed from what is not allowed. Taking pictures of individual people in a negative or positive light, qualified certain people with words they don't deserve whether they're negative or whether they're positive must find their own measure. The place of prejudice in public information and public opinion cannot be and must not be according to either party or ethnic or any other criteria. We're different on luck not too much. In other societies there are much greater differences, but these differences must be respected, they will be respected by establishing one place from which to assess what is not allowed. Croatian public television must have an active debate on this. I don't know if the ethical councils are just put together to discuss what a journalist or not is doing, but the program has to be discussed, it has to help people who work in media space to find a measure of what is being played into the ether, which is being played into media space and which is not being played into media space, and which is not being played into media space. And finally, what seems to me to be particularly important and that's where I'm going to connect both points, one is financial, the other is programmable. There is a danger, Mr. Director, that as it happened to Vjesnik to disappear from the media scene as the last printed medium owned by this state, as a public medium, there is a danger of this happening to Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. Whoever is the actor who will participate in this and contribute to it and whoever is some kind of bankruptcy director will be held to a level playing field in front of this public both in front of this people and in front of his interest. And you should do everything to make different privatisation interests and which have already significantly weakened HRT significantly, because as in some other cases, what is common, now the state and the public so happens on HRT. This process must be stopped and here in front of this high house it is necessary to say what needs to be done to protect this position of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television in the media area as a national strategic wealth, as a national strategic interest. For those of us who have a responsibility to the public, for us who are co-creators of the public, for those who make decisions in the public trial, we need a medium that will not be a means of blackmail, which will not be a means to achieve this or that influence of this or that kind, we need a neutral medium that will respect political differences but that will protect constitutional values and when we do not protect them and what happens to us. And for this reason, it would be extremely important that if there are indications that the trend of the weakening of Croatian radio and television is either in financial or programming terms and we recognize some of the elements, the attempt is not on me or on any other representative or advocate that we also value programming schemes. We can only value the values that come true in the program. But programming schemes are an important part of the production strategy and you will assess how dangerous it is and how dangerous it is to take risks with individual programming schemes. Programme schemes alone without any other assumptions of agility, speeds in information, how it is possible that Croatia has worked and television that has long been the most equipped, which today has better assumptions in the archive, better assumptions in the frames than others, that it is always later and that it comes for later information even to the prime minister and not only to the MPs than we do, but what you come for. Croatian television. How is that possible? If I were the headmaster, Mr. Principal, I'd get on my feet if it happened to me and someone would tell me and I'd tell him from my own experience, and probably 60% of the MPs in my experience can tell you here. It won't be repaired by a software scheme, it has to be changed by agility but now we're already entering a space where I, as a representative, shouldn't actually discuss it but I... I needed to touch because I care for this medium, that national strategic instrument to be preserved and to be in line with what will be our constitutional values but at the same time with the protection of serious political pluralism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because how important our decision-making here, as important as our discussions are, is the more important public policy. Because they can sometimes have much greater power, much greater influence in how people will choose, how total decisions will be made and Croatian radio and television must become a visible example of how to protect neutrality and leave space for citizens to decide as rationally as possible about their choice. And as much as possible is less contaminated than those who can advocate this kind of attitude, politics, feelings or beliefs. Here, Mr. Vice President, I am obliged to thank my colleague, Mladen Novak, who has given me his place because of my obligation in another place outside of Zagreb and, of course, thank you to those who have listened to me, I hope that there are not too many replicas and that I will have enough time to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102243	Thank you, too. Let's go right now with the replicas. Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102244	You mentioned that we have joint responsibility for Croatian broadcasting. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this shared responsibility. It may be carried by the parliamentary majority. If the 2010 law had stayed, we'd all be together. This is what those who have set up such a legal framework bear. The more on all the warnings, all the appeals, all the well-intentioned criticism, all the suggestions have always come a negative answer. Why would they bear responsibility in such a context? Why would someone who has warned about this for 3 years, who warned and then held a shared responsibility? And where does anyone have the right to ask someone else to do so if at the same time no suggestion is accepted under this framework of responsibility? Who's going to convince me that it wasn't a direct political blow to joint responsibility if you want to? No one and never. Why should we bear the burden of something and the responsibility for something that we have continued for three years to see that it is not going well and we are constantly warning it and it is being ignored. We don't want to be held accountable. That's what I wanted to tell you since you said that we here in the Croatian Parliament should share a shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102245	Thank you. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102246	Dear fellow Mesic, when I spoke of joint responsibility, I didn't mean party responsibility, nor was I referring to the current majority or the last majority or possible majority. I meant the responsibility of this House. If in this sense we can discuss or things have gone so far that this House no longer exists, there are only parties and divisions that exist among the parties. If that's the condition, then tell me. And if you're unhappy with the legal solution then let's discuss it here. But I will tell you where the responsibility is, the responsibility is also in that place, so your dissatisfaction and my possible guilt. If you did something, I would consider it my responsibility because I am your friend in this House, because I bear that responsibility and when I do not vote like you, if you can understand how I view this Parliament. And where can we have responsibility? We can have the responsibility to protect Croatia from ourselves and even more to protect it from others. What's been going on these past few days? TV is under pressure because it was reporting one way or another, from this or that event. And sanctions are expected on various occasions without a prior serious debate. We must be the ones who will protect our committees, our debates in Parliament from the pressures that will come from our parties, from our leaders, from our prime ministers or from anyone else. But also those who are not chosen, who think they have the right to preserve what they consider sacred values. It's the meaning of mutual responsibility. And I invite you to share it. I invite you to share your concerns about the law that you consider to be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102247	Thank you. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Pupovac, I agree with you that when we talk about people who appear on television, above all the leaders of various shows and informative and others that we should respect the most standards and that Croatian radiotelevision there is indeed called on to be very strict, very strict. Unfortunately, we have a situation, I won't mention names, but you'll probably recognize and know what I'm talking about, when you turn on one of the information shows, you get the feeling that the show manager is going to jump out of the screen, that he's going to bite you, literally, you get that feeling. And of course you're running off that program, running off to some other information program. Not only in terms of expression, not only in terms of the highest standard of Croatian language but also in appearance, the way it is pronounced. So it's all meant by standards. And of course, if such things happen, it certainly gives you the expectation of watching such shows being significantly less than some other utility television.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102249	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Pupovci, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matušić, I am pleased to share the same concern when it comes to the state of language culture on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV. And it is really important to realize that it is good to have awareness of Croatian, but we must also have the beauty of using Croatian. We need to have a relationship with him in every possible communication situation when it comes to public space and public media. This is unfortunately not the case with Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. These people who didn't get a chance to be taught aren't guilty. These journalists and journalists, these reporters are not to blame because they would learn from 3 months of instruction what is necessary to learn, but they did not get this opportunity for what reason and it is a sign of disrespect for what we consider to be a special value in Croatia, which is respect for standards, its beauty and its application, and that is possible. For this reason, Mr. Director, I repeat once again, it is extremely important that this mirror of public language such as HRT does not show such an ugly picture of the language we speak because it is not so ugly, on the contrary. It can be as beautiful as any other language can be. And as for some, we all have experience with media and journalists, different and some more aggressive, some more one-sided, some on one side or the other. But what is very important, I agree with you, is that there is no aggression in the public space, and that the public media does not promote any kind of aggression, and neither in the conduct nor in the expression of journalists, no matter who we talk to or how much they disagree with the talker. In that regard, I share an opinion with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102251	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, when we look at this report, then we have basically three segments that file some kind of report. One is the Director, the other is the Supervisory Board, and the third is the Government. Now in this government report, it's very interesting in the opinion that no one mentions that it's a dork. Let's go back for some of the things that are, which is financed by the Government by a billion and 200 million kuna, because we all forgot that according to the new law on HRT and that contract signed by the Government on a program that HRT has to implement because it signed the contract, that depends on the amount of the subscription. However, precisely because of the terrible report of this ill-conceived Supervisory Board, because of the government's opinion that was made like this, tell me what you'd say, now we're back in the language even though I don't really want to talk about it. When the material you're supposed to come from the Ministry of Culture had, says they have staff costs. Where is the Croatian staff when it comes to salaries? It's a document that came from the government. So a lot of those who should be preceded by the quality of expressions, by the quality of the report and ultimately they judge and judge various in the social, economic and political life of Croatia, when they come from materials then they should be.... And this all together when you look at it is very difficult for any representative in these materials to agree on a quality debate and bring any opinion, but I and you and me and other colleagues and viewers are asking who, by virtue of a billion-dollar contract and 200 million, is funded by the Croatian Government. Only HRT, and by contract there are clearly defined things. Is this report both by the Director and by the Supervisory Board and analysed by the Government in accordance with that contract? It's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102253	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Pupovci, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102254	Dear counterpart Schuker, the Croatian Government as you know, after reducing the share of HRT marketing, has taken the obligation to provide certain funds by agreement on the software content of Croatian Radio and Television to extract it from the space of total commercialisation. You are absolutely right, that money binds the government to a report that will be complete, that money obliges the government and that this medium will not be the last in obtaining exclusive information from the government's session and with regard to making statements by members of the government including the Prime Minister, not being the HRT last on the tail but being the first in that story or at least the same as others. And it also commits to HRT because it receives money that others do not get, not to be less competitive, less agile and less persistent in performing its function as it tries to perform another. And as for the memos you received, unfortunately I cannot share my concern with you both when it comes to expressions, and also when it comes to the scrupulousness of the analysis of the spending of these funds and how they relate and spend these funds on software content.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102255	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102256	Thank you very much. A fellow Pod to make a little joke, no one before Andrija Jark can be, there's no TV that can be in front of him in front of a house. God forbid any of us are but here we go. Namely, when you talk about language culture, about the standard of Croatian language, about the expressions that I'm trying to speak for, and I'm angry with the same kind of stuff when I hear those things that you have on Croatian TV, so when I hear the news and I'm some kind of bat that listens to the news at 1 o'clock, I don't sleep, and it says that the water polo game ended with four-four or that the handball game of Zagreb ended with a result of twenty-two-fourths, I still can't sleep after that. But when we talk about hate speech, you talked about it, so now you tell me if it's the director's decision, a direct decision to make to Mrs. Karolini Vidovic over three words she used in Article 15, trying to change the Ethics Code of Ethics to be fired from Croatian television. Namely, she stated, i.e. asked that in her work the public statements in which Croatian TV is presented journalists and... You can't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] political, secular, economic, religious and other belongings, and earlier it said that in any inventory as they say here, I will now begin a bit, so in any case, in any play, in any event, they must not highlight it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the journalist must not have his own private life, but he must all be 24 hours, so exactly what he says. Ethics code. When it tried to change, Mrs. Caroline was fired. So we're talking about hate speech or actions. And the third thing you said about the economic situation, but you didn't say until the end about the interesting groups that are going through the work of Croatian television, through the production of Croatian television you know for yourself that and you said that God forbid you let the western Croatian television in the difficulty of the West of Vjesnik. But here's too little time to explain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102257	Thank you. The answer to a Pupovac rep, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102258	Dear colleague, I am very pleased to share the same concern, and I did not expect otherwise when it comes to value, culture, excellentness of Croatian language in public language practice, because unfortunately not enough attention is paid. But there's one thing we can't agree on, and that's the case of the journalist you mentioned. If exactly what happened to us in public space, what kind of language the journalist was using, what kind of expression was she using, it's the opposite of that kind of language culture that we share. It's not just that my phonetics are right, so I don't have those disgusting... when most reporters reporting from the field say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not the only thing that bothers you, it's solved in a month's training. Everyone knows that on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV that spent more than 10 years. Here, present colleague Kosor is an example of how this could be done and how it was overcome. But when it comes to the use of words that here as Latins say horible... man can't imagine, let alone repeat, then it doesn't belong to someone who performs the duty of journalists as a public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem. And I'm not sure that the Directorate had any other space than to make that kind of decision especially after requesting a refuge in a place where such matters should not be sought for a refuge, let alone for forgiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102259	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102260	Thank you. So speaking of public speaking culture, you used a sentence of shit against old times. I don't know how much you've contributed to the culture of public space speech since the relapse of former times. That's how I feel about it. I have to admit, maybe that's the word you often use. I don't use it often, so it sounded a little weird to me and another to me. I'm not really an expert like you on language. However, we have an example on commercial televisions by a series of press leaders who are puking, shushing, speaking ill Croatian. I have a feeling that some have speech defects and so on, but their contributions, their shows are more watched than the Croatian Television Diaries because journalists speak immaculately. I think the journalists on HTV as far as I can see on the journal they speak excellently, they speak immaculately, but speak like robots. So, no emotions, no attitudes, no anything that can be honest with me as a viewer often attracts me. So they don't give a single bit of their identity or they're afraid to point out that identity, because somebody always does, and somebody doesn't like it, so they have problems if they point out. And on the other hand, I have to admit, when I watch HTV's journal and I see that behind the journalists from that transparent panel, someone sits there, talking on their cell phone and key on the computer, I think, "I wonder if that HRT doesn't have a studio where there'd be some kind of opaque panel behind the diaries that someone doesn't walk around behind. I switch to another program because it really gets on my nerves as some average viewer. I can't believe so many buildings that they don't have some kind of studio where we can look at these two people who talk to a man on the Dnevnik, but they're always walking, walking and talking on their cell phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102261	Thank you. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102262	As for your observations, the correct phonetic expression does not necessarily mean the attraction of the viewer. I totally agree, but it's that minimum condition for the public media, and then comes to... And that is, that upgrade is, of course, the persuasion that goes with the rhetoric of this kind of media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This requires a different kind of expert, not enough phonetics to do so, which requires public statements from rhetoricists, and it must also have them. He used to be at my university, Professor. Škaric was one of those who took special care of both the other and the third aspects. Today, I'm afraid there's no one to take care of it the way that the Dnevnik leader's statement, which would express, but there's also a matter of course the administration that decides who he's going to give to run the Dnevnik. It's a matter of editorials to decide who they're going to let run the Dnevnik, and of course they can't know that unless they have professional support for such things, and you're right about that. Dynamicity in the statement and dynamicity at all in the media presentation is not something that is compensated for by yellow but is compensated by the quality of information and the quality of the presentation and information. And HRT has a lot of space to work on, lots of space. I know it is difficult to maintain the quality of the public media today, not only in Croatia, but serious states do, and small countries have a special obligation to do so because it is a way of protecting their national space public from what they should protect it from and create a presumption of serious debate in public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102263	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102264	Your Honor, Mr. President. My fellow Pupovac, you've turned a little bit into this phonetic, rhetoric, grammar thing today. I agree with you on phonetics and grammar and rhetoric on television, it's not good, it can be better. No more educated people like the old guard, but you're talking about something else. You're talking about hate language, about something that shouldn't be said on television in content and names to say etc., etc., etc. I understand you well. You're looking for essentially censorship. And you know what the truth is, how do I experience it? TV is only censored for the right, let's talk freely, and it's become boring. I don't even know what the poet was going to say. The people are also looking for this Bujica, Bujanca, the whole country is watching Bujica because it's boring HRT, because it wants to know what's on TV, wants to know that she is the grandmother who says she needs to burn down the church she goes down to Sava to present herself as the savior of Croatia. It's the essence of things. Because they're boring because they only censored on one basis in general, so one day one day they censored, the other day, and then the editors were afraid of the principal and stayed at zero. And they need to make it interesting to become professional television, to live and in some way to report realistically. And there's nothing to complain about, you're full of HRT. Your political action and expression is actually a constant provocation. It's your way of political action, your insurance of votes, your insurance of votes. No problem, you came one time that I know of in Parliament with some move and you secured with that election for the next four years. Okay, but that's how HRT should get a little more interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102265	Thank you. Answer me, Pupovac fellow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102266	Dear colleague Marasovic, first of all, should it be necessary to vote for a conclusion that would go in addition to these reports, these two we are discussing and that this conclusion is every day for Dujomir Marasovic 5 minutes on every news show by Croatian Radio and Croatian Television I will vote for. There is no greater death sentence for you than that conclusion. And therefore, if it's a defense, if it will increase the presence as you say right-wing political scene, I absolutely vote. I'm the only one who thinks the right scene is better off when it comes to right and centrist politics than it is your politics or your rhetoric. And if you think that the Bujanac is something that represents the interests of the people and the political culture of the people, then it's a disaster. On Croatian Radio or TV, I would be the first to hear that censorship exists, and hate speech is simply an inadmissible thing. If you think that speaking in hate language is something that's allowed and that's a matter of freedom, then we absolutely don't understand each other. And as for the show that is being edited by the Bujanec who has also appeared at the inauguration of the President of the Republic, unfortunately, and thus humiliated its act of introducing us to the throne of the President and respecting all of us as elected president of our country, I would, if the law were to be implemented properly and the Council for Electronic Media would do its job properly or that concession would be taken away or the show would be abolished. Because it's a chlaka of hatred and unprofessionalism, and it's a role model for you. So be it, but I'll give you five minutes anyway if you had HRT to see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102267	Thank you. Next replica, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102268	In your speech, you warned of a sign of a trend of weakness either in software or in financial terms, you warned of what happened to Vjesnik and you still asked how it was possible for commercial televisions to contact the president, some of us prime ministers and their information to be much more visible than public service. Now the question is, how is it possible for all of us here, that all the officials in the Republic of Croatia, the mayors, the mayors, for hundreds of times, are being re-examined, questioned in the media, said who has, here in this report our citizens, we all who pay the subscription, we have no idea what their wages are. We didn't get that information, and as far as we can tell from the report, I don't even know if the board of directors got it. In order to be transparent and the first step in this kind of transparency of the work of our public service, which is financed mostly by the funds of our citizens to know whether the director may have twice as much pay as the prime minister? We don't know if his salary is 20, 30, 40, 50? Some editors had over 100,000 kunas. We don't know that today. There is still reasonable doubt as to what their wages are when they hide them as Boro the Snake of the Legs said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102269	Thank you. Answer me, Pupovac fellow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102270	Dear colleague Klaric, your question is in place, but I think you'll agree that it would be even more in place if we put him in a wider context and that's how social money is spent? So, as counterpart Shuker said the government provides significant funds at the level of each year, we here vote as representatives in this House when we vote the budget of the Republic of Croatia with how much management, and with how much efficiency, and with how many results? Is management, is business policy not dynamic enough or is it dynamic enough to deal with competition, that's the question? And you ask that question rightly. So if it's not dynamic enough then every kuna is too much, then every kuna is too much for you and for me, and then so is for them. Therefore, you are right and we must ask this question because we see that money is actually spent on maintenance, on survival, and not on improving HRT's work in a serious way. And that's our concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102271	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102272	Dear Mr. Director, it's hard here to say something that has not already been said through discussions, which through replicas but I will return to what I mentioned as committee rapporteurs. In fact, I can go there even with the presentation that the director of HRT had at the beginning when he said that the business report was delivered in July if I was not mistaken in 2014 and then we got if I was right 2 supervisory board reports, so Mr Leko returned as Parliament President, and then a united opinion came again. And finally, the point of the story is that today we are discussing the HRT report and the supervisory board's report without having an opinion from the parent body. As much as we have in the monitoring board's report, not only do we not have the parent body's report but we don't have the government's opinion. Look, the government is setting up here, signing a contract with HRT, prescribing some, signing some mutual obligations without even giving an opinion, not giving an opinion on it, I don't think it is, I won't argue but unusual practice. In any case, I agree with you, Mr. Chairman, when you realized that our Rules of Procedure in some things was obviously either unspoken or wrongly done. Remember when there was a debate on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we warned that the new Rules of Procedure would happen exactly this situation which is now happening to discuss a report, a law that has not been discussed by the parent board at all. Now the question is really what is the purpose of these committees? As some laws have deprived the Parliament of the right to discuss very important issues and to decide on a government without a parliament, we now also have a situation that there are committees whose opinion should be respected in the plenary debate, however, there is a debate without these views of the board. Unfortunately, in the debate I will have to repeat the parts of what was said because it is simply so, more or less the speakers so far have brought out everything that I thought I was going to point out, financial indicators. I agree with my colleague Vuksic when he said it was not important to show financial gain, it is important that the programme which is the main product for him to be quality, that it be something that justifies the funds invested. However, these financial indicators, such as if I'm not mistaken, were warned by my colleague Glavak about how it even came to be. And I think if the goal is to have a paper cover that's something positive then, even then, this debate is pointless. If only the goal is to cover it exists on paper. As for the receipts that, in here, someone quite often says pay, I still differ because I've been a union union for years, I've distinguished those two concepts, and I don't agree that I'm interested in wages. I am interested in receipts, in receipts made on HRT, but we are not on HRT, as there is an obligation for other public enterprises financed from the state budget or which are users of the state budget I also see no reason why complete income, no salary, but full income would not be available to the public. After all, that fact would make it impossible to speculate whether something was knocked up or not. In this way you provide space for people to consciously present false data with the aim of manipulating and pumping the atmosphere. I don't think that's in your best interests either, and in the end, I hope you're not ashamed of what you're getting. When it came to these receipts, I asked a question in one of the replicas and the structure of the employees. Someone else mentioned that structure of employees, or 40 shifts and some cancellations, so eventually if I'm not mistaken, the effect is 8 employees less and the financial expenditure for employees is higher. This inevitably says that those who are lower-ranked on the pay scale have been fired and that some have either made progress on that pay scale or have recently arrived from the outside and are therefore well-rewarded. Not only did I notice, but all the speakers who have addressed the subject have pointed to the problem that the report does not mention the number of employees anywhere. So the data, you know, when you take it, it's so much now, but what you're sharing, what you're sharing, if you don't know it then you know only one side of the formula, the other side you don't know, and it's unknown to you and it's impossible to calculate what we're even talking about. It's a memorabilia reduction. And as a representative from one of those environments where there was an termination of correspondence I reacted in time with the letter, the normal result of it was absolutely nothing but also colleagues discussed it today. Today, this man in correspondence is both a cameraman and a journalist and a editor and I don't know what. It reminds me of those street players, you know when they have both a trumpet and a lip harmonica and I don't know and... And a drum on his back and he's playing [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One man band, he plays, what is, he plays. [[One man band.]] What's the quality of it then? Now here we have heard that quality is at the same level, even more so because of some new equipment that is both quality and better than it was. But how long can it take? Watch out you're exhausting one man, that one man's a driver, I'm talking about my county now. This one man must come to Novska on the same day, that same day must send this kind of contribution from Sisak to Zagreb, and then he goes back to Banski Grabovac who can only find it on military maps and return to Sisak, then go back to Rujevac, then return to Sisak again, so how long? To be honest, it endangers both him and the complete job, but for what? I'm not sure, even moreover, I'm sure the financial effect isn't equal to the other one. You didn't save as much as you could get lost. There have been a lot of words here about the information program and the fact that the information program has the weakest ratings since national television. It was also a finding that ratings depended on quality. And I can agree with that, but to some limit. You can lift the ratings with the fact that I don't know you're going with yellow, yellow being the first news, not to say some extreme situation. Yeah, here's what I'm thinking, you can introduce something of that type of naked news to start an information program, and you'll probably have ratings. But that's not the point. It's not necessary to tie one to the other. But the level of quality of the HRT information program, that is, HTV and these other two, I think the ratings are indicators. I think it's ratings after all. Are you keeping in mind that when you put parity from radio listening, or the quality of radio programs, I think that Croatian radio is no match for quality that there is no match. So it's proof that it's not necessarily about having to be something provocative, explicit, and to be seen. Unfortunately, HRT is becoming increasingly interesting to the public because of interrelationships, due to the fact that individuals are even placed in the position of estrading stars. On the other hand, a colleague mentioned the division of clans today. So I was trying to be picturesque and say the red and blue ones not alluding to HDZ and SDP but he went one step further and said, which I suppose he knows far better than me that the interest clans there rule. It's been a year since you've been there. I honestly, as my colleague Djurovic would have said, just before, as an average viewer of Croatian television, do not have the impression that the situation has improved, however, I have the impression that this segment is advanced if we can call it that. That the situation is even worse. We have a case of verbal delinquents, quitting for verbal delinquency. Now, I'm listening to my colleague Pupovec, I'm sorry that he left, which explains it, the justice of your actions, from the media, probably he has some other information, I don't understand, I don't know what the problem is, which justifies someone getting fired because of a verbal delinquent. On the other hand, we have the freedom of the leader, which is what I think colleague Babic mentioned today, the press code. But I think we were focused on one part of the story. This press code, to be honest, that the people sitting on this side of the assembly are watching the first HRT programme, will call on the press code and probably warn... The leader. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People sitting on this side of the assembly watching the 4th HRT programme will probably have the same observation in the same context. Is it normal that there's such a division? It's public television, it should be public service. But to me as a regular viewer it's so obvious that it doesn't have to see up a number that's a program to see by. I don't even have to have a picture in front of me to hear a spoken sentence, and I know what program it's about and conditional on which side it's oriented. I have a specific proposal for you, but not just for you. This one applies to you, but I'm going to extend it to everyone else. I will extend it even as a proposal to the government to make a decision that all state-owned and public-owned companies have a ban on law enforcement. All state-owned and public-owned enterprises have their own legal services and all state-owned and public-owned companies are using law houses. And those lawyers' houses have been in the last since I've been here often mentioned as a rock of interference. There's a debate this morning. You've already been there. The debate was to begin, a pause was sought because of the problem that is happening specifically in the areas of Kvarner and Istria and that part. Don't let yourself destroy people because of 80 kuna subscriptions that you can't pay so it jumps to 300 kunas, so it goes into action, so I don't know, either, so you'll get into a situation where you'll be even with some half-criminal organizations of this type that claim to themselves that turbos are fair and they're all satisfied with them, but in all the debates and what we see on the ground is actually giving us the right when we question the legality of their actions. You have your legal services. After all, the state was now going with that magnificent debt write-off. I think it's extremely incorrect that state public television is using a law firm to force some of these debts, and I think you'll stay marked with gold letters in history if you give up that practice and cancel the contracts with the lawyers' houses. Now I'm going to have a little bit of a report from the Board of Supervisors. It cannot be assumed that the Board's report was written by two persons, or in particular the entire report was written by one person, the conclusion of another person. A full report from the Supervisory Board is a taxing list of illegalities of suspicious situations, questionable situations, which would be the case. The conclusion is everything is wonderful and wonderful and there are no separate opinions. It's simply that conclusion with the first part, or the previous 160 pages, that doesn't really have much in common. I think, frankly, it's unserious without any kind of personality, but I think this is really unserious. You have 160 pages of text in which there are tax-listed irregularities, irregularities, even more doubtful whether legitimate actions are legitimate and then, in the end, there are no objections, everything is fine and there are no opinions set out. A little weird, but there you go. I will mention and I think that part of my colleague Mesic mentioned by the Supervisory Board and the contract that the Supervisory Board has rejected twice. And if I'm not mistaken for the third time in a phone session, he's accepted it. Well, I don't know if it's something we can treat as normal, normally. I'd even have no idea what's in that contract except that for a wonderful miracle for three years, I guess the only one who's been signed for three years. But that fact alone causes you to doubt and the likelihood that someone who gave in under pressure did it against his will or let's say someone subsequently well elaborated and explained it and convinced him that his opinion was not a good opinion. And by the end of it, I'm sorry my fellow buds are gone, but he mentioned that we should protect the TV from our influence and pressure, but how. It would now, by banalizing to the maximum of your HDZ colleagues, get away from HRT because there's no point in having you do something about it right now. We need to get the policy out of it, and getting us into it doesn't matter. It's, no, no. That's the attitude of my fellow buds was and I'm sorry he's gone, so it turns out I'm saying I can't get the opposite attitude, but that's extremely incorrect. We can't be now, but now we can't, and at the same time we've been doing what we wanted. But I also disagree that it would be the other way around to be clear, because I remember the statement of the distinguished Dr Duja Marasovic when it comes to HRT management, when he said what he would do when we came to power. And I appeal to all the rest of you sitting in that club to have a coffee with Dr. Doo so he can calm down and not go with such radical methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102273	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, I think you've noticed that, in fact, in contrast, the conclusion on the work of the Supervisory Board with what was written in the Supervisory Board's report. Indeed, there are numerous affairs, numerous irregularities and illegalities in the opinion of members of the Supervisory Board in the recruitment of certain staff, lack of adequate diplomas, etc., etc. I don't want to pick up everything that's written right now. However, as you yourself have noticed, the conclusion is as if everything is fine. Then it was supposed to stand on a 10-page page and then we'd all be satisfied probably. But you also turned the debate in the direction of quality and the programme itself. But I would go back to the quality of the HRT Act itself. When we talk about the consensual approach we had before and the present approach where it is indeed exclusively carried out by the majority without agreement and without consent with the opposition MPs I will only tell you that let's say HHO announced that this law on HRT in journalistic circles with the right was called lex Lukashenko ironically. Otherwise, Lukashenko is for those who do not know the president of Belarus, one of the last dictatorial states in Europe, because it could now be extended to others, but the fact that journalists themselves speak sufficiently in favour of the law. How much today is a garden that does not meet the needs of Croatian society, and even less the needs that all club representatives have here where we really need to agree on how we will deal with HRT issues and its functioning, the choices of leaders, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102275	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102276	Thank you very much. So fellow this about the supervisory board as I have noticed and the chairman of the Supervisory Board has gestured that he agrees with the stated thesis, what you're mentioning in this second part of the HRT Act, we're otherwise this assembly of parliament's famous for the lexes, lex this, lex that. We have them thank God quite a number. But we heard today and another term, the Pharaohic powers. And you know what the greatest paradox is? What just came from your club was the thesis that it's okay. ... Yes, it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the ranks of your club. Yeah, it's not a democratic party. It's a democratic community. That's right. But the thing is, look, as far as I've noticed in the debate, it's more or less the agreement of everyone that the law is not good, that the former was not good, but you can see now that he was better than this one. Okay, so let's take the backdrop of that ex-wife, so now we're supposed to have some experience, some knowledge we've burned on some cases, we've seen where the mistakes and possible holes are, so let's suggest the text of the law change. It'll be your turn right after the election anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102277	Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102278	Oh, thank you. So you're actually referring to what I'm talking about today's correspondence problem, what 5 in 1 is, it's actually the correspondents 5 in 1 not 3 in 1 but 5 in 1 which has in some way led to a situation that in correspondence practically can't do women at all because it's simply a part of the physical affairs that are very difficult and if they do and men have to be young and strong and can endure a few years of such a job. I mean, they were brought in under almost impossible conditions. And on the other hand, somehow regardless, maybe the amount of the program and the larger total, so that's actually saying that maybe they were before when they were over maybe they weren't really producing enough programs. But this is now the situation I think is making it difficult for us to be available, especially in small areas, to be available on a public medium. And the other thing is that we are here, in fact, we are critical of HRT leadership, but it is my impression that we are a little overly critical of Croatian television that has immeasurably, in my opinion, an immeasurably important and significant role in Croatian society, and in fact, that role should be contained. Otherwise, we are such a young country, we love young society if it is possible to run over at short intervals and lie to all institutions every four years. And I really don't think there's any need for us to go into some self-destructive debate with regard to HRT, but simply that has a very positive and very good role in Croatian society. That's my opinion of HRT otherwise. It's just about how what's wrong with HRT leadership is improved and improved, not how we're actually constantly sinking ourselves and all the institutions we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102279	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102280	Thank you very much. I can't agree with you on this final fact, the final statement. Look, if we're putting out some critical attitudes, that doesn't mean we said nothing's wrong, and I don't know what to do right now. But we can rightly point to those facts, those data, what we've noticed is that it doesn't match what it's supposed to be. On the other hand, I share your opinion that HRT, but especially Croatian Radio really has a reputation among Croatian citizens. And now around that first part about the termination of correspondence and you've realized that it's 5 in 1, that I can't do women. There are examples where women work, and I know of a case like that. But let me find out otherwise in the press industry is a big problem and with this overwork, and with work for a certain time, and with some freelanders and I don't know what doesn't exist but it's getting smaller, it's becoming more and more common in all activities and it's a modern slave system. And unfortunately for us, the workers, which is the worst of all, are at the time of the government when the Social Democratic Party is at the helm always, in both cases, the most lost workers, the workers' rights are most abolished just when this power is at the helm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102281	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102282	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Novak, you, too, have touched the notion of ratings in your debate. In part, however, I agree, it should be borne in mind that there is no clear correlation between the ratings and the quality of the programme. Of course when you ask the journalist the journalist will tell you as the athlete says the result is important, so every journalist will say that ratings is important. However, public television is allowed to do something and in my opinion it must not do something to increase ratings. Because some analysts even say there are no significant differences between the journals on Croatian TV and the commercial television logs. The difference is that maybe commercial television has a good mix so they put politics on it, and you mentioned nudity, estradius, and crime. Of course, public television in my opinion shouldn't, I don't generally care, I believe, and most of the citizens that a certain public person has done the mutilation of their private part of the body and that sort of thing to increase ratings. And what public television can do is certainly, with objectivity, a more dynamic and visually better approach to individual topics. Of course, in that competition, you can't copy commercial television, then things happen, and I noticed the same thing that a TV reporter stands in places where a smart man wouldn't stop, so there's a report. One of them took the storm out of the frame, and I'm watching. That kind of thing, just in order to possibly broadcast something from commercial television to increase ratings, that kind of thing doesn't have to be done by public television. And as far as financial indicators are concerned, maybe that's what I've seen, 12.6. The tax administration said that the debt to the tax administration was 377 million kuna and a little bit more. The debt came from 2004 to 2008. So the HRTs are also experiencing the fate of many public institutions, and some things have not been done in time, so if the debt is created it needs to be corrected before. It's similar with the thing with the errands only time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102283	Thank you. Answer, no answer, there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102284	So I have to admit to my colleague that I'm not so sure, this replica, or the first part of the line of view, I've also found that there is no, it's not necessarily connected, because we can realize that the naked news or the naked forecast or whatever it was, but that's neither the goal nor who's calling for it. There's something called a quality program. But I'm not so sure HRT is pairing up with two other TVs. Okay, my opinion is subjective, that's my opinion, I'm not saying it's relevant but I also doubt the relevance of those analysts you're referring to. Is that your expert opinion today? Today you can get an expert opinion however you want, scientific opinion, you can pay. The Tobacco Factory will not name the city will pay for a scientist who will write you that smoking in certain quantities is useful. That's how analysts will give their opinion as well. Depends on who ordered the opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102285	Thank you. Deep Billic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102286	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Novak, it's nice to actually be funny at first, maybe some kind of joke or joke to draw attention to yourself but the parody that turns into something completely different isn't very good especially when you're talking about these HRT cameramen who actually turned out to be selfie camera users when they come to the field. I have to admit that HRT teams are also coming to us, and I've never seen a single HRT reporter holding on to a five-pound stick or God forbid a five-pound camera, at the same time in the other hand, and he's interviewing a citizen or something like that. So, I think HRT is doing its job very well, especially if you take into account and read the report on how many minutes of scientific programme, cultural programme, education programme, children's programme are done which no other television is doing. And I think that way we should respect that part of their work. And now as far as correspondence is concerned, we must also be aware of the fact that we're asking HRT to be economical, and on the other hand, when we stop correspondence in a city we're doing this whole parade. In Varazdin County, therefore, in the area which is relatively rich in larger county seats is currently correspondence in Čakovec, but nothing prevents them from coming as spotlessly to Varazdin, to Koprivnica, to Ludbreg or to some other part of Croatia and doing what the public service said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102287	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102288	I don't know what I'd say to you on this first part except you're doing your party assignment neatly and you're saying what you know you have to say. Because this is what I mean below every level, whether you're trying to explain to me now that these people are wonderful and wonderful, so look and other colleagues have warned you about it. After all, I talked to those reporters, I was with them, and when they go from Novska, so they have to go straight to Gline, that's normal, right? Well, no, but is that right from this perspective, from the perspective, now I'm going to be the bad guy, so I'm going to say from the point of view of the parliamentary representative, the ruling majority comment on how there's some poor guy and what I care about him, I can explain it because it's my party assignment. Well, don't be like that, I mean, it's really wrong for these people. This is really incorrect. On the other hand, there are parades. So what do you think it's about making a parade when people point out that it's in the middle of where I come from Sisak-Moslavina County during this government but also those former ones, and I can't mention you when I like you so much considering what's left in my county. There's nothing that hasn't been destroyed. And now that someone else explains to me that the loss of two or three jobs. Look, what's two or three jobs on 180 thousand people?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102289	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102290	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, they told me to concentrate on one thing and I would have a lot to say in my speech, so I will now concentrate on what you said about democracy and democratic actions within Croatian television, given the system that is democratic and especially after '91. Even though the director of Croatian television was also the director of that television before '91. In two terms, he is, therefore, separated from the mandate. So when we talked about the lady who got fired on Croatian television, Mrs. Karolini Vidović Kristo, her only fault was that she tried, therefore in the Ethics Code for Journalists and Creative Staff in Article 15(2), trying only to add three words, so this is how the original text of the ethical code reads: "In her work, public appearances and social media appearances journalists and creative staff must not highlight political, secular, economic, religious, religious or any other belonging or objectivity that could objectively create an impression of their indifference or objectivity.". The text that Mrs. Carolina wanted to change is like this: "In her work and public statements representing Croatian television..." it is a newspaper "...journalists and creative staff must not highlight..." and all of this. So that's just it. So in your private time, in your private time when you're not at work, when you're not on a job, you can go if you want to go to church, you can, right here we can, Mr. Director is here so we can ask him if he's allowed by journalists and creative staff to answer a phone poll if someone calls him on the phone, some kind of political poll... It's this very ethical code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102291	Come in, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102292	Look, buddy, I don't know what it is, what real correspondence was except for what I read in the media. If what I read in the media is true, then I'm sure that's no reason to quit. I can say that I absolutely disagree with her worldly attitudes if what I read in the media was true, but that would in no way be a reason to initiate any proceedings against her, let alone lay off her. So much for me to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102293	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102294	Comrade Novak, for the first time, I'm going to the replica of a member of the club, the same. The debate I followed today is 10 years in a row, there's one joint sentence in these 10 years, everyone who's debated today and especially in the morning was in the context of whether or not I'm being tattooed. All those who are considered not to have been on screen enough to criticise HTV and attack and especially the information programme because they believe he was not sufficiently tutu. And that's how it's repeated for 10 years in this assembly. Second. And this Croatian Parliament must decide whether Croatian television as a public television is allowed and must enter the competition with commercial TV. In this hall and your predecessor at the head of the board, we have often claimed, public television must not compete with commercial television in view because it then loses its meaning. If we want to get into that game, and some people are calling on the BBC, imagine the HTV log with the commentator. Well, he'd lose his head after three days to bring it in. In Croatia it is possible to fill the Dnevnik with tits and buttocks of both sexes, you have the highest ratings, it is a competition on that market. Unfortunately, I'm banalizing to make myself perfectly clear. And at the end of the legal service and millions of kunas of public money going. I will say the final moment is for Radman and all Radmans to terminate the contracts with Hanžekovic before him and that robbery of Croatian citizens and subscribers in favour of private accounts with Hanžekovic, briefly and clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102295	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102296	Comrade Lesar, here I thank you for getting the honor of being the first inside the club to which you replicate, this will remain recorded in gold letters in history. As far as this part of the law firm is concerned, I absolutely sign that, with you detailing one law firm, I have called on the government in my debate to obligate all state and public companies to stop cooperating with any law firm because there are such houses and who work for even my favorite HZ and similar companies and who make fat profits on these contracts alone. And that first part, even though I'm going to take it as a light irony, but you're not going to give me any remorse with my predecessors and the thesis about IMT or if I'm there. I can't complain about it because as president of that board, I've never once been on HTV, so I can't reduce my presence on HTV. I haven't been once, and I can't be sure to reduce my presence on HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102297	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102298	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, I answered the line before you mentioned me about HDZ because you said HDZ away from television. And what we're pressuring on TV is what you took over from Pupovec. I also recognized myself for criticising the concrete transfer of HRT during the inauguration of the Croatian president. So how can you do that? Are you aware that it is a disgrace of the Croatian state? It is a disgrace of Croatian television and relations... That shame and that kind of approach. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I need to relocate myself from Croatian television once more. And now it's clear that I was right when I said I needed to move. And you're all calling for that one word to be moved. So what does that mean? It's an expression that's being used, it's being used here today, and I'm unconsciously not going to say who used it right now. But that's one mild word, a new broom. The priest comes from one parish to another, says he needs a new broom. Mess up in your backyard! You've caught up with that, too. Which is according to what Milanovic said to me or them. And that's not what he's talking about. What are we talking about here? We're in the business of stupidity. Yeah, you need to sweep up everything that's wrong. It's no hard thing to say, not a word, not a word, not this, not that. Okay. And what else you're saying, etc. etc. I think you've looked too uncritically at the work of Croatian television. It's not the same HDZ and SDP. It's already floscule, no one listens anymore because HDZ asked for HRT directors consensus and chose consensus, and when the party comes, then they say no, we'll do it ourselves. The whole of Europe has stood up, Europe has asked for it not to be their way, but to be a consensus. But Europe did not insist on it as in the handover of Perkovic but stopped, so you Croatian primitives are counting on each other. It let us in and it didn't HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102299	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102300	We have chosen by consensus and it is a pity that this consensus and that consent that it has not perfected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102301	A colleague of Marasovic, I think a colleague, Novak, has understood the replica. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102302	You can't forbid my opinion. The fact is I'm still in the election campaign and I'm not changing my attitude I said that HDZ and SDP are the same for me. But that was 2010, in 2011, I was going out with that attitude, and now I'm saying the same thing. But in terms of television, you set one single example. Okay. I say it was better, and I did that a little while ago in response to your party colleague's comments that it was positive and let's do this. But if anything positive comes up on this side I'll say it's positive, no problem with whose side it comes from and who says it. If there's anything I think is right, I'll say it's good, if I think it's bad, I'll say it's bad. I don't have any brakes on it. As for moving the same as it was your time military wing... So I said it was stupid that it couldn't be bigger and that a man was playing with something that was inappropriate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm also telling you that you're not aware that the word "moving" means leaving a family without existence. That's what it means to me. And that's what it's all about. But you're playing with words just like you used to be a colleague. Well, don't be so human, it's not numbers! And these are people who have their families, their children, who need to live on. You can't say that. Let's move 'em, let's kick 'em. Good thing you didn't say let's throw them out on the street, the effect is the same. And as for the inauguration, I didn't see it, I heard the persuasions. But as far as inauguration is concerned, I disagree. But there were also other discussions on HRT that I disagree with, but you didn't find it appropriate to mention them, which were in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102303	Thank you. And the last replica, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102304	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Novak, in your debate, you resented the director of HRT that he did not present the data in his report, so the maltenes turned out to be hiding them. So, data on the number of employees and paid salaries. I do not want to be placed in the role of HRT's attorney, but allow me, on page 78, there is also very nice in the table, and later in the text, the number of workers written on 31 December 2013 was 3321, which was a reduction compared to 2012 for 48 workers. It continues to say, gross wages are calculated in 2013 at 457.5 million kuna. Therefore, it is necessary to calculate how much gross wage per employee is then. That's $13580, and that's high wages. Net wages are not shown, so gross wages are high, and what I have to say is absolutely not in line with salary levels is a drastic reduction in the production of the programme by 27%. So, the volume of business, the volume of basic activity decreases drastically, while the wages remain the same or even slightly higher because compared to 2012, gross wages per employee grew slightly more than 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102305	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102306	Thank you very much. Well, you've obviously misunderstood me in the first part, not so you can spread your arms as much as you want, and then to make the report transparent... Well, it doesn't say that, you can say whatever you want, but the fact is, what you're talking about is charm. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've got meat and we've got cabbage or cabbage any way you want and we all have charm. But someone gets one, someone gets another. ... Not every employee, but it would be normal for the most paid jobs to be available because these are the salaries all public companies would have to have. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know that yourself. But at the end of the day, I didn't say it in the context of attack, but I said it would be more transparent for you to publish that, too. Finally, there were suggestions for this to be published on the page, to be constantly available. That wasn't offensive, that was fine. Now that it's from me, it's offensive. And in the end, I guess you're aware yourself that the number of employees and the average gross salary paid doesn't give you much information, but nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102307	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the SDP club and Croatian Parliament Vice-President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102308	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Chief Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. To understand the position, the position of HRT today and the role of this institution in society must be restored to the past and even there to the draft of this institution. Croatian Radio started broadcasting on 15 May 1926, Croatian Television, then Television Zagreb 30 years later in '56. A year. From its draft to 1990, Radiotelevision Zagreb was state television. It acted under the terms of a party system and logically had a programme policy that supported the then state policy. Because something different would be hard to imagine. In these dark times, series like "Gruntovci", "Where Wild Pigs Go", "Little Mist", "The Very Same", "In Registration", "The Begs and Sons" are Going, as far as I can remember this moment. I find it a little strange that at that time of darkness it could be recorded at all, so there was enough light for the cameras to record something. Either the reflectors were stronger or there was some miracle, mostly these beautiful series were made at that dark age. And today, sometimes we can look at them on the 3rd program, but they're reruns of reruns. Since that time, from the '90s. To this day, this facility has failed to produce anything but nothing similar to the quality it was made in the dark. At that time, he took care of himself in Radiotelevision Zagreb and the standard Croatian literary language. That's what I'm going to start with because I'm unusually concerned about protecting the Croatian language. '90s. There was a change in the social state system, social order, HDZ won power, we got a multiparty system, and then the ruling party that won power took over and the state television. She took it as her election prey. I worked at that facility at the time, and I remember it well. We won the election, and it's our right to get TV. What happened then? A large number of top quality journalists have been expelled from television, a whole generation has been swept away as Dujo Marasovic would have said. And I have absolutely no doubt about what will happen again if HDZ gets power. Dujomir Marasovic's threat will come true. All those who don't like HDZ or don't like them today will be mixed up like those of '90s. A year. I said that until then, Radiotelevision Zagreb had kept, cherished the standard of Croatian language, carefully, carefully and responsibly. Then, just in the 1990s, however, the standard literary language of Croatia began to break down. New words began to be entered, new coins were made up, so this new speech began to get into that standard by dirtying it and spoiling it. One example of a number of words, and I'm not going to mention things like that now, is the vote. The claim is not worth saying at that time that we will vote in the Parliament, but we will vote because animals are voted and people vote. The poor did not know that the verb vote has its back form in Croatian, it means to vote, and that it is preserved for animal voting, and that people simply vote when they give their vote to this or that option. So, voting comes a normal verb that comes from a noun vote, vote like a class class, not classify and stick, not stat. But at that time, those who took over the radio television didn't know it, they probably didn't know it today, and they began to impose their language in a fictional way, beyond the Croatian language standard, and so other than the human-devasted TV began to devastate it and linguistically. It wasn't just happening back then, it's happening today. I'm listening to one of our colleagues yesterday who resented our Pedja Grbino on that report is saying that Pedja Grbyn is illiterate and his entire board, so he proposed a law that uses the verb to perform and only grain is done. Those Glagoli stalkers I've been listening to all these years. These streams of knowledge are enough for them to attack from their throats or throats with an attack on that verb without any real meaning. They also attack those who know more about it than they do. Of course it's not right to say that we're doing repairs when we can say that we're fixing something, that we're harvesting olives when we can say that we're reading olives, that we're doing tunnel paint when we can say that we're painting tunnels and even more than once. But to exert political pressure, to do God's will, to be a doer of duty, to carry out an order, to finish a job, to complete a certain age, to carry out every measure. So this attack on the verb could be called one of our esteemed colleagues who otherwise thinks he knows everything and is not Žarko Puhovski. I started with my tongue because I'm unusually concerned about my tongue. It was then said in those dark times that the standard Croatian language is the language spoken on Radio TV Zagreb, then it was, it was then the definition of the standard Croatian language. I don't know if you remember them, I'm old enough, so I remember them from those beautiful ladies, Jasmine Nikic, Gordana Bonetti, Zeljke Fatorini, Ksenija Urličić, Helge Vlahović, they were not sure if they were more educated, whether they were smarter, whether they spoke better or looked better. And today, eh, today. This report said that there was a service for language and speech, but respected headmaster of what this service does, what does that service do when it does its duty, apparently the horns fail to teach anyone anything? When we have to listen every day that something is going on in Zagreb, that something costs 100 kuna and moving the accent to the first style, it has become an epidemic in the institution where one of the primary tasks is to preserve the standard of Croatian literary language. Today, if anyone will, if he already knows Croatian, and if he wants to preserve his purity about not listening or watching the HRT programme, with the fact that I have to say that the Croatian Radio is being kept far better than television, we are not a matter of language but also of the quality of the program. But as the new scheme has led to the removal of these programming units of television and radio, so it all comes together, I'm afraid what happened to television will happen to the radio, that it will lose some quality and its advantages, and that in a few years we will talk about these beautiful times when at least on the third program of Croatian Radio we can still hear a beautiful Croatian language with the right lengths when those times will be past. Let's get back from the language of that history of HRT, said from the 90th year HRT remains state television, until then it was state television and it was only understandable, it and the multi-party remains state television, only changes in the leadership, banished journalists, Agbaba, Žekić, Gordana Grbić, some of them later received judicial judgments and large compensations and leftover salaries, but late, irreparable damage was done, a whole generation was missing, a generation that could teach young people how to work and they were no longer there, and those young people who came off the road no longer had anyone to learn. So, one destruction that can hardly be analized. It was state television and it was normal for everyone to, for example. Mr Vrdoljak, vice-president of the ruling party and the head director of HRT, shall also be vice-president of the HDZ. It's still unimaginable today, but it's still unimaginable today. We did move a little bit forward, though. In 2001, HRT became a public service, leaving the concept of state television and television is trying to organise itself as public television, two laws, which Mr. Jasen Mesic well knows in this attempt to make public television was passed, twice changed that law, unfortunately I must say, unfortunately, without success. Politics has been removed from the HRT by a programme council elected by civil society directly without the influence of politics. So politics was removed from HRT, but what happened? In that council, there was no call of politics. This council has begun to deal with politics. So then the law was amended in a second attempt to preserve public television at a time when the director was Galic and I can tell you while he was the director that she was then the most functioning public television, but later the new council ruined everything again. It began to trade, members began trading among themselves for certain positions, were bringing some kind of nebulous personnel solutions, all started to fall apart and had to unfortunately be colleague Jasena Mesic, you are right, had to intervene in the law and return to the concept of state television. At the concept in which the Chief Director is elected in the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. But is it clear, is there a clear political line in this new law? Do you see her in the program orientation? I, from today's debate and from my experience watching that TV, don't see it. HDZ attacks that television that she's government, SDP's, I think, when I look at her, I think she's anti-government in a lot of segments. But I don't think she's government or anti-government, but she's completely anarchic. There is an anarchy, an editorial anarchy. There every editor owns his own show like it's his lazy. It's like his family heirloom. And on that show, he does whatever he thinks he's doing. If anyone thinks to object, then it's a violent attack on freedom of journalism. I see two or they say, they tell me there are two currents, one left, one right, one to hold the third program, one to hold the fourth program. I hear that today, colleagues from HDZ stand up for Hlorka Novak Srzic, Joza Barisic for Mr Kristo, do not stand up for others. I don't know if they're more prone to HDZ, if they're prone to HDZ. But I understand, I see, with the mass of editors, the insult of politics and politicians is the highlight of journalism. When they insult a politician, they think they're good journalists. I was at the inauguration of the new president, so I didn't watch the transfer. But if it's exactly what I heard today, then it's unacceptable. The elected president is elected president, not everyone voted for her, neither am I, but she performs an important political function and must, she must be treated with respect. This must also be done by Croatian broadcasters, such as state television or public television, whether they like the new president or not. That is how they must treat both the Prime Minister and the ministers, so they must treat both this Parliament and the MPs. That's my opinion. Last night we worked here until half past midnight, and on the same public television we listen, we listen daily to how we're lazy and unemployed who have high wages. And who says that on HRT? Those we don't know how busy they are or what their salaries are. The European System of National Accounts of the HRT has been placed in the general government sector, so business needs to be seen in the overall context of fiscal policy. Incomes are 2.3% lower than in 2012 and 90.7% are public revenues. It means tax, budget donations and other public revenues. Well, please, if that's the case and that's the case, that's what this report says, then someone who receives 90.7% of the income from the public sector must publicly publish their salaries. I rarely agree with HDZ but today, in this request, I agree but 100%, not only with HDZ, but also with other clubs that have talked about it. And it pays both directors and editors and journalists. Being a populist is today among journalists very, very attractive on Croatian television, calling others because of their salaries but hiding their salary as a snake's foot, you know how populist it can be talked about? I think populism is more dangerous than any other form of government, I think it's more destructive. I think the fact that populism, what damage populism can do to society, can't do any autocracy. But if we're going to talk populistly about journalists, well, we could, well, when a journalist has one show per week for an hour, say that he works an hour a week and that he has a salary of not knowing 16 thousand kunas because he works 4 hours a month. Of course that's not true, I did that job and I know it's not true. But that's how they talk about us, about politicians, about others. Well, now, it may happen, Director of Time, that someone should say so you won't be the populists over us, so we will be the populists over you and we will suggest that you cancel the tax, return 80 kuna to every household in Croatia and you gentlemen to the market so be on the market if you manage to keep a job like you journalists. And now we come to the authority of the director, Mr. Radman. The founder of HRT is the Republic of Croatia. The representatives of this founder here in the Parliament are asking you to publish your salary, Mr. Radman, I think you'll have to please them because that's what the founders are asking of you. The program several times today you said I'm not responsible for the program, and I'm telling you, you're responsible. Not in the sense that you get involved in the content of every show, you can't do that because it would really get into the freedom of journalism. But you decide who will be editor-in-chief, who will be editors of the program and ultimately what kind of editorial policy it will be. E for editorial policy you are responsible, and editorial policy is therefore the main line that the house must follow, which values must be advocated, so you must not advocate everything on public television or say sorry but it is pluralism of the media, that is freedom of journalism. You can't defend everything and you can't defend everything. You know it's like the CEO of the sawmill says listen to me, I don't care about the quality of drinking wood, that the director of the glass says look, I worry that the manufacturing processes are going well, that the machines are working, that the workers are coming to work, and now my God, what is the quality of the glass in my glass, and listen, it's not my job. It can't be like that. Negative examples of this are full and where there are none, where there is no negative invention. I listen to Patri, I have nothing, I have no idea what's there, but I see, I hear the court said that President Mesic was not collected, they found no evidence that he was corrupt. The news begins corrupt Mesic, Patrija bribed Mesic. Well, that's not how it works, it doesn't work. If the court said it wasn't then brother didn't, then it can't go to the title, it can't go to the live one. As much as anyone would like it to go live, as much as anyone would like. But there's a responsibility. I was in Hum the other day on Sutla 2% unemployed in that place, 2% unemployed when a Croatian journalist went there to record that example, that there are certainly many in Croatia, good examples, I don't see them on HRT, and that's Croatia and that's Croatia to show, and that's your responsibility, and you and your editors. You must also respond from the quality of the program. HRT enters the race with commercial television and breaks its quality of soap opera, cheap content, for which for low education citizens, undeveloped taste? Well, there's got to be something for them, too, and they're paying the fee, and I agree, but it can't be the only one or the weight of content, it can't be. HRT's mission is not to be necessarily the most visible but to be the most qualitative because it has enough money collected from citizens. And he has to insist on that quality. Low quality, poor content forgive and this content and this journalist should not continue to work. It also says about external production, and it seems to me that he cares more about external production than his own production. And what it was bought from its own production, as it was bought from, from whom it was bought, since it was bought, why it was bought in the report is not, and I would like to know. Payment fee, 32 million kuna was charged more than the plan and 37.6 million were charged for legal expenses, more for expenses than was charged for the plan. And I want to know who went to that $37.6 million? I'd like to know which offices are these, what kind of law offices are these? I complete, esteemed, esteemed Mr. Radman's quality, objectivity, public content that's what you're asked for, that's your mission and you need to be aware of these missions. Don't run away from responsibility for the program because you won't be able to escape as much responsibility as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102309	Thank you, too. I have a temptation to say something other than to call for a replica, but I won't say anything, so replica. Drazen Djurovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102310	Thank you. I don't know if I missed, given that you were speaking on behalf of the club, you brought up a lot of valuable courts, but you spoke for the club, and I didn't realize in the end whether on behalf of the club you supported that report or maybe I skipped it, so I didn't, I didn't notice well, since you were those valuable courts as far as I could interpret them were pretty critical of the director and of that supervisory board. And secondly, of course, a retrospective can work in different time spaces and, of course, depending on the positions that each of us has, we can interpret it differently. My impression is, you've looked back on some events in the '90s, but I have an impression from my position that in the '90s and 2000s, and today there's always room on HTV, let's say for the left journalists who held some shows, it's been years. Stankovic has held for years, Latin held for years, Milic, Mima Simic. But they can't remember exactly the examples of some right-wing people, who, for example, held similar shows from some right-wing positions for years even at the time of HDZ authorities. So, when they had an impact on national television, let alone these last four years or at the time of your previous government. So, like some kind of reflection of a democratic balance that would be present. And this was an interesting parallel with the vice president of the HDZ as head director of the '90s. Well, maybe after the election there's a current deputy president of the HDZ again, maybe a new space opens up again after the new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102311	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102312	Oh, you're absolutely right, I forgot to say, SDP will support this report and thank you for reminding me that I failed to say it in this address on behalf of the club. And as for criticism, yes, we will accept this report despite criticism because I think it can only be critical of someone you deeply believe can be better. Because according to the one you don't believe can be fixed by him, hands up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102313	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102314	Dear Mr. Parliament President, thank you for coming in so late. Mr. Stazic, however, about what the HRT was doing, that is, at the time of socialism, so you were on those committees, which I know where I don't know, everything that was recorded in World War II went to censorship in committee as the lowest and then to Belgrade, Tito looked last and while two masseuses polished his heels he was giving the final judgment on all films, all the series and everything that was recorded about life after World War II. And only Partisan shows were recorded. "A lot of the same" she's a part of the Partisan fight. The second thing is that we Dalmatians love it, it's got humor, and I've watched it five times, I'll watch it six. "Where do wild pigs go?" the unruly city of Zagreb, which unruly city? Obedient until the last days. And all that nonsense. History shows have been recorded... but also those humorous series that had the task of relaxing people's frustrations such as "Prosperity and Sons" are significantly censored and they had to rip them off, etc., etc. What are you talking about? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the question is that she recorded TV at the time and about Stepintz and other things. So don't give us any lessons here. And that's the '90s. I don't know, I think there's a whole nomenclature left. And Mirko Galic is he a party cad? The director of television? And don't let me list you the work of the Kosovar, etc. But the greatest proof that it wasn't messed up so you're, you're, you're Croatian Radio Television's sugar, no one touched you but you were there pasture on Bospora and some of your friends around. And I guess this here in Parliament has made you a little bit better, so you've come, who's been touching you?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102315	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're replicating me when I'm here, so I'm giving you a warning about stupidity, and I'm commending you for sugar. The Honorable Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102316	I'm asking you to withdraw the warning because it certainly won't act educationally. I was never a member of the Communist Union, therefore I could not be on any committee. I don't know if you were, I know a lot of your colleagues from HDZ were, I don't blame them. Don't I know those who sit? You once said you'd never let anyone, I think you were the one who told Mr. Radman that you wouldn't let him because he was once part of that nomenclature. If you had listened then Luka Bebic could never have been president of the Parliament because he was head of the party in his day. But you see, when they put him here for Chief of Parliament, I didn't hear you rebelling. You're so principled, you're such a character, you're such a man. A good series, yes, I was never a member of the party but it didn't bother anyone at the time to get a job at HRT, the Radio Zagreb. No one asked me to sign up for the game. The most normal thing I could do was do my own journalistic work because times weren't as leadlike as you want to show them today. You're saying these are the good shows I've listed as nonsense. And listen now everyone has their taste, if it's nonsense for you then I leave that judgment to you and to all those who watched those shows and who heard that grade of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102317	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102318	Thank you, Mr. President. You said that you rarely agree with HDZ, and we rarely agree with you from the SDP, but I must say that the good part of what you said is that I agree with you, except this part of what you spoke about language, etc. In the end, you said not to give up on the one you believe in. I think we got our hands up too soon from that system that we had with the two laws in continuity that you said. Because if it did not work there in that individual system, then it was necessary to go to the fill-in of the programme council and the supervisory board that were synchronised to coordinate finance and the programme. The amendment of media law and media legislation made in the Croatian Parliament during this government and this parliamentary majority cannot lead a respected colleague to editorial policy and responsibility policy. You know why? Because we started from behind, and we should have started with a media strategy first, and with a media policy from which specific laws such as the HRT Act would come out, and so we would have to come out of the editorial policy and then you wouldn't have to take the right critical look back at what's happening to us in the media, journalistic space or in the space covered by HRT. However, with the support of the Prime Minister, the competent ministry has made such a gift and a violation and a break from Croatian television, HINA, where articles have been changed exclusively in laws that speak of the choice of leading people. Nothing else is touched but those articles. We've completely skipped these steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102319	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102320	Unfortunately, my dear colleague, I cannot agree with you as much as I like you. So the idea of HRT as a public institution was brought by Minister Vujic. The first law came here at the time of his ministry to the Parliament. It's not about people, unfortunately. If it were a person, there would be no problem, so I guess there would be a dozen people who could do it. I don't think we're enough developed society in this regard, that we don't have enough consciousness. We are not enough democratic conscious society. I'll give you an example from another area. I don't go into motives, right, no reason. But if someone fires a campfire in the middle of the road because they don't like one minister, if they're completely illegal for months living under a tent, breaking the laws knowingly, they're breaking them and doing it on purpose, and the whole society tolerates it, then we're not a democratically mature society. There is a right to protest and no one challenges it, but every protest or any activity, everything that happens in the state must be legal, and you and I must be equally concerned about it being legal. And if someone calls on you or your party to do something illegal or illegal, then you're the first one to get up and say no, you can't do it on my behalf. That fire you can choose to put out, because it doesn't burn in my name. You know why? Not because of your demands, but because of your illegal activity. When that happens, then we will be sufficiently democratically mature society, and then we will probably be able to have public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102321	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of the Sun's Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stazic, he came and that day, and here we agreed on something between you and me. So, you in front of the SDP, we in HDZ. What I'm talking about is actually caring about the presentation of Croatian language in Croatian TV and Croatian Radio. Today you may be the third person to touch the Croatian Radio that is more in your heart because you have spent your beautiful years there, to me perhaps more television with reverse reasons but very intimate and personal. Mr. Stazić, the Language and Speech Service still exists on Croatian TV. However, the speed at which representatives, editors, people sent to the field may be the problem. These people are not adequately trained to appear in the public service program. They are, of course, irritated by all those who know something about language lawfulness, irritate and all those who know how professional radio or television work is done, and we absolutely agree. I believe we'll also agree on the credibility problem. The central person of the central information emissions or every three months may not be changed every two months. And no one gets people, no one can work on the screen because not all people are going on screen. That's what it's all about. It's the same thing to take care of. You mentioned anarchy, you mentioned I did mention the word chaos on Croatian television, so I hope that you may now be kind of intimately questioning whether the law that was passed without consensus managed to solve something or if we just deepened the crisis that actually existed at the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102323	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102324	I don't talk about Croatian Radio better than TV, so I don't highlight Croatian radio because Croatian worked in my heart more than TV, but because I really think Croatian radio is objectively better, it is objectively better. I think I know the reason for that. He's not in color, he's not so attractive, so there's not so much reach for him, so he left it a little bit aside so he didn't get too involved in Croatian radio. So because there were not so many external interventions, there were not so many brooms there to sweep those who are thought to be moved it was the Croatian Radio left to live their lives, to develop looking for quality within and finding it. You're saying this law didn't work out. He did sort things out not the way I'd be happiest. I would much prefer, far more if we had succeeded with Vujic's law and made it to public television. I'd be far happier because I think it's a policy task to allow public service to be independent of it. That's my deepest belief. The deepest belief. But leave the situation as it happened on that alleged television, we just couldn't. We'd be irresponsible if we did. We'd be irresponsible if we hadn't intervened. Because every row, every row is better than complete anarchy. We've got order here, we've got one restructuring procedure, and we can say that he should have gone differently. We can agree with Mr. Radman, is that his path is best but that's the way and that was, that was nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102325	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102326	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, like my colleagues who spoke in replicas, I'll also say that this is one of the few opportunities in which most of what you've said agrees. However, I cannot agree with the way you talked about the times from the draft HRT or how you said it or Zagreb TV, to be exact from the '50s to the '90s. I mean, you were pretty cynical about those times, like those lead times, and they weren't as leadlike as you said. Yes, they were, lead, there were times of freedom, there were times of totalitarianism, and it was totalitarianism that dealt most cruelly with its opponents, people were killed. People were killed, fellow Stazic after Bleiburg at a time when there was no more war. Thousands of cemeterys in Croatia are that we do not speak yet in Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere where remains that have not been marked today, these cemeterys, and what the Council of Europe has obliged us to mark those graves in a dignified manner. Thousands of cemeterys, we're not talking about the number of victims, we're only talking about locations. So to say that it wasn't lead times at a time when censorship was carried out at every turn. I'll just tell you a story banal that showed a system of values. And Tale of the Christ was actually called Ben Hura. Nowhere in this film, the time of communism did not appear to be the character of Jesus Christ who actually completely changed Ben Hur when watching the content of the film in a way that made one person broad and full of spirit, therefore under the influence of faith. The faith of Jesus Christ was cast out everywhere in the film. It's just an example of a system of values, a system of values promoted by the totalitarian communist regime, which was condemned along with Nazism and fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102327	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102328	Well, I'm going to answer that part of your line I understood, one part I can't understand because I didn't understand it, you connect Bleiburg and TV, I don't know what they have to do with it. Bleiburg was '45, TV was founded in '56. And I don't know what they might even be into. You're talking about totalitarianism...... Comrade Matushic, can you keep your mouth shut while I replicate to you or will we speak in parallel, because I can and can stop so that you can continue? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But if we're going to be parliamentary, let your colleagues warn you how to behave in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102329	If that's what you want, get out of the bar downstairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102330	Yes, yes, but while we're in Parliament, act like you're in the Parliament. Come on, imagine you're in the Parliament and act like one. Totalitarianism did not stop on television in the '90s, totalitarianism continued in the '90s and lasted until 2001. It took a while, and lead times,... Look, I told you, I wasn't a party member, I was working on that TV, HRT, on the radio, part of that HRT, and I can testify about those times, and I think a little better than you because I can testify firsthand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There was no lead time. There was no persecution for those who were not party members, there was no persecution for those who thought otherwise. The only thing they were asked to do was respect established software policy. And you couldn't expect now in one party system that software policy would be more of a party system. If that's what you expected, forgive me, then it's a problem with understanding, with intelligence because it's not there, it's not there, it can't be. As you cannot demand that today's programme policy in several parliamentary democracies be a unilateral system. If it were a programme policy, it would go beyond state policy and certainly not be acceptable. So what's in itself understandable to me is not clear to me that it's not understandable to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102331	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102332	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Director with his associates. We started on the language... So here I am going to add some oil to the fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 1984, when Stazic of Pontius Pilate began, I too could later, so Dr. Schreter, the late Dr. Schreter in Pakrac, questioned one of his patients, which he was interested in, and this one answered that a retired officer had signed on to a medical card, a retired officer. In 1991, Dr. Schreter was taken and one was killed, and he doesn't even know where his grave is today. And in 1984, Goran Babic, former editor of Polet, may have known him by some who no longer lives in Croatia, wrote a declaration in Sunday Dalmatia whose deputy editor-in-chief was Zoran Erceg, in which he sought, like what another man asked for in office high in Croatia a few months or years ago, to crush a snake with a Ustasha head who spoke again in Ustasha language. And Dr. Schretter paid his head for that kind of attitude. I'm not saying that was the only reason for losing his life, and that his grave was unknown today, was tried and the exchange in which one parliamentary representative participated, replacing two doctors from Sisak with another nationality, but they got their freedom, those prisoners from Sisak, and Dr. Schreter was not brought into Croatian ranks because he ended up mortally, being missing and not knowing where his grave was. But aside from that, according to Stazic lead or woolen weather, according to Djogo, we do not want to talk about it but about Croatian television. Croatian television was once or very often referred to as the cathedral of the spirit, and then it was public, and it was state-run since the 1990s became public by the coming of the SDP coalition to power, with the public thinking that it would really be something that would no longer be influenced by any parties, that it would be television by all citizens, all supervision, one democratic institution that would be neutral but also objective in reporting, in commenting, in showing everything that is happening in Croatian society, but also in producing the programme for which it is in charge. But here I am not sure which times I mention that this spirit that we thought would actually be turned into something that is a complete copy of Croatian society. And as the advertising for the Croatian postal bank says, we are dividing into homo and anti-homo, we are dividing into blue and white, we are dividing ourselves on all sides, so that by the arrival of each government, Croatia television has actually become in some way the instrument of the government, at least in that information section, starting with the central information emissions and beyond. It is quite clear, especially after the new Law on HRT, which was passed in this House by reputing and overruling the majority, that that is the case. And with the right, Mr Dujomir Marasovic hopes that when a change of government is possible, of course, as it happens in the counties, if one option is in power, the next election will be won by no other president. So led by that logic or analogy Mr. Marasovic said so. But what happens to the former leaders, as well as the editors on HRT? They'll keep their jobs in the county, be some kind of reference for this or for that, but they won't be the headmaster. And so on HRT. However, his salary will be lower in the county because he is no longer the head, and what happens on HRT as opposed to the counties, for example, and it will happen that these editors and other TV officials are holding back and that there is power on HRT to reduce these coefficients, based on changes in his status. So it was this way that the crowds of those who were hired on the political line, friends and godfathers, etc. And there were 3600, right, Mr. Radman? I don't know how many people there were. When we look at and compare the program of commercial televisions operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and their number of employees and HRTs, the amount of programs produced, quality and all, if this can be measured at all because the tastes are different, says the Latin saying, then it can be said that the number of employees in HRT compared to these commercial televisions is significantly higher, relatively higher. When an HRT is trying to introduce a restructuring paid by the way 300,000 kuna is paid by one company, so other people's brains are paid, so according to the Supervisory Board's report, Croatia's TV has paid 299 000 kuna for the Croatian restructuring plan, so it is either indicated or ordered whatever you want, I don't know how Stazic would accept, which is Croatian and which is not. So there was a decrease in the number of HRT employees. Apparently there are now, but still we don't know exactly, the exact number, it's interesting that we don't know the exact number of employees of an institution of 2-3 thousand people, it's supposed to be around 2800, so it's kind of data or news from HRT. But what is particularly interesting is that there is no longer such a significant political impact on staffing and employment as to the importance of the interesting influence or influence of interesting lobbys associated with the leadership of HRT and people in HRT. About the pay ratio, mostly those who were brought in, so they got a job in 2013 and 2014, and I'm taking 2014 now, it went well, and some of the others I talked about before that it was greater than 6 to 1. I mentioned a comparison with hospitals where there's no such high, so drastic difference. We still don't know. And if we have points, and I have points here, what's the value of that? We don't even know that. What's the point value if, for example, we can talk about names, because we need to be transparent. If Croatia is public television, the Croatian Parliament is fully open on its websites and can be found out about everything and pay, so they spit us in "24 hours" and I don't know where, as we have, and they show gross wages, and not net wages. Well then they say look at what's there I don't know how much. Can we find out and/or by the way I don't know what the COP, the Pay Centre or anything that we know how to deal with, to say yes, these are salaries that are consistent with the situation in Croatian society, in accordance with the perception and existence of poverty and poverty in Croatian society consistent and normal in relation to the situation in Croatian society. Here, and do you want me to read the names of those who are later, and not from the beginning of the employee and speak their coefficients, and I'd like to hear the value of one point, one coefficient. So we have here in the program, writing a fine business unit, writing his assignment. So, the name of the place of charge, it says the name of the unit of work p.j. program and writes coefficient 21. Furthermore, under number nine, that's under number nine. Under number 3. we also have a program economy place informative media service, master by qualification, value, coefficient 14. Apparently, there are some annexes, but there's another one. Well, then, number 39. Support management, legal affairs, senior expert prepares, I guess the lawyer is 15 coefficients. So after that we have technology, fast multimedia technique, coefficient 15. Then 21 businesses p.j. Business, I won't speak on purpose here, but I will tell you that I won't speak names. So then the director, excuse me, technology coefficient again 21. Although here in this list we find a coefficient of 2.95. So it's not six times more than seven times the coefficient. I'm not here to say anything, I don't plead with a cookbook, I don't plead that, of course, there are complexity of jobs, etc. But I'd like to know why, when we're talking about the Ethics Code, those who are subject to the Ethics Code with all kinds of obligations that they have, and they're journalists, and then I'll only find that material for a second. So journalists and executives on Croatian television, therefore, and who are subject to this Ethics Code which I consider not democratic. Because in a democratic society everyone has the right to express exactly what the Ethics Code forbids. Of course, in his working time as a public television employee, he must not appear from that point of view. But that he can be an employee in Croatian television, so I can't believe it, that he can't and that he has to be given. The only measure is fired. No talk, no warning, no reproof, no I don't know what. I don't know if there are any other disciplines or how Stazic would say "strict measures." So it's amazing, yeah, so these are creative staff, a little bit, given the volume of speech, the volume of text and material, sometimes I run out of words. So, journalists and creative staff. Now that they're subject to the Ethics Code, and when they're actually business holders, they're job holders, creative staff. And who else? He's not a lawyer, is he? Well, it's not like I don't know who either. Well, it's not here, and now you've received three lawyers in 11 months, you've had a three-law contest, or you've received without a competition. I don't know. I'll talk about that. Therefore, this creative staff per me, and that is what we should discuss in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I'm glad you're here more often. You also wrote me a letter from Mr. Radman on mine, not lunches, but the questions I have asked the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament and you here. I know you weren't happy with my questions I asked. After a couple of months, you sent me a written reply so I wouldn't forget to say it, and I was glad you answered. I didn't think I had to do it again, I didn't want to do it with you, because I think there were a lot of answers in those questions that were actually correct. But here you are with your team, with your team, agreeing with me the answer, and since I didn't want a correspondence, not because what I was saying is not true, but because there's no need or sense in rewriting. I mean, there's no need. We're talking, we're gonna get a chance, and we got here after a year to talk a lot again. What I'm saying is I don't want to say anymore. I've got something else and something new. So, one of the journalists asks me if we have the right on Croatian television to answer an anonymous telephone survey when he asks you about nationality, religion, so if anyone asks you, religion. And for race if anyone. By his judgment, he may be able to, but to do so remains maximum anonymous. If anyone finds out he can't trust anyone on HRT. What kind of institution in which fellow Stazic, who is a member of the coalition who has chosen you, says that there is such a cowardly anarchy and editorial anarchy, that is, those two things. Dissatisfaction on HRT, I don't know if you feel it in your office of course which you have and which one belongs to you, if you feel that fear among employees of mutual communication. Like in those days of Caligula, only someone says if he was against me, you're done. When great blood was shed in ancient Rome. Do you feel that there is as Stazic said, here I will only quote my colleague Stazic, an editorial anarchy? That's exactly what he said. Well, then everyone on their show or in their linen and domain does whatever they want. Very often, we also have provocative questions about certain journalists, including Croatian television, and we would like to know, and it's very puzzling for example that a journalist who performs once a week will not speak his name, and always on Sundays after lunch, most of the time, is it me before lunch, is it, so how much does the journalist who performs once a week have a salary? So why don't the Croatian public where he's so popular, so at least they say yes, why don't you know how much money he has? Why not compare these salaries with us representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are lazy, who do not work, who we have an assessment of how what Mr. plus 2 or so have somehow given us an evaluation, which does not have us here here 20.25 at this time, last night 5 at 23.30 as Stazic says. So let's give freedom to the citizens, that information doesn't need to be hidden, so it's not a secret. After all, citizens from their 80 kuna to 90% of the amount are financed by HRT, citizens. When it comes to this fee, as it is said, the interesting word of the fee, then we talked about both the charges, the lawsuits and the lawyers who make huge profits in the lawsuits in connection with the unpaid fees. You know, I went to a lawyer once, I tried to be, and I rang the portophone that exists on the door. I got a call from a clerk, a clerk most likely or a colleague of the lawyers, and she asked me why I was coming. I said I'd settle one of my cousins' obligations for not paying the fee. She said you don't have anything to come to us, you have a notice that's written, you choose to pay your obligation. Well, I'd like to talk to a lawyer if we could at least get some interest or something done with it. You have nothing to talk about, pay for everything. She wouldn't let me in or into the office to talk, or go into the office, let alone talk. It ended up on the laptop. To which I said something else that wasn't really for this Croatian Parliament, and I added that, so I wouldn't talk about it. I was angry, not because I didn't achieve anything, but because she wouldn't let me talk to my lawyer. Well said a colleague here that there's a legal service. You really have 850 disputes of which anyone knows how much with HRT employees former, present, etc. How much is the weight of it, even here sir, if it's a gentleman... or I don't know who's there to say how much. Well, he's a financial expert, to tell us how much harder Croatian disputes are, how successful the trial is for HRT. Not for these charges for this fee, but through the case of employees and some other external entities who have sued HRT. And I don't have an answer. Maybe we'll hear it. It's not too late to hear it. Furthermore, we heard a lot of words about the ZAMP contract today. This contract for some kind of advance, I never heard that there were advance contracts that the Supervisory Board had rejected twice, so he refused to sign, and yet he eventually signed a partial contract with the opposition of one member of the Supervisory Board, so it would be worth hearing, the amount is 67 million kuna and we all know about ZAMP. I mean, we don't need to keep secrets anymore, we know who's behind it mostly, etc. Now, the Supervisory Board says that on 15 April the day before the continuation of the 6th session of the HRT, the head director of the HRT had concluded a contract with the company Mediahub, the former director of the HRT for the preparation of strategic analyses of the evaluation and ranking of strategic options, consultations in the development of a draft restructuring plan, etc. At the same time, the disputed situation of Duška Zimonje, a recent Mediahub employee who is now becoming large, I don't know exactly his function, I have it written here, but on HRT. People who were employees of rival TV on HRT are employed, which is very interesting. So, commercial television with a high coefficient of 21. In closing HRT stations or whatever they're already called and... only centers are very interesting distributions and distributions of those centers that remain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a university, therefore there is a HRT centre in Dubrovnik, Split, Sibenik, Zadar, Pula, Rijeka and Osijek, I am not talking about Zagreb, there is a central institution. So one continental and how many six or seven seas. So is it possible that just Slavonia and HRT, public television, and about Slavonia, I am talking about our diocese, and that is how Croatian television is looking. I'm not talking about the fact that, of course, the number of employees is smaller, that it's some kind of restrictions and restructuring, and also the reduction of staff, etc., but are you convinced, let's be honest with me that one centre in Osijek can cover 800 thousand people and a fifth of the Republic of Croatia and on the same surface, so in Dalmatia, Croatia, you have as many as 6 or 7 television centres? Let's think too much, I'm not looking for anything else. I know I can't change your decision, and you know it depends on the next election and your position, but I'm trying to take it too far and you're thinking even though I don't expect anything special, but I have to say it, I can't keep it a secret at all. Next, let me put this paperwork together, about lawyers. 25 of them were involved, it would not be surprising even if the Croatian television had been conducted, so not to give more to lawyers than to sell their debts to factoring companies, and we have brought the Factoring Act, so now we hear here from the staff in the Parliament that every day they call debt seekers as they can actually be called Croatian factoring companies and ask to be paid due to some teleoperators who have sold their debts to these factoring companies and who are now pushing those debts and also very harshly, and threats etc. Don't do that, please. You have developed legal services, you have enough employees to work on because if you did, it would be even more catastrophic than the law firm that lawyers make debts to. About the gentleman someone mentioned here, it seems to me Mr. Lesar, so it's not past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102333	Thank you very much. Yes, it is. ... You can, but you can't do it individually anymore, I'm afraid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you are logged in, you cannot log in. Everything you've reported, we'll cut you up and let you do it. Thank you very much. ... You think we set you up? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A fellow this table here has no soul or anything, it's all technique, everything. You have a colleague now an opportunity another ten minutes because he has some replicas on your exhibit. Well, let's get it straight. The first replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102334	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Grubisic, so I would like to go, you also mentioned lead times, you can't take away the impression that in the SDP they are still trying to lag these lead times, so they are trying to alleviate them, and in fact they do not accept the democratic standards that are today ruling Europe and which are founded in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and thus deny or want to try to deny all the negative phenomena that have burdened Croatia and the Croatian society during the period of the totalitarian communist regime and before. It was impossible at the time to hear anywhere that people were killed on behalf of the state and that they were killed just because they had a different opinion from Đurekovic, to Bruno Busic, etc. And, of course, no media, so neither on that television that he's talking about such beautiful superlatives for that period, you couldn't hear the truth, you could hear nothing but counterfeit. So I mentioned that Ben-Hur censorship case that's actually the whole story about Christ. But something else is also, I want to share with you and that's the question of these salaries. I hope, we will suggest one conclusion in the HDZ has, one conclusion which I hope will be accepted by the SDP club in view of what Mr. Stazic said on their behalf, which is that the HRT directorship publicly publishes information on the salaries of all employees. We will seek this out of our conclusion and I believe that such a conclusion will also be supported by you to simply remove from the agenda as much as anyone has paid and how it relates to the money coming from either the budget or the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102335	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102336	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, let the historians deal with history. I care about the future of Croatian television, but that of course should not be forgiven primarily if there is no regret. If there's remorse and sincere remorse, then it's no problem or forgiveness because it's a human act, forgiveness is an even greater act than remorse. If he's not here, how will you forgive him? Anyone who shows remorse for the actions he has done should forgive him but never forget. But while you're already from Dubrovnik, so I'd like to ask you, I'd like you to tell me about this move to the Croatian Television Centre in Dubrovnik a little bit, to the OTP Bank's premises. I heard something about Pula, too. It's interesting that the centers are moving you, if it has something to do with what I've been saying about the interesting connection between some stakeholders and individuals. So I didn't mention anyone individually, nor do I want to, but it's interesting here's this little phenomenon, or it's just a coincidence that two centres are already in OTP, OTP bank rooms. That would be very interesting. So I am interested in the future of Croatian television because some sources are trying to get to the bottom of two centres, Zagreb and Split, so talk, with a reduction, with a reduction of even more employees and that only in Split and Zagreb are there, that is, the main TV in Zagreb and another centre in Split, and that is all. Is this going to be so and whether Croatia has the possibility to continue through these 80 kuna fees to finance Croatian television and to have this Croatian television mirror Croatian society and one media magnet neutral, objective, fair in some sense, political, so with equal deviation from all political parties, that would be best, it would be best with production rather than permanent All right, I won't do it anymore, I'm done. [[A colleague...]] I'll keep going. [[You've gone way too far.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102337	A new replica, a respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102338	Mr. President of the Parliament. Comrade Grubisic, you said I was hoping for something when HDZ came that it would be on TV and this and that. It's just a demagogy, for me, what you're saying. I hope that Croatian television will be professional television and that it will stop the need in the Assembly at all to discuss these software issues, disputes, perhaps, every state is public television, has some report, but that it will stop the debate in the Parliament of the one we are conducting today. There is also a need to depolitise education, health care and the judiciary. Unfortunately, mine I experience and I see nothing is depolitized, but it is politicized more strongly than it has been in HDZ's mandate in the past eight years. I mean it on television. See what happens in the judiciary, choice for DSV. Well, it's a stronger political struggle, stronger political lobbying than the President of the Parliament calling them judges in, and by which line and by which basis. What are you talking about? What divisions are we talking about, as if Croatia is an abnormal state. We're a normal nation, a normal state. All societies and countries in the world are half, in America Republicans and Democrats, in Germany CSU SPD, in England these and those two parties, these are two sacred ones, it's perfectly fine, legally, and that they are changing in power, changing leaders in some organisations that control state money. It's okay, it's just that it's just a matter of pre-literating. It was agreed that there are 225 changing political places in the country. These brought in 5,000 people and politicized everything. Even a mosquito can't get through their net. When HDZ comes, if you feel like it, then the goose flies through that net. Be careful, and the prelitated things, Croatia is going in the wrong direction, should go in terms of depolitisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102339	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102340	Kolega Marasovic, when HDSSB goes through Slavonian villages in pre-election time, goes from house to house. We know exactly when we're coming to the village where the house where HDZ helped any employment, anything. They, she looks much better than that house, headed by some poor woman that HDZ didn't want or couldn't, or was in another party, so he didn't want to help him. So don't say things like that when we know it well and we see it with our own eyes on the ground. And you know in Dalmatia, too, it's not much better. So, about the geese in the fog or no fog, about your network, which is, you said yours. Targets and over. Therefore, what should be depolitical is primarily Croatia or public television. Don't talk anymore, will you leave Mr. Radman in charge when you come to power? Come on, tell me, and I'm satisfied, depending on what kind of answer you give. Now, if you don't care if your goose doesn't fly through your net, leave Radman in charge. Come on. So we also talked about the depolitisation of police and passed a law on the depolitisation of police or HDZ minister, I mean the one who put the standstill in HDZ membership, not SDP's. And he says depoliticization of the police. We just verbally depolitized some things. I would like to really depolitize Croatian television, Croatian Radio and Public Service. And that is the goal and the point is, and thus we will have objective reporting, progress of Croatian television. This is how we keep holding back, and all the time... Who's for this, who's for that guy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got this fight all the time, and there's Radman fighting the same in his facility. I'm not defending Radman, I guess I attacked him the most, so we can understand each other. But I understand, that's why there's anarchy in that television that Stazic, the editorial anarchy, said. Well, that's my answer, Mr. Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102341	Thank you very much. A new replica, a colleague next to you, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102342	Thank you. You were also talking about software content. So here I'm reading these days that, that's being prepared or that a series of Black and White Worlds has been recorded more or less. And the predecessors used to talk about how there was almost no example so almost nothing valuable in the drama program or any series that would have been memorable in the last 25 years that HTV recorded it, I would have told me, however, it's your show and our loved ones, I must admit I've seen it a few times, as such exemplar of something that I believe will survive in the years to come. However, I am sorry, for example, that my children were watching a series about the deer I saw as a kid, because in modern Croatia, we haven't recorded a single children's show that could be mentioned at all, so that our children or children of our children might see, for example, in the coming years. So there's not a single one. Today we rephrase shows from my childhood or I don't know if there's any from Borin's series, so long ago, I'm sorry, from Mr Grubisic's time. So, instead of recording some series, some, we try to record a quality show from today, we're shooting a series of 12 episodes about the '80s for 12 million kunas today. So let's let go in the '80s, so I guess we live today in 2014 and our children and our young, and that's the life of today's generation, so don't we have the resources to record something that applies to their lives for these generations today? About the '80s, a lot of series and a lot of movies were made, and then production and drama was pretty strong, because we're spending millions of kunas of taxpayers on a series that's talking about the '80s. I don't think that's the right direction of production at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102343	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Me when I was a kid was still Branko Cube, but good. The acrobat is flying hard, very important. But when it comes to the production of HRT, then there may be a large one there may be a mildly said but one confusion and one way that representatives, and the entire Croatian public, are a little suspicious of crime. It may be hard words, but I have to say them. Namely here is the "Stip in Guests" colleague mentioned, so the external technique for shooting Stipet is paid or as Slavons would say in guests. Well then you have who and whose shows, as they now like to say "The Voice" in English, do not have the first vote of Croatia but "The Voice", you might think. So who is it, who's behind The Voice? We also know it's a private company, production, private production. And not just them, for example. So let's mention an alpha movie and co-operation with HRT where money is also mixed. Not to talk about the name of whoever owns it but well, enough to tell the firm. So there's a series of things that talk about so-called. The external production of HRT, it's a minimum quota of 15%, but nobody says what the maximum quota is, so it's unlimited. We could make that decision a little bit, but we'll do it in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102345	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The club of representatives of HSU in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Željko Šemper is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102346	Dear directors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Croatian contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, public television is required for the past year, i.e. now for 2013 to prove that it meets the given programming principles and public services. In addition to the report on the operation of the HRT, we have a Report of the Programme Council which has provided certain assessments and observations which requested more engagement and active role in the preparation of the necessary materials for the quality analysis of the content. The Programme Council, as well as viewers, points out that the summer scheme takes too long and considers it unacceptable to stop broadcasting the usual scheme for almost 3 months. The Council also pointed out human resources management practices so that long-term editors, journalists and other creative HRT employees would not be engaged on any project and foreign co-workers would be engaged at the same time. In conclusion, the Programme Council concludes that there has been an extremely poor communication of HRT leadership with creative staff for a long time, which is likely to result from a new organisational structure which, after two years, has obviously not been revived. In addition to the Programme Council's opinion on HRT's business in 2013, the Supervisory Board, which expressed its satisfaction with the important improvement of the scope of the content and form of the HRT's work and business reports. It is pleased that after 5 years, a profit of €42.6 million has been achieved, resulting from a restrictive cost policy and savings made in all segments of business. The Supervisory Board shall assess that the conditions for the continuation of the restructuring programme and the continuation of the activities undertaken in the part of technological modernisation and consolidation of business for the purpose of sustainable development have been met. At the same time, the Supervisory Board finds that the cost of production of the programme in 2013 was 91.4 million kuna or 18%, less than in 2012, which means that this item was the greatest burden in the zero-year restructuring of HRT, which also avoided the loss. In the absence of available data on movement and efficiency, the Supervisory Board warns that the reduction of its own production of the programme is contrary to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 1 August 2013. The Supervisory Board is concerned about the continued trend of reducing the production of its own programme, which could ultimately significantly reduce the ratings and listenness and thus the relevance of the public broadcaster programme with significant consequences for its overall organisational and financial structure in the coming years. The business perspective of HRT was given by the business unit Business which, on behalf of the Directorate, explained that there was a reduction in the cost of the programme due to the new organisational structure, the late appointment of the managers responsible for the production of the programme and the delays, the launch, the realization of individual projects and emissions, which resulted in an increase in the minutes of the produced programme. I seem to have a contradiction here because the Supervisory Board claims that there has been a reduction in the production of its own programme, and the business unit says there has been an increase in the minutes of the produced programme, so these two things are really in contradiction. After all these reports, it can be concluded that for HRT 2013, 42.6 million profits were successful because the year before HRT was operating with 29 million losses. The revenues from the RTV tax were obtained in the amount of HRK 1,189 billion and that is the basic parameter of the stable operation of HRT. In order to achieve this revenue through controllers, HRT spent 105 million kunas or 8.6% of total revenue from the fee through reminders and the foundation of the HRT's implementation in 2013. The controllers collect 12 million 807 thousand at a cost of 16 million. 95 million are collected with a cost of 54 million. This data shows that over-funds are spent on forced payment of nearly 200 thousand radio and TV users, which means that each sixth payer on rTV charges does not have enough funds and cannot regularly pay this excessive fee. How much of this problem is best shown by the fact that HRT has achieved income from advertising in 2013 from 106 million kuna. So the entire revenue from advertising went to the expense of charging fees. Regardless of all the problems of charging fees, regardless of the large number of low-income citizens and the Ministry of Culture so far have not remembered to propose a model of lower unemployment benefits, pensioners with low pensions and older citizens who are just receiving social assistance. In order to reduce or abolish the fee for these categories of citizens and the cost of collection would be lower. For the sixth year, the crisis has been shaking Croatia and its citizens, and HRT is not feeling it too much. I don't understand how the so-called "no-tax" crisis survives. commercial television. By the way, according to AGB statistics, they have more visibility than HRT, as they probably have a better programme. So in the most visible time from 19.00 to 23.00 hours TV Nova has a ratings of almost 32%, RTL 18%, HTV1 12 and a half percent. And in this report, HRT acknowledges that in 2013, it was extremely difficult, as competition is strong, it is difficult to keep long-term partners because advertisers go where higher ratings are located. References to the HRT programme especially in the summer scheme were made by the Programme Council, and the viewers also have particularly pensioners and sports fans whose TV is the only window in the world because they do not have and cannot buy newspapers. Every citizen in the Republic of Croatia, every fourth citizen is a pensioner and emissions or news from the lives of third-year citizens of HRT dosed them on a drop. Well, here's what I'm asking Mr. Director to increase our three-year retirement show from 30 to at least 60 minutes a week, which is what I think our pensioners deserve. Women mostly watch shows on commercial TV, sports fans especially who like football if they want to buy maxtv. The working unit stresses that they were working under difficult conditions, a large number of unemployed, an increasing number of subscribers delaying or refusing to pay the fee, there are a lot of requests for the check-out of the receivers and requests for write-offs. All this knowledge and over-the-counter charge costs were not sufficient reason for an initiative on a better model for the most vulnerable categories of citizens and a reduction in the cost of HRT fees. Therefore, the Croatian Party of Retired Persons in the Parliamentary Procedure has directed the amendment of the HRT Act with the aim of reducing the HRT tax and reducing it for those citizens. In the register of FINA, the Financial Agency in which 60,000 persons meet the criteria for write-off of debts totalling 357 million and 29 and a half, and almost 30 million or 8% of those amounts relate to non-payment of HRT fees. We hope in the end that our remarks regarding the pensioner programme and the reduction of HRT fees in the 2015 report will be realised. As an offer, the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102347	Thank you too, dear colleague. Let's move on to the debate. There's no replica. The Club of National Minorities and Honored Representative Dragan Montenegrin is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102348	Good afternoon, Mr. Leco, Mr. Radman and his associates from the Supervisory Board, and I'm guessing from the HRT Programme Council, well, the Supervisory Board. Here's as it is at the end of the day, there's always not a lot of us in the assembly and a lot of it has already been said through the discussions that preceded these ours, which are in the hours of the end of the debate that has been starting since the morning. So, speaking in front of the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Assembly, I would like to start by saying that the National Minority Club is still dissatisfied with meeting the obligations of the HRT arising from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We have expressed our dissatisfaction every time on the Work Report. In this connection, we held or convened meetings of the National Minorities Council of the Republic of Croatia, which is the roof body of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The conclusions from these meetings and letters went quite frequently to HRT as well. So at the session held on 18 June 2014, so at the 58th session of the National Minorities Council, we reached the conclusion that we sent to Mr Radman. It's very hard to keep track of before, now almost two years ago, which has been happening and what report we really need to consider, but here I'm going to use these memos that have gone towards you, which you've already read, but here's to hear from our fellow MPs. So, I'm going to quote this memo. "Article 18. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and Article 9 The HRT Act provides for the obligation of the HRT to produce, co-producer and implement programmes aimed at informing national minorities that promote the maintenance, development and demonstration of their cultural, religious and other self-loathing in relation to the programmes in the languages of national minorities." Following those legal obligations, HRT shall provide the National Minority Council with annual reports on the produced and co-produced and published programmes intended to inform members of national minorities. On 18 June, a meeting of the National Minorities Council was held at which representatives of the HRT submitted a 2013 Report in accordance with Article 35. Constitutional law gave an opinion and suggestions. From year to year, the Council points out the dissatisfaction with the content of the minority programme in the entire HRT programme, the need to complete and educate journalists' staff to deal with exclusively minority issues, and most of all underlines the need to broadcast and produce programmes in the languages of national minorities. Following a series of meetings with HRT representatives, these issues have not yet received the merits due to both the lack of a prerequisite for sufficient media presentation of minority content and the discontinuity of the public service administration. Despite the fact that the meetings of the Councils at which the HRT reports are analysed and conditionally accepted are re-invited by the members of the Directorate and the Director-General for the meeting have failed to realise them. One of the reasons for the repeated calls for the meetings of the most responsible public media service persons is the fact that the unsatisfactory degree of minority access to public media is not due to the financial reason but to the editorial policy of the devoid of clear concepts of the minority programme. What is evident after many years of reporting by editors representing HRT at sessions is that although they carry out their duties professionally, they cannot be responsible for the HRT programme strategy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The constitutional law prescribed by the HRT to enable the institutions of national minorities to participate in the creation of a minority programme of opinion is that the task and responsibility of the head director and director of the HRT is direct cooperation with the advice on those issues. In accordance with Article 35 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The constitutional law requires the obligation to cooperate with legal persons carrying out activities that exercise minority rights and freedoms, including HRT, to hold meetings with the head director of HRT within the shortest period of time. After this, there was a meeting with the director of the HRT and calls on the president of the National Minorities Council to attend meetings of the Croatian Programme Council. The HRT Programme Council knows how to choose and know what composition it is and it does not have to have a member who is a member of the national minority every time. But what is good is that these meetings of the Programme Council are invited here also by the President of the Council for National Minorities, who was among other things invited to the 21st session of the HRT Council, where the Annual Report on the produced, co-produced programmes intended to inform members of national minorities in 2013 has been discussed in respect of the views and opinions to which Alexander Tolnauer, so the President of the Council for National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia, has been led to the public role of HRT in the field of informing national minorities. Both members of the council and the editors of the HRT agreed with Mr Tolnauer that national minorities should not getoised into specialized emissions but should be present in the regular programme. The HRT Programme Council called on HRT to respect the proposals for advice that go towards the higher role of HRT in promoting the equality of minorities and co-existence with the majority of people and preserving their cultural identity. The Council also called on HRT to respect all the proposals and remarks made in the debate so that these programmes become more and more programmes for both national minorities. For, I particularly stress this, attractive for the overall audience and by better contributing to the promotion of human rights, democratic achievements and dialogues, which is also the obligation of HRT to comply with the programme principles and contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, as I said, we have already analyzed HRT's 2013 work programme. We weren't happy with that. As you know, the National Minorities Programme, or I would say better about national minorities on the Croatian Radio, is realized through a single show called Multicultural and two shows that go on Croatian TV, which is Prism and Manjinski mosaic. Although the Prism has thus been given some form of temporary character, unfortunately it still exists on Croatian television until today. The most frequently reported reports said that HRT had carried out its obligations and then, in addition to the minute that I say so, it's hard to accept because we don't know where the sum of all these minutes and seconds comes from, is actually the sum of all those situations when the members of the national minorities are mentioned in any of the shows. Whether it is, and most often in situations where the incidents happen, when we talk about a wide spectrum of human rights or about other things like that in 2013, I will remember a referendum on marriage. It's absolutely unacceptable for us and this approach so far we just can't accept it. As I said here, it's not about realising emissions about national minorities, it's about national minorities. Unfortunately, we cannot because we do not have emissions intended for national minorities, so even when we enter the EU, Croatia or HRT must have programmes in the languages of EU member states such as English, German, etc. In particular, it is expressed in tourist seasons when we have informational emissions in foreign languages. But you won't have any information emissions and you don't have any information emissions, so in the language of the national minority, you don't have any. It exists in other countries, unfortunately not yet. This is also seen locally when we look at the Croatian Radio network, so let's say that the example Radio Osijek does not have a single show example for the Serb minority members, although in Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem County one of the most significant numbers of Serbs lives. In Vukovar-Srijem, for example, 15.5% of the population, Osijek-Baranja 8.7% of the total population, there is no such thing. It is very important for us to have the programming principles and public content that we want HRT to meet for all its citizens as it stands and in the preamble of the Constitution, so to the Croats as well as members of all the national minorities in it. So here we have to even fulfil the obligations towards the EU, but unfortunately not to the members of the national minorities. Still what goes on is, and already today it has been mentioned several times it is a hate speech, in 2013 it was significantly expressed, unfortunately significantly transmitted. That's what bothers us even more if we know that there was an agreement when at some, and especially sports events happen by fans or those who are in to say that watching a sporting event is unsuitable to scandals that should then be interrupted. Unfortunately, it never happened once, and we had a special reminder in 2013 of such extreme cases. Unfortunately, we didn't even honor what we agreed on. However, as far as HRT is concerned, it is clear to the public and public institutions that it is formed, exists because of the public need, because of the need for the state to inform the population, citizens and that in some ways through this type of technique and educates them. Here, many times today, there has been an emphasis on how to finance HRT's work. So he's regulated by the HRT Act. It is funded by public and commercial revenues. I'll visit, so as far as public income is concerned, it's been a few times today, it's either a fee or a subscription as we know it is. So the amount of the monthly subscription or fees can be up to 1.5%. Average net salaries of employees in the Republic of Croatia based on the previous year. But when I say the most that changed in law, it used to be 1.5%. That means it can be less, it doesn't have to be 1.5%, but it's 1.5%, and it's now 80 kuna, I think. I say this system is good, why? The first thing, better than the budget, than the state budget. Why? Then you will be immediately told the regime service, the regime television, this is how you get independence from one side. We have examples in other countries of how to finance public services, i.e. public media houses. I even think there was talk here about this matter regarding Croatia's accession to the EU. Among other things, I would say that there was also a good part of the probably debt related to unpaid tax debt to the state because as we all know this subscription or these 80 kuna is not taxed anywhere, or you will not see in the account 80 plus VAT or any other lower amount plus VAT. But it seems to me as a debt, and then it came to me, I don't know how you managed this probably in agreement with the State, the Ministry of Finance, maybe even through some law that we previously passed, related so that this tax debt would turn into a fixed capital. This failed in the previous period, but it was carried out as a debt. And I know it's always been a problem for HRT and the Ministry of Finance. There was always this problem the Ministry of Finance didn't want to give in, I think whether it was the Ministry of Finance or the HRT, it's already... questions, therefore, relating to the payment of VAT on the subscription. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's mostly now as far as I can see at this point or at least partially solved. This subscription is quite a problem for citizens who have to, who are legally and obliged to pay a subscription, i.e. a fee, and it is found to be paid by households for one recipient. There were even speeches about Croatia's accession to the European Union to pay for radio receivers, for example, if you remember in cars, car registration, etc. However, if HRT did not have this income, this is the income that goes directly to HRT, it does not go through the state budget, but directly to the HRT which is the largest, which is, therefore, how much has already been expressed here over a billion and 200 and something almost, 300 million kuna. In fact, it is the strength of HRT compared to other commercial media. This second income, therefore commercial income, can be realised from the sale of products, intellectual property rights, marketing, advertising space, real estate, mobile ownership, archives, etc. Now there's, I think, the possibility of every director, because this private income that's public, it can't be changed, whatever comes the director, head director of HRT and whatever administration. But here, there's got to be something here. You've sold real estate here, I'd say you might have peeked at the archives first, I thank you for your response to the Orpheus company that was planned to sell through that company all the works that were created on HRT. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that in the end, but they went to the concessions of the Zagreb Arena, and they tried to put it that way. But it should, however, be said and touched in that part because it is in some way a great resource, a great resource of HRT which it has created all these years, we have heard since '52. years since HRT even existed. However, I would ask and I received information that Croatian Radio Television has many more radio frequencies reserved for direct war danger or any other dangers and that there are many. Now I don't know what you can do about it, HRT's resource. In the end, we all know that HRT also has problems around these marketing spaces, i.e. advertising space, because as far as I can remember, I don't know if it's still a practice, this space is often sold through marketing agencies that take their commission. If we take that part of the cake in the Republic of Croatia, it used to be somewhere near 700, 800 million kuna, the good part is, when other commercial TVs appeared especially at the national concession he simply blended in with them, but I, my thinking is that there are also those marketing agencies that look at themselves first and then HRT. I don't know if HRT can do it on its own. I know another set of HRT jobs works through other agencies. Second, a lot of big jobs. There was talk here about external production. Yes, it is a safe area and a field that we can discuss whether there is a advantage but it is the obligation of Croatian broadcasters to buy external production in order to in some way and within the Republic of Croatia strengthen the resources it is called, therefore creativity and to enrich its programme through this production. I know a lot of them I could talk about, but I don't dare because I'm not sure if the information is entirely true, so to speak. Many have once again pointed out that Croatian television is more attractive than Croatian Radio. In Croatian radio most often we say that there are no, there are fewer problems, good works, etc., is not so attractive. I think that in the future we will certainly talk about some other, new media that will develop because I will remind you, you may know, and perhaps you don't know, and maybe it's not like that after this restructuring, and here's my former colleague and president of the Programme Council of the HRT, Mr. Milos, now a colleague in the Parliament, sometimes, the revenues were actually supposed to be distributed by half. 50% HRT, 50% Croatian Radio. So 50% television, 50% radio. It was never like that, there was a decision, but it was never like that because most of the funds were going to Croatian television. Normally, and because of the way in the media, the technology of the media as it is in some way focused but also because of the public who mostly watches television, listens less to the radio, radio is heard in cars, possibly at work or elsewhere, and Croatian TV is listened to, or watched in all homes. Probably, I've said in the future will be different because this now and I guess, and as much as is speculated that a concession is being attempted, that is, this subscription is being transferred to, and let's say, some new technological devices that, by which you can track both television and television shows and radio shows and everything else that none of the devices we've had so far could have been like a radio receiver or a television receiver. But probably the Croatian television was among other things because of the public work but also because of the funds on which there were many, many more funds than it was on Croatian Radio. I'd say more, and that's how much time I have left, maybe I'll say some things, and I'm looking to say what others haven't said. As for, therefore, all the media in the Republic of Croatia at the national concession, especially here I mean television, so next to the Croatian Radio Television which is a public service we have other commercial televisions. It has often been compared to how others have previously reached information rather than HRT, etc., how people may go more quality on these emissions. I'm going to say that most of the media commercials are working in loss, so most of them are doing it in loss, and that's a fact. Why, because they probably belong to some other associations, or some other media that broadcast the programme not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other countries much larger than Croatia. This is where we come up with a problem called on HRT by over 3,500 employees. Probably those who come to HRT used this space a lot for, let's put it this way to entangle unnecessary workers, there's, there's no problem, we'll hire on HRT. HRT has accumulated among other things the number of people you probably need in the operation and in the production of the programme and in the transmission of the programme. I don't know if anything's changed since the Transmitters and Liaison Company came out of HRT or maybe some other firm, because that's where you say that your transmitters and connections are a huge burden to pay for concessions, etc. I'm saying I don't know. But what exactly happens on other commercial televisions? First of all, they usually have one channel, they have little space for the information program, very little. They got it for the journal and maybe a few more in the program. HRT has four television channels, four television channels plus the one intended for diaspora. It takes a lot of people to follow up on all that program, which will fill out the program. And in other media, it's de facto that they can form smaller teams, offer them better business offers for employment, so to come to other commercial televisions at the national concession and then try to make a brand out of the information program and put it before holding a central journal that went at half past eight, I've now heard that HRT is thinking about so the Dnevnik starts at 7:00, but I don't think that HRT should be racing with others. HRT has a public role, and I've always shared that opinion there. To whom should it be proved? Well, HRT will always make a bill-by-law subscription because it is a need for the state. So I don't think HRT should look much in that direction. And in the end, I'm going to say one more thing, they often accuse one, the other, who has authority on HRT by political discourse or no one mentions at regional levels, regional concessions, regional television, regional radio stations that are most often, which we know from other reports,... owned by cities and counties or not to say political parties, and unfortunately no one is talking about it. HRT is a role model for everyone here, there must be plenty of room for this in these media. Maybe sometimes because of the fact that we know what our condition is on the local media, I'm guessing it's also being passed on to HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102349	On behalf of HNS Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102350	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, right at the beginning, I will say that we will support this report for a number of reasons. First of all, because it is a business report and secondly, because the report is a positive opinion, i.e. a positive position, given by the Croatian Parliament's Supervisory Board. However, I will also take the opportunity here to comment on a series of thesis we have heard, but also to present some of our thoughts. Public service is not and cannot be at all better than commercial services in the audiovisual sphere, especially when it comes to radio and television because it is guided by other criteria, other standards. However, the fact is that there are and that is why it works in public service, a whole series of comparative areas dealing with HRT, which other TVs and radio stations are not dealing with, where there is therefore practically a monopoly. There is also what others do not have, and this is a stable revenue from the fee paid by viewers and then the question is always whether these two comparative advantages that HRT has are used enough. And we always spin and spin and go back to the same things, so the question is what we've done when it comes to children's program, the programme for young people, the documentary programme, the drama and the film program and the kaja information program. As for information, I think, and I'd be happy to defend that HRT doesn't have any yellows, but there are too many blacks. HRT's information program, especially HTV, has been set up for the last three years so that under form or ego objectivity it actually shows the whole world around us and one 10% brighter than the worst Croatian daily that precedes brainwashing and destroying the confidence of its readers. So many news shows begin with black chronicle and black news, and so few have any other life at all, as if no other life is taking place, that the question arises when you watch Croatian radio television after two or three years or you come to take a gun and kill yourself or throw yourself off 10 floors because you have no future. There is no society that can guarantee you any future. Everything around us is black, they're all thieves, they're all bandits. Our daily life is the life of the Black Chronicle, everything mocks and mocks everything. There is absolutely nothing that is important, there is no one to be encouraged, to be pointed out, to be treated, and that is what I want to say about the information program. The choice of guests, the choice of topics, the way it is done is so suggestive that it is no wonder that either from the left or from the right appear those who complain about it. There's little objectivity here. What HRT has done over the past three years conditionally said in the development of civic education in Croatia. How many Croatian citizens are more able to understand political terms, categories, events after three years. What do they know about the EU anyway? Did we even join the EU after HRT? So what happens in its institutions at all, and we know that 50% of all the laws that are passed, some say even more and regulate our daily life and obligations are made in the European Parliament and the European Commission. And what do we know about it? How many HDZ representatives or SDPs or HNSs have been sneered at by some initiative, how many times have they had to report to the European Parliament. Well, that's total nonsense. The way the European Parliament works is quite different from the way the Parliament works, but this competition in reporting for a word that is completely pointless, which has no impact on decision-making is put first. The statistics of some representatives in the European Parliament are more important than the fact that last week we almost put a noose around our hotel industry, and at the last minute we reacted that European institutions changed their position because Croatia changed its position when it comes to the directive on travel packages. You won't hear that anywhere. What battles are fought in European institutions is of no interest to anyone. When we talk about Croatian broadcasting, it is clear to me that commercial television is not interested because it does not bring ratings, but it is important for us, for citizens who live under these regulations every day as important as what is happening in this House of Commons. But here, you'd rather shoot a segment where no one sits at this hour than report what was said at 8 o'clock in the evening, which is spoken at 19 o'clock and 8 minutes. No, what's said until noon is said, it exists. Is this objective monitoring of the work of the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia? Of course not. It's a laugh. We're non-workers and bastards. I return to what we have done in the area of civic education, that our people understand better what is happening, that they understand better initiatives for the referendum, that they understand better elections, the importance of elections, the presidential, the euro of parliamentary ones. How much did we build for the citizens? Isn't that one of the functions of public service? Because what didn't answer on TV didn't happen and what the television didn't say didn't happen. Well, we know that. Then what did television say or do what he said? How much smarter are we today? How much more do we use our citizens' rights, our obligations as citizens? Are we aware of the importance and importance of the work of Croatian Radio and that it is she who can open perspectives for people to really believe that they have power, that they have knowledge and that they can change things, not that every day they are killed in the notion, that they are actually told that they are incompetent, that they are sinking and that they will never get out of the crisis, that they can't choose, that they are being led by the bad ones. All the time, they have this potential, and no one can raise their hopes and confidence, because every man as an individual is free in his being and able to change the world. No, we won't live to see that. How much did we use the fact that 20 million people speak our language or understand our language? 20 million. In the entire region of HRT is the strongest, most prominent, with the longest tradition, has the strongest contributions and can affect public opinion. It affects public opinion. If I'm in the middle of town, the capital of neighbouring countries people stop because they recognize me means they even watch the meetings of the Croatian Parliament. What did we do to take advantage of our influence? Well, we're practically the only country in the region that's a member of the EU. What message did we give them? Is it at all worth entering the European Union, what is happening on this side of the EU border? Is it not in our best interests that they believe in the better tomorrow, that our neighborhood may be stronger? What have we done to exploit that 20 million people understand us when we speak our own language? Let me give you some examples, for example, of so many mentioned drama programs. Yes, there was a time when the Gruntovites or the Little Mist were accompanied with equal interest both in Nis and in Djevdelija and in Kranj. No matter what they heard, they didn't understand because it was something they really needed to hear, see, because it was a great product. What have we done in the last 20 years? We've been drilling our chests so much with national identity, taking care of national history, taking care of national culture. Do you know that HRT has not produced in the last 20 years any single drama series that would focus on the famous Croatian giants? Come on, Matoša, last year was marked the 100th anniversary of his death, Tina Ujevic, this year 60 years after his death, Miroslav Krleža two years ago 120 years ago. Come Meštrović 2018. we will celebrate 130 years of his birth. Ivan Mažuranić, 2014 marked the 200th anniversary of his birth. In 2015 this year, 125 years of death. Nikola Tesla 2016 160 years since his birth. Svetozar... , Stjepan Radić, Ljudevit Gaj, Slavoljub Penkala, Lavoslav Ružička, Rudolf Steiner, Vlaho Bukovac, there is not a single drama book about them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I will take the largest capitalist Josip Jurj Strossmayer, the man who covered the huge eras of the entire Illyrism throughout the 19th century until the beginning of the 20th century, who was a personal participant and witness of the most important historical events from the moment of taking over the crown of Francis Josip to the Vatican Council until the creation of a modern civil state, modern parties if you will, the creation of Croatian civil institutions, the unification of Croatia after the development of the military landscape. So many important people met that time that you can't believe that someone didn't remember to make a drama show that would cover 60, 70, 80 years not our own, but European history. And I am sure that a partner could be found for such a project as a producer in both BiH and Serbia, in the Czech Republic not to speak, in Bulgaria that celebrated the 200th anniversary the other day, and we barely remembered. These are capital things that connect even the entire European culture. Well, isn't that a card? There's a lot we can do if we want to. I'm sorry, this is also seen in these reports, that the Director-General and the Supervisory Board do not speak the same language. That's too bad! There could and had to be a way for cooperation to be established, regardless of having entirely different roles both under the law and under the Statute of the HRT, there is space. I'd like that to happen. This is a competent supervisory board according to what questions it asks, what it wants, what it requires, and can only help the director. I'd like to see a successful HRT, not only when it comes to business, and there's the CEO with his team getting positive grades, but also when it comes to core business, and that's the program. Because, as my colleague Stazic said, there is no exculpation of responsibility. If I'm putting people who are responsible for it, then I'm responsible for it, and that's perfectly clear. We wish to improve human relations, that HRT will no longer be news in black chronicles as it was recently due to suicides, scandals, layoffs. Of course, I wouldn't let those who spread blackness around me into the program if I were in the decision-makers' place, but I'm running that one is not everyone's thing, but everyone's for something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102351	Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102352	Thank you. Well, you've done a lot of work on the software content of the HRT programme itself, and you've devoted a lot to the first part of your debate on blackness in the information program. Well, I would certainly agree with you in part, but perhaps you should expand the actual ink has unfortunately affected Croatian society in many segments, and it is my impression that it is not so much about what HRT will publish or what its information programme will be like already simply related to the fact that the Croatian society in this recession that has now entered in the 7th year is simply exhausted, confrontational and that we cannot, in these times, function more differently than in that blackness. And then you are, and I'm afraid that as long as we have 1.3 million people of all the remaining who work out of 4.3 million that nothing but blacks will ever be until we actually increase the number of employees. And all of this, the media, the work of institutions and the like will actually be only the collateral victims of the problem in which Croatian society is located. And when you said you were following the parliament's work on HRT, then you said it was a joke, so the Assembly's work on HRT is a joke. So then you, too, are probably unconscious in some way, and you yourself joined that black scenario, in fact, where we're all more or less involved, I wish you'd said so here I'm adding this as a light motive that we've suggested to the head director to transfer the Assembly sessions while they last on HTV 4 and over. I mean, we try to look for negative sides, positive sides of events, not just negative ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102353	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102354	I'll start with this last one. I don't think we should broadcast 24 hours from the assembly, it's not necessary, but we should have objective reports because there's something going on here at 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m., sometimes at midnight. No one alive knows this except the sadomasochists who after 12 hours still have the strength to watch the evening offering if it is available at all. How else do you call watching anything for 12 hours? It's sadomasochism. But it's the job of the press to make some kind of conclusion, to make a review of what's been said and what's been going on, not to get it done at 2:00 in the afternoon. You don't have to be here to know what's going on, but I'm gonna go back to the start of your intervention, so we can't talk business without mentioning business, that's quite clear. Because what does HRT do with its entire business system than produce a program? It doesn't make socks, it doesn't make newspapers, it makes programs, and then we have to talk about the program. Because if there wasn't a favourable business environment, the program wouldn't exist at all, and it would be much worse. In that sense, we welcome this report, but we have the right to be appalled by the way certain topics are handled. A country like nowhere in the world in six months has knocked out 3,000 people who have suffered from floods, so over a thousand objects and after five months journalists are looking for one or two people who will say all the worst against the government as if not one single house had been restored. Is that normal? No one has dealt with how it is possible that there are four hundred people in that area who are not allowed to be restored because they do not allow laws there. So is that the government's fault? What kind of reporting is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102355	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102356	Thank you. Comrade Beus Richembergh, and you're trying to do some things that happen in our reality as just blackness and blackness and in fact, in some ways, very little and perfiduously defend certain things and failures of this government that are truly unsuccessful. So you can't do it that way, it's very transparent what you're saying, but when you talk about our greats, I support you there. Unfortunately you used the word, mildly said, capitalists, I mean for Strosmayer to say that the capitalist is really funny. You have the Croatian word giant, and say capitalist we know what meaning it is used in today, so we also know that we also watched on Croatian TV a series of documentary or semi-gamed something about Rembrandt, and about de Vinci etc. Nothing, I don't need to compare these people, but really Strosmayer in Croatian history takes a very important place and it would be good and it would certainly be nice if we had some kind of series of life, work, action and success that Strosmayer left behind, and what they say in the Croatian people in institutions and in everything that Mr. Excelled Strosmayer archbishop Djakovsky left behind, starting with the Academy of Science and Art and beyond. But here's me instead of the show about Strosmayer we have the Black White World, which also in a perfidious way celebrates with 12 million kuna the costs of Croatian TV times that are behind us, which are past, and we will also have the opportunity to see the fact of the militia at that time just when, for example, my brother was handcuffed and beaten with an iron rod in 83 years by Mr. Misa Deveric, who lives and works in the City of Zagreb today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102357	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102358	Do you really think some perfidious wise men should defend this government? What she does should be defended whenever it's good, she doesn't need any perfidence or wisdom, but the fact is, compare what happened in Italy after the earthquake, the day today that province is not restored. Three teams running reconstruction jobs ended up in prison for corruption and theft. In 6 months, the Croatian government has rescheduled more than 60% of it with the momentum to end almost everything in the next 2 to 3 months. Well, it's not that simple in this situation, and now we're gonna say she didn't do anything? You have as many situations as you want. So what do you really think just what's wrong is actually a product of the government's work, and everything that's right to happen on its own? Oh, no, you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102359	And Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102360	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Richembergh, I agree with you on some software content concerning culture and science, and that Croatian television really should be preceded and should have a much stronger and stronger production in terms of cultural content and in fact fostering identity in the Republic of Croatia. Which, unfortunately, is not the case, so you singled out certain examples of the greats of Croatian thought, science, culture, music, etc. which I can only join because it really was for the Croatian HRT to expect its production to be directed in this direction, the more Croatia today, as an EU member, can certainly place such a type of programme across Member States that are certainly interested in a new member and who are interested in seeing what Croatia is offering to that new community. And most of all we can offer in the field of culture and science, and this is the area that is actually asking to be processed even better, and in this, Croatian television should contribute. But also if we are already talking about some content, I think it would be good for Croatia's spiritual health if Croatian broadcasting had been included in the stronger monitoring of the Perkovic process before the German court. In a significantly stronger follow-up rather than just to narrow down the matter to brief reports, one-minute, or two-minute reports, and thus to follow this trial which is actually very symbolic because it is not just a reckoning with an individual from that system or individuals who have potentially committed crimes, we will see what else the court will argue. I am not saying that someone is guilty before he is convicted, but it is also a reckoning with one system, totalitarianism and it is regrettable that this is happening in the Republic of Germany without being parallel to that in Croatia because it concerns Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102361	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102362	You know what, colleague Matusic, unlike you, I think Perkovic and his case didn't deserve a single June of our couple. Not a single one. And I look at him, at what they've been doing, with the greatest contempt possible, and I wouldn't give a lip to it. But if you think you should, the Croatian public is uninformed about it then let it continue to be reported. As for Croatian giants, some of us have called themselves capitalists, so when there is a capital act, there are those who created it, so they can be called capitalists, so these are great stories. Some of them, some of them you can make a humorous series. But they unfortunately have access to the TV calendar and it is the biggest door through which they can pass on Croatian radio television. I know it's not cheap sports, but television as such is not a cheap sport and it has a billion and 200 million kuna every year. So if a billion and 200 million kunas could not be found for at least one national project of such importance that they would sell to the Czechs and Poles and Bulgarians and to Serbia and Bosnia, they would surely buy. Or someone we could co-produce, so maybe it'd be cheaper, simpler. Well, isn't that a public television job? Well, whenever she did, she got a round of applause. Such shows were seen both five and eight times. And not to talk about what it really means to activate our creative potential, writers, all the experts on such big projects, actors. Well, that's what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102363	We're moving on to an individual debate. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102364	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm going to say about this report on the business of Croatian Radio Television for 2013. I will begin my debate by expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction with HRT's work as a whole because I can do it in two ways, as a subscriber, as an ordinary citizen but also as a politician, a parliamentary representative. And as a subscriber and as an agent of the grade, it's unique, it doesn't have to interest anyone too much, but for me it's describedly not satisfying. He didn't make it. That's what school says. It's down there. It's down there. What are the reasons for such an assessment? The first reason is that available financial resources, the hard work of employees, journalists who invest in the production of this product simply do not meet my expectations regarding professionalism, objectivity, the role of television, which is to educate, to inform and entertain in good time. I simply believe that this product can be better, much better and my assessment can certainly be subjective, no one has to be too interested in it. It doesn't have to be a... But I think a lot of people think alike. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another reason is that we often talk about HRT as cathedrals of Croatian spirit, it is one name that has settled in the Croatian people, meaning that when I look at four channels of HRT I should really feel let's say it in that spirit. However, this spirit has simply disappeared and all that remains of that spirit is just a name, Croatian Radio and it has been lost in these last year and Radmanovsija is being mentioned more and more and less Croatian radiotelevision. The product, the third reason is that, the product sold in terms of finance and the number of employees and we are talking about a billion and 400 million kuna and 3300 employees simply do not cause the satisfaction of the users and are the same through the law introduced in relation to HRT through a RTV subscription. I think it's actually the only challenge in assessing whether that television is good, i.e. Whether she's creating a good program or not, that particular subscription. What we don't pay or we don't have to pay simply or we don't evaluate, we don't evaluate, even though we've been spinning commercials all day, we don't grade. As we have commercial television on the side, as the connections to cable TV and television are based on the Internet protocol are taking more and more markets we have to compare it to. I just know what I get for 80 kuna. So I have another policy and we can choose for ourselves for 80 kuna what we want. And if in those packages, let's say we had to cancel the HRT so we couldn't look at them, and then we'd be dissatisfied. And we'd be dissatisfied with being able to tell our whole lives about HRT, and we'd miss that HRT no matter what it is. So just being and not being, we're always kind of disappointed. And then it just creates a problem. The basic question that always arises and I think that every user asks it is why for a billion and 400 million kuna we can't get one whole program that will satisfy the largest number of users, that we have enough top-notch sports, culture, top-notch entertainment, top-notch shows in all areas. That we use our time in front of television for objective, non-selective information that shapes and enriches our lives. We always have to be more dissatisfied. For what? Probably because these shows just don't exist. As a politician, our people are very political, from kindergarten to old age, i.e. From preschool to older, we're all in a way, we all recognize politicians, events, we feed on information from television, always the most from HRT. My personal opinion is that the policy of left orientation simply dominates the leadership of HRT, and then it verticalises itself simply through all activities only towards a lower multiplication. In the past three years, HRT has simply failed to achieve an even relationship between the good and objective information that comes from left and right policies. That's why today is a very, very lively debate. Many events have given more and more reason to think so. If in Croatia a large number of citizens are inclined to some journalists, some shows that suit them in their way of work, presentations, and then they are removed for no reason, we are rightly dissatisfied, and then it is also dissatisfaction. I will give an example to journalist Karoline Vidovic Kristo. No one understands why. It was precisely an opportunity to create good relations between the two policies, but unfortunately someone insisted exclusively on their own. The creation of daily information is highly prone to the propaganda of left-wing policies and it is not even hidden. Any weakness of government, ministers, affairs, bad decisions simply disappear as if they never happened, as if they didn't exist. In order to be informed, we need to turn the channel around and look at other TVs, i.e. commercial TVs. Just when you are ready to enjoy the contents that may be available to you by some show, there is always a journalist who, for the petty political interest, spoils everything and challenges a simple counter reaction. For example, some complete Croatian journalists and broadcast debacles, I will mention, although it was not in 2013 but I will mention it. The acquittal of generals Gotovina and Markac, she completely surprised HRT and journalists, were simply not ready for a liberating decision. They just weren't ready. That was a shame. The way some judicial action was followed, from arrest to trial. For some politicians you have a direct transfer from arrest to every trial and every hearing, for others you can't find out about anything. The face-to-face of presidential candidates were simply party colored and caused great disdain for people and users. The freshest example we have heard a lot about today but I will repeat it, the inauguration of the new President of the Republic of Croatia, which is a real shame in the performance, but also in showing a new HRT relationship to the institution of the president. From a fully-served relationship to a complete opposition to the new institution of the president. If that was done by the lady who ran that show, if it were an accident for the former president, she probably wouldn't be HRT reporter any more today, but each of them should do their part, and those in charge make decisions. The simple leadership of HRT, editors can't stay at the level I didn't know because it can say that they're all on the same left-hand side and I just can't recognize that there's an opinion on the other side. But then you can't even threaten those who are on the other side and recognize it as you do these days to some journalists. Simply if you insist on it and if you want to continue to be in it then you have to say that it will be SDP TV or that it will have a certain duration. Because there are also positive examples, the Earth's Fruits, the Sea's emissions, which have been going on for decades. Good morning, where it really is shown that top-notch journalists, undecided political, etc. can create visible shows that watch almost everyone in Croatia. You have been given a mandate to arrange these relations at all levels and all types of HRT in Croatia, not to turn it into a party and even less into JUTEL TV because it seems to me in some way in these times. For that money, I think it should have been done already, gentlemen, and there's no excuse why today's television and its leadership, but all the other events look the way it looks. I think the ratings or the number of signatures purchased that it is the only measure of success, and it's just not in these large numbers, and we've come into the situation that unfortunately you've become the second or third television according to the ratings of certain shows, and particularly informative. There'd be a lot more to list, but here's what I'm gonna hold on to. I think I tried to say very briefly why we have a problem with... and television i.e. The contents we are offered. Maybe I should mention, in the end, when I still have a little time and a subscription or something. the payment method, especially in the season when inspectors appear without any authority in the area of the island, coasts and begin to invent certain subscriptions that they send to home numbers, without the right address, without records with wrong numbers, of which you cannot find out any real information but you are setting up the executive procedures neatly. I think the time has matured to change this article of the law and to determine exactly what they are natural persons, to clearly separate craftsmen from ordinary natural persons who are not craftsmen to resolve this situation because in this way you have a lot of objections, especially in the season and after the season. Here's only for alignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102365	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102366	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here is my colleague, Boric, said that in your opinion editors, individual editors at HRT actually show their belongings to the left orientation, to read their political commitment in their statements and comments. So that not only would it remain that this is the opinion of individual members of the HDZ I invite you to read the statement of the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee who continues to say that it is the project so-called. Red Croatian. So these are the words of the President of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, not the HDZ, and to make it very clear, a way to put Mr. Radman's director as the project's contractor and connect him with former President Josipovic, etc. We know all his statements about red Croatia. I may not have gone that far, but it is very interesting that the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee's position, but also the fact that individuals, individual editors absolutely do not show their color and that they are left oriented, but they are exclusively advocating the values of the left and they certainly do not cover anything outside of that extreme left spectrum. So it's really worrying and it's not good to show up on HRT. Maybe it could be on some private television and tolerated, but on HRT absolutely not. Here in this sense is to say a very interesting statement made by the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102367	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102368	Thank you very much. Thanks, buddy. Well, I'm just saying, I've only cited some examples and why I have the feeling that there are only left-wing policies dominated. Because it's simple, even though when you turn one I don't know local television then we can see that there's only one other species, i.e. Right policies. But it's less important since we here, I say in relation to which the law forced us to create a relationship with HRT through the subscription, we have the right to evaluate and we have to be in some way objective and professional. An example of unprofessionalism. When we have the current clock here in the Croatian Parliament, the media will follow. However, how is it possible for a prime minister who does not answer a single question to be a hero of the day. So ask him 40 questions, don't answer one thing and he's a superhero in the Croatian Parliament that day. So instead of criticism, an analysis of what happens and direction in another direction you have a hero who hasn't said anything. Recently here, the vice president of the Parliament said a terrible sentence and a statement that his principled position was that it was not for the island's Glog to be the Goli Island of Yugoslavia, justifying the crime. There's no place to read about it like it wasn't. It's a shameful statement that didn't appear in any media. What makes me think? That Croatian media is clearly being edited from a single centre. I don't know where he is. It's not in the printed media, it's not in the audiovisual, it's not in the just... He's gone, he's just gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] See Logs 5 days in a row on RTL, New TV and HRT. So they all offer the same theme, each one at the same time, but at different times. At six and a half, seven and a half, seven and fifteen. You have a conflict over New TV and HRT at 7.30 when the strongest news of the day gives each other, so we're going to watch the one that is let's say the most objective. But unprofessionalism is shown not to be analysed, not to give the right picture, and that people live in error. It is the story of the media Croatia and real Croatia and these two Croatians are not touching anything today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102369	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102370	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, it is clear from journalists that big material is coming to Croatia from the field, so I am talking about the scope of the material. However, editors choose exactly as well as very often journalists say that in their presence the editor is constantly on the phone with someone while choosing the material. With who? Perhaps the Croatian Helsinki Committee gave the right answer about red Croatia, and it best speaks about what you mentioned only on the same time, and that is when it was delivered to our generals, then on Croatian television I know perfectly well prepared the show as if it were written by Savo Strbac, and it was written by an editor who has initials HZ. They'll know the people on the television, so where is the blackest description of both General Gotovina and General Markac? And when the prime minister was asked when you were talking about him, he said there were three two in the court's decision. Well, that's embarrassing! It's not embarrassing television, it's embarrassing of the Prime Minister. Well, it was as if he regretted that this was the outcome, so he says there were three two. That's terrible! That's terrible, but there's never one more, and you'll never see that prime minister's statement in connection with Gotovina and Markac's acquittal, and, uh, three two are gone again, as if turkey dots don't apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102371	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102372	Thank you very much. I, my colleague Grubisic, listed only two by me very important, let's say it was a complete fiasco. Bandic's arrest was a complete failure of HRT, and perhaps they were ready. I don't know, it doesn't matter that much to me. I'm just saying as objective let's say the viewer that I had to inform myself about something on some other television because you're simply interested in some events, some shows. Here's a new show that went well. In the election year, we have to cancel. Why? Because citizens have a lot of problems. And the HRT is headed towards these citizens, allowing many to decide something, to at least make it easier to say publicly what is bothering them, no. And now we're going to pre-election year, I don't know why you're ending it. Is it really a bad and failed show? I don't think it's how we hear it from the citizens. Other things that in some ways constantly question me are individual analysts who appear in a particular group of shows. You have analysts, let's say one analyst who missed the results of all the last four choices. He's still there and he's still credible. Well, he can't go there anymore. Well, there are young professionals in Croatia who can analyze the same thing or have fallen to 5 analysts. So give it to yourself, admit it already. He was four times completely missed, and I don't want to believe that he missed because he didn't know, he deliberately missed and deliberately tried to convince people that he was still the one who should still be doing it, that I wasn't talking about polls that were in the position of persuasion, not questioning. And they're still pushing themselves today, they're still pushing themselves, and we saw between the first and second rounds that they didn't show up, the presidential election. Suddenly someone got scared. Of what? So the political colour of television is visible and no one can ignore it, and the task is leadership, as well as journalists and all others, to bring it into order. Not in the pre-election year, in four years of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102373	Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102374	Thank you very much. Here I will proceed immediately, so Rimac, Lalić, Puhovski, Nadezhda, Cacinovic, so they are always in the analysis of political events. So we saw such statements jumping out of the screen that the comparison of the president of the Republic of Croatia to Gaddafi, with the tent, that's terrible, that's really terrible. And I'm not a member of your party but I find it very ugly to watch such statements. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. At this pre-election time, and I must say that it is pre-election, here is 12 million kuna HRT generously giving for a series of 12 shows in which we will celebrate the graces of the former state of SFRY and militia at that time and everything else at the time when, for example, my brother was sentenced to 2.5 years of Leprechaun for singing the song Marjana, Marjana with that heart of Jesus, etc. Yeah, well, that's the only thing that makes it a verbal delicacy, isn't it? But that was a great time, we're going to have a Psychomodo pop singing and we're going to entertain the people because we need the joy of what Beus Richembergh said, not just ink and ink, we need such a humorous one. Maybe we should've taken Chakal, rested his soul, 'cause he died, included in that show, so our people would be very optimistic and wouldn't move to Germany, Ireland and all the other countries. It's just the Black White World show. So, the future of HRT, so look, let's have Mr. Sruk, Radman, etc. tell us. how cameras and standers were purchased on HRT, who received both what contests and how materials were obtained for technological production, the basic one, so to speak. Cameras are of a kind, stands of another kind, so you have a picture from Osijek and Split when that Carmen Shore appears in the morning in Good Morning Croatia then freezes the picture. Just because they're not an adaptable camera and a stand. That's amazing! Look at the cameras of New TV, here I'm going to speak specifically, so I'm not an expert on it, but I've spoken to the cameramen what they call "I don't know cameramen" or "I don't know cameramen," they say there's some difference, right, but I might not mind if I don't say it right. So, which are more technologically advanced than HRT. So let's watch a news car, HD news car of HRT and other TVs. So, in the program section, there is a lack of school, children's program. There's been a lack of evidence. What are we giving? I don't know what they don't do, rockets or space movies, and I don't know what's not clear to me either, let alone children to make it clear. And that's all. There's something a little educational here and there. But remember, Mr. Radman from those years, and you and I, we've had quite a year, how school programs were. Now I've mentioned that Branka Cube before, etc., but they were really better quality than today, you have to admit they didn't want to. And it was time to watch it. Well, it was seven o'clock in the evening to the Dnevnik, up until half past eight, when it's gonna be some kind of kid show that was understandable to children, not getting shot at by some planes, shooting, falling, kids learning about murder at 3 years old, 5 years old in preschool. He kills each other like he does in video games like they kill each other. What... And that's what she was, and I was on the commodore and I still saw it together with the kids a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's move on. Where will the advisers from President Josipovic's Office go? Maybe that's not a question for you, or maybe it is. Where are they going to get a job? How many executives, so editors, directors, journalists, cameramen, are those who do a lot of HRT work? They say 500 to 700, from 2800 employees. You don't know what number that is, you don't know that. We don't even know the number of employees. But they say these are 500 to 700. So, will they go outsorcing? So there will be 1,500 of those who will do legal, accounting, and I don't know what kind of jobs, holding the HRT, and then they will rent, Mrs. German will hire the cameraman of this cameraman, the cameraman of that one, and they will pay for the outsorcing to come and record something for him. Is that the future of HRT? People who today film it in Knin during the celebration of the Storm at +40 degrees, on Sljemen at -15 degrees and snow to dogs, people who film the Alka which lasts 4 hours at +40 degrees in the crowd, who know what it is like with even the death of horses and runners who are on the Alkar track people are afraid and terrified of their work and are underpaid, are completely underpaid. Let's see, if we're all here today in a consensus to find out the salaries so we'll see what the salary is, and what is the salary of these executive employees or what creative workers and journalists say. Here, let's see. Give the coefficient systemization, the systematicization of all HRT jobs, let's, let's make it one time and let's already know the number and direction of HRT whether it will decrease, how much it will decrease. Here's what you have with this number of employees 42 million extra, I think you get it like that. So, the financial part stabilized, now you're turning your head, right? I don't know, I've heard that, so said Mr. Radman if that's true. If it's not, I don't know, I have no idea. So, if the financial impact of HRT's work has stabilised, it means that we have somehow stabilised in this regard both the number of employees and the business of HRT. If we want to increase in terms of productive HRT in terms of HRT production, I believe all these employees have work to do. It's another thing to do with jobs that are given to foreign companies or some copyright, so you have shows like "Potera", "Piramid", before I listed that "Step in Guests," etc. We know whose productions they are and we know that Croatian television pays for it, and we know in what way it would not be good for the financial police to get in or audit some kind of that. We know that she is employed as an assistant, an employee designer in an information program that has 32 thousand kunas, assistant to Mr. Runjic, 32 thousand says she has a kuna salary. Is that true? And I watched Mr. Lek on that radio the other day, and that was also on the fourth program when he was from the Parliament, Mr. Leco was, after the news show, at three o'clock news on Croatian Radio 1, and then they had a show with politicians was Mr. Leco. Five times Mrs. Sanja Rabuzin Pavić waved her hand to get someone out of the studio because he was constantly distracting Mr. Lek and Mrs. Sanja Rabuzin Pavić in the interview. Did you see that when it was, yes. So is it possible that on one of these prominent ones, for me, Croatia's television continues to be respected, and I prefer to watch it, except for the diary, in addition to the New Year's Eve. So, uh... where the fly and she show someone her hand five times to get out of there, he won't, he won't talk, I don't have time for Parliament president, so I have to talk like this, so it's amazing, so it's such a sloppy, amazing thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have a designer who gets paid for it. And when you watch the news of those in Good Morning Croatia that you have a woman who reads the news and behind it moves there behind some glass where it interferes with you, because of course the eyes follow the movement of some kind that happens on the screen it's normal, but you always have some movement, someone phoned, there someone just because they don't play ball in the studio. What designers do I don't know, designing that studio so that you don't see the side of the store being done, well that there aren't any other shops that might be more visible than the news behind the glass. Please keep your voice down in HDZ. So, what I was about to say was, and I haven't arrived in my first speech, I wanted to say about this production of these shows that are supposed to be broadcast on Croatian television, and the production is someone else's, there's another address and some other owner. And I'm interested, and I believe the other agents, how much on that job do these outsiders and others make? If he has this 5 in 1 in Požega so he has to drive, carry a camera, be a tonic, write something or follow up with some text, so as some journalist, not the cameraman himself, so send it to Zagreb, so five jobs are done by one man, 5 in 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102375	Now 10 minutes are up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102376	All right, I won't do it anymore, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102377	But you have more replicas. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102378	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I don't know if you've heard a familiar statement from the Croatian Helsinki Committee that referred to the consequences of the law that the ruling majority passed, which says: "The consequences of the adoption of this law are very serious since it has suspended civil society and values that it represents in modern democratic societies. This puts HRT in place as the political concept of red Croatia. The strength of the manipulative moment of this concept could be witnessed by monitoring the campaign that had just been completed." I fully agree with what HHO said, and as an illustration, I will rely on what my colleague Boris was saying about analysts. Look, you have political analysts who were members of the UJDI, so the Association for the Yugoslav Democratic Initiative, I think so, and I may have made a little mistake, but that is the association that was founded there in 89 or 90 and that opposed Croatia's independence. And members of the association today at the political, main political analysts at HRT. So what are we talking about? Well, of course, the concept of return is, among other things, I hope that this series will at least make fun of the values of communism and totalitarianism, at least I hope, this series, that we will not spend money to propagate again for a time that was truly disastrous for Croatia and that brought us back not 50 but 70 years ago. And another thing about the polls, no one at HRT apologized for those polls, and we see that these same companies are still being hired to speak again to the public, although of course they do not respond to the truth. Therefore, it is also one area that we should discuss. On HRT, such surveys are untrustworthy and such companies that have conducted such surveys should never appear again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102379	Thank you. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102380	Thank you very much. I also see what you are saying and what Cicak has concluded, but I also see that your former Minister of the Interior Jarnjak, the minister of the Interior, is very private with Miso Deveric, a former bailiff. So who am I supposed to trust anymore? He retired, but when he wasn't retired there he sat with him in the car in front of the Parliament, went on, to AS to eat and drink. I would not like to talk about it, in all lines of the parties there are those from the former system who have been high-ranking, it is sad that Croatia has not performed the lustration, so many would not sit here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102381	A little easier with state property. Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102382	You've actually brought up one whole day's debate before the end of today I think a really great idea, where the problem of HRT is, there are still 700 of those who produce the program and so, more or less, it depends on the good part of the external productions, even to get rid of those 700 and then actually these 2,000 that don't participate in the creation of the program calmly and we have our television. It is truly tragic that this HRT programme is increasingly dependent on it, of course there is a lot of interest, a lot of material interests and that this television is state-owned, that it, as well as unfortunately most state-run systems, works quite hollowly and is quite weakly defending public money and public money is because it comes through the subscription of Croatian citizens. During this whole day's debate of me and probably many citizens have come to you, and of course people have various ideas, given that I have been contacted by many who complain and the sports program that we have not mentioned today that Croatian television has more or less stopped broadcasting the Croatian Football League and people are complaining. People say we pay for the subscription of TV, we can no longer watch Croatian football on Croatian television. ... So Slaven Belupo versus someone, that because some people live where they play the famous Belupo and want to watch this famous Belupo versus Istria, or against who, yes, they can't all watch just Arsenal and Manchester United. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So people in Croatia live in the territory of all Croatia and want to watch these clubs and their cities and areas where they live and that is the Croatian Football League. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102383	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102384	I'll start at the end of my colleague Đurovic. So I live near the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina in Slavonski Brod, so I switch the one to digital, what's called a digital signal and get Bosnia on, excuse me Federal Television, FTV and watch Zrinski and the Wide Bosnian League, what can I do when I'm out of the Croatian League. ... Yes, unfortunately, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what you said at the beginning means you confirmed to me that it was a good thing that I stayed here and that I actually had a heart and guessed at the very end, a good thing that I didn't give up even though I was being persuaded by the HDZ to give up because they were in a hurry at home. ... Yeah, and one more thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll read you a short message, "Well done, Dr. Boro," one of you said, "We've received a lot of messages, texting, so." My son worked on HRT and as a beginner and after 12 years he always had the same salary, he was a master of the electrotech scene, he had the same salary of 5980 kuna, so he had to leave, say hello and an apology to some Hope, I don't know which one and maybe the woman has the hope of getting better. So here's just to read one of the messages. And how many Mr. Runjić has, and how many Mr. Sruks have to tell us now here. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102385	We don't have any more reports, and now they've come forward for the closing word. Who wants to go first? The head director of HRT, Mr. Goran Radman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102386	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here let me briefly at the end of this long day, once again it is confirmed that this topic is extremely important, that it causes a lot of enthusiasm to participate in a debate that always abounds with rich ideas, suggestions, comments and, of course, with criticism on the account of Croatian broadcasting, me personally and other responsible persons. But I would take this opportunity to highlight the two by me recognized I would say the whole of these discussions which in some way identify representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament with the importance of the topic of Croatian broadcasting. First, I thought I might have missed that almost all participants in the debate confirmed the exceptional importance of the support this Croatian High House gives to the autonomy and importance of the autonomy of Croatian broadcasting particularly in the part relating to the fulfilment of its programme laws defined by the contract of established obligations and duties. I haven't almost heard a single discussion today, not a single suggestion that would sound different than that. I thank you for that, all of us and you in the Parliament today. In our leadership, too, it is a great honor to defend this Croatian institution throughout the years that it has lasted and succeeded throughout all those years. Worked for almost 90 years, TV for almost 60 years, the following year will be the anniversary. Witnessing how important this institution is for the life of this society. I assure you that without this support, without our common views that this support should continue to be given, this institution would not be able to meet its social obligations. It seems to me that in some ways it has shaped the positive attitude of today’s participants in the debate. It was also interesting that you pointed out the fact that Croatian language is something that is extremely important for the performance of this public social function, Croatian radio television and almost everyone agreed on it in the assessment, of course that Croatian broadcasting is currently showing weakness in fulfilling this important mission. So promote and promote and protect Croatian as one of the key elements of the cultural and national identity of the Croatian people. I can and I don't have to agree on all the grades that are given here. First of all, I would say that we have an extremely good language and speech service that really cares about language and speech in the context of our opportunities and that we also have a number of weaknesses in how these concerns are really transmitted and implemented in the programme. One of the bigger and more serious problems that we have had is that, indeed, the opportunity to participate in the programme has been given to some people who, when selecting or applying the selection criteria for coming to HRT, have not been applied to this assessment of their ability or sufficient education for these roles. We recently had one reception of trainee journalists, a large number of interested young people who wanted to get this. For almost 7 months, we conducted a selection procedure, someone called it even a process comparable to that of NASA astronauts, but one of the important elements of the verification and criteria applied was their education, quality of their language, their ability to improve and develop to the extent that HRT should be satisfied with the quality of standards and language and language and speech and literacy. I personally do not agree to the thesis that it is possible for a journalist to be good, rated as a good journalist, without being able to speak, read, write or anything else. I personally wouldn't agree to that HRT standard. I can allow there to be capable journalists who could not be confirmed to have these qualities, but I could not justify them as HRT employees. There's been a lot of talk here about the HRT Act. I am sorry that this is still an important topic, and it is obvious that during the previous period of reconciliation in this House, there has been one break in the way in which the Law on HRT should be arranged, to make it truly to the satisfaction and trust of everyone in this House. I personally think that the high level of consensus in this House of Support for the HRT Act is extremely important, as I personally think that the high level of consent and support that this House should give to a key man, which is the head director of HRT, is necessarily raised to the highest possible level of law because it suggests that around all these decisions that determine the fate of HRT must have a high level of political consent, and consequently the decision, or support of this home. And if there is a chance that the HRT Act is discussed again, and I would welcome that, I will personally be inclined to support any solution that will raise the level of political consent, and then ultimately and support it because it is truly remarkable and I feel it on my back every day. I can only confirm that while I am head director, and I will be until the moment until this House decides otherwise, I will personally promote the key needs of political neutrality, independence and independence of HRT in the public space of the Republic of Croatia. Without it HRT cannot fulfil its function, its mission, its legal and contractual obligations. I personally in these two years as director-in-chief I am in a position of course to arbitration, listen and talk to key political people, with people who have different views and opinions and I think it belongs to my public function. At the same time, I can confirm that I have not been exposed to any pressures, no blackmails, no requests for any kind of favor that would lead me as a man of cca as a professional to compromise my decisions. I agree with you in the impressions that the HRT programme as a whole cannot indeed be evaluated fully and politically balanced. This specifically refers to that segment of his that I myself speak critically of, and the work on the informative contents of Croatian television is individual and that in these two years I am struggling with the needs and my determination to bring this part of HRT to the level of organisational professional organisation in which I can testify on a daily basis much less about I would say activists and even political activists, and much more about professionalism, about high European professional standards in journalism and all that I would like to mark HRT. Find a way to keep it, and I'm sorry with Mr. Stazic in that part and I'm divulging, my responsibility for what's going on because I don't refuse a moment's responsibility, it's really mine. I was here this morning on that opening part talking about how I don't have the authority to edit the program, that I don't have the authority to determine who's going to participate in the program, that I don't have the authority to choose or replace editors and set up editors of the show. My only authority is to place on the proposal of the director of the programme the editors-in-chief of the programming channels and to make sure that they meet their law established and contracted obligations and, of course, if I find that they do not do so to relieve them of their duties and to conduct a public tender, a public procedure for selecting others. I don't think the law itself will solve this key problem of the relationship of authority and responsibility. He needs unity in this high house first of all. A Finnish radiotelevision that we will all agree is a country of high democratic and ethical standards has an interesting example. The General Director of Finnish Radio Television is elected by delegates, one per delegate of all parliamentary parties. The key criterion for choosing is that they are all in a consensus, so that they together make that decision. They choose him for an unlimited term because they have the right to change him in the same way that they have appointed him, but they give him full confidence. And it has powers that are at least when compared to my much more significant and larger than those I have. Nevertheless, I am only talking about how the legal normative solution and the procedure provided for by the law envisaged the selection process will not be a key solution to this problem, perhaps a significant detail. There's been a lot of words here about wages. I received a table and a proposal or already a final form, and it seems to me a proposal that the HDZ club will form for this debate. I can only say for myself the following. I myself have never been an obstacle as a man to make such information public including, of course, information about my salary. However, I draw attention to this House that if you want me to give the order to do so, I am afraid we will have to change the Labour Act, the Personal Data Act and the Croatian Radio Television Act. I allow the possibility of this being different, but I from my position personal data related to the payout of workers' salaries, employees of Croatian Radio Television without their personal consent cannot give their decision. This is a legislative House, it has the right to interpret or amend the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I'm at my disposal, because I think it's a completely unnecessary element that we're diverged about. I don't guard them, I don't support them. Payments on HRTs shall be paid in accordance with the Labour Act, in accordance with the collective contract, in accordance with the systematisation of work and tasks and labour norms and shall, in that sense, be fully within the framework of what HRT institutionally allows for payment of salaries. I found a practice from before that wasn't transparent, I changed it, I canceled it. Secret contracts and I don't tolerate them because I don't think they're appropriate to our business. The fact is that the balance sheet for 2013 shows one piece of information that you personally saw as indicative of this argument. However, the total amount of income paid in Croatian broadcasting in 2013 except for the individual salaries paid to employees is also burdened by additional fees that entered the balance. Thus, in 2013, a lagging part of the regress was paid for all employees who had not been paid in the previous years, so he also burdened the mass of personal incomes. In addition, compensations were paid to employees who, under the restructuring programme and under the proposed programme of encouraged departure from Croatian broadcasting, decided to accept the programme while using their right to pay compensation, since these amounts were not originally planned part of the financial plan, they burdened the plan with excessive amounts, however very little, not significant but excessively compared to the initially planned funds for the item. It's a similar story with lawyers. A lot of that was said here. I can hardly imagine that it is possible to implement this idea that everything is taken care of by the Croatian Legal Service, which is currently numbering 6 lawyers. The amount of legal cases, procedural cases, administrative and regulatory requirements towards Croatian broadcasting is really beyond our ability to deal with them all properly. Croatian broadcasting applies within the framework of its scope of the Implementing Law rules and really allows enforcement procedures to be carried out through law firms specialising in this regard. Their costs are neither burdened by the costs nor by the revenue of the HRT but by the perpetrators, and unfortunately this is one fate which you have had the opportunity to witness here when it comes to other executive procedures. Indeed, some times and for very small amounts, the cost of the execution is much higher than the amount charged, which ultimately remains to HRT. But I would like to assure you that before such an executive procedure occurs, at least when it comes to these two years, we are doing everything we can to make sure that we have properly informed those persons, warned them of possible consequences if they do not do what they need to do and to comply with the legal obligation. The simplest way that, of course, rarely anyone decides to make is to log out a receiver that is actually the homeowner. And although we warn that if the family or the holder of the obligation does not have financial opportunities to pay the fee often, they do not do so, of course, which creates a legal basis for the application of the executive procedure. There was a lot of words about whether or not the tax was high. We can talk about this more than once. It has, it is a delicate mechanism and is a dominant practice in European countries when it comes to financing public broadcasting radio to use this model of funding through the so-called so-called “. ” special, i.e. specific taxes, i.e. one form of tax paid by different persons under different laws. So there are examples of different, but the model is basically the same. It was created long ago by BBC FIU and is in some way used in all other countries. The fee, i.e. the subscription in the early 1990s, was defined in individual terms as the equivalent of the daily newspaper purchased. At that time, an additional argument was used that it was the price of a daily ticket in the city transport of Zagreb at the time. Today the price of daily newspapers as you know somewhere between 6.7 kuna while the daily amount of fees is calculated on the equivalent of monthly 2.60 kuna. Therefore, the income was significantly lagging behind compared to the one time, and at the same time both the scope and structure and then the intensity of the Croatian programme commitments was dynamically increased without the regulation being changed. However, it is also true that these 80 kunas in total share of GDP are relatively high, since the gross national product, meanwhile, has fallen indicatively from some other standards. Visibility and obedience are really important elements of the validation of what we do. And it is good that you have warned that this is not the only criterion to measure the success of the work and achievement of HRT programming functions. The data we use today as comparable data are the same ones that apply to commercial television. So we use the services of the same agency that is meant by its methodology and the way it collects these data primarily commercial functions, which is to inform advertisers whether their stake in advertising that they have paid achieves the appropriate effect. And it's based primarily on so-called. A sample of some 800 devices that accept households is installed in order to register, and their will decides whether to register or not, which at the time when the button on that device is pressed is really the people ahead of that television set. The question and validity of this information is high because it does not allow for the calculation of either absolute ratings or even relatively to the extent. Especially given that the way they look at each other today and listen to the programs has changed dramatically, and that I would say the classical stationary way is no longer the only one, and often it is not the only one that is relevant. So let's say the data we get from the cable operator looks quite different when it comes to the ratings, the current viewership of the program. But it is true that apart from the number that people look at, we really know nothing about the structure of those viewers. So your data is not comparable. But when all the effects are summed up, so download content from the internet, viewing software content via mobile platforms, through earth distribution of transmitters and connections, and via satellites, ratings and listening to HRT programs are incomparably greater and incomparably more present than any other radio and television operators in Croatia. Because, of course, it's impossible to compare and the value of that content even though you've often said it today we're primarily software producers and we're only secondaryly broadcasting it. In the case of commercial operators they are almost entirely broadcasters or those that broadcast content and much less or almost insignificantly in the overall broadcast programme and manufacturers, or creators of that content. And this should continue to do so because indeed national relevant cultural social topics cannot be produced differently in Croatian rather than in their own production. You can't buy them on the product market. HRT centers, I think Mr Grubisic asked that, are related to the existence of our regional radio stations. Where we have regional radio stations today in the HRT system there are HRT centers. That there's a imbalance between the so-called. The continental and coastal Croatia does exist, but the result is, above all, the state we intend to gradually change. As you have heard, we intend to open a new radio station and we have already opened a part of the TV obligations of the new HRT center in Čakovec, which takes over the name of Varazdin because it will be a connected function and will perform such similar programming functions including a new radio station for northern Croatia and thus cover an entire area in which HRT was not present. We are considering opening these new programming functions in other parts of Croatia, wherever possible and where we will be able to use our own resources on the ground properly to improve our programme. There were some questions about the agencies, I can tell you that we don't do business through advertising agencies, that's a decision primarily by advertisers. So whether he wants to work directly with HRT or through the agency, it's his decision. I know there used to be favoring agency arrangements. We, meanwhile, changed our price list and our way of working two years ago, and I hope that this should no longer be a particular problem. Here, there are many more questions that have been asked. I will gladly take them on the basis of the minutes from today's debate again from I would say I hope the transcripts that I will receive in my insight or at least the services will help me sort them out so that perhaps, individually, those questions that have been asked and were not covered by these common answers once more precisely address them in a written manner and deliver them to you respected MPs. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102387	Thank you. The chairman of the HRT Supervisory Board, Mr. Victor Gotovina. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How can he not? He's the promoter, listed as the applicant, listed as the applicant, you have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102388	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of honor, esteemed MPs and MPs, above all, thank you for your contribution, objections, and remarks, suggestions and suggestions. They are a valuable and important contribution or framework for further work by both the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT and Croatian Television themselves. After such a discussion, which at some point is very vivid, I would say, it can sometimes be paraphrased a little bit and that joke and say whether there is a similarity or difference between Al-Qaeda and Croatian radio television? Yes, Al-Qaeda has sympathies. However, there is a need to somehow give you answers to some of the questions that have arisen and related to our report. The issue of salaries, the amount of salaries, or the receipt of multiple representatives, was mentioned, I would say that we discussed this several times within the Supervisory Board and indeed data were provided on salaries but without a name, since the amount of wages could be read the amount of tax reliefs which could reveal personal data. That's what we got from professional services. In terms of legal costs, the Director-General mentioned this, it has also been discussed several times on the Supervisory Board. Here, more than once, HRT has been mentioned as a public company or a public company, I would point out that HRT is a public institution that does not actually go in full terms under the Law on Public Institutions but goes according to its law and in that sense has specific bodies of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board with specific powers or functions. Mr Vukusic, at one point, mentioned a sentence in which he said that the Supervisory Board would do its job properly, I hope that does not mean that we did not do the job badly, but if that is the conclusion then of course I believe that the Supervisory Board should bear the consequences for its invalid work and I will personally do so. Several times the contract with ZAMP was mentioned, the pressures were mentioned. I must say that in making a decision on this contract in which the Supervisory Board has a role to play along with the Director-General, I must say that there has been no pressure on me personally, and when the discussion took place, I have referred all those colleagues who feel that the pressures are either subject to an obligation which is also legal and also personal or personal order to such pressures of application. They, if they exist in any case, contaminated the work of any body, so certainly the bodies of HRT. In the discussion, Parliamentarian Holly mentioned that the executive function should also be shared with the HRT Supervisory Board. I would point out that there have been some initiatives and the Supervisory Board itself may have expanded this one activity by entering the area of executive activity but we have all accepted and sought to act as a supervisory body, so without any executive obligations. I would point to the fact that some of the things mentioned here are not necessarily just from the period for which the report is submitted, from 2013, so I find it difficult to get these things out of preparation without being obvious, but it would certainly be time to look forward to them as soon as possible in the 2014 report. Several times, several MPs mentioned us sitting here as co-workers of the principal, we're not co-workers, we're actually completely separate bodies, and in this way we act completely separate. I have one excuse to say, Parliament's Glavak listed what it says on page 17 of our report that the HRT restructuring programme is not generally published on the HRT website. I have to apologize because it's the wrong information, wrongly entered in the report itself, it's on the HRT site under the organization and then the principalship. Parliamentarian Shuker stated that the report of the HRT Supervisory Board was the most conspiracitative thing he had ever seen, Assembly representative Glavak also said that with the figures this report was on you, you also mentioned that this was unsystematic and without a methodology report, that it was a bunch of things that did not belong there and that everything written indicates that we were not dealing with important things, i.e. that it was a terrible report terribly ill-conceived. As chairman of the Supervisory Board, of course I cannot agree with these assessments, colleagues have made time and effort to contribute this report to you in accordance with our legal obligations, but as a member of the HRT Supervisory Board, I would note that neither for the report nor for its summary I voted, and in that sense it would be inappropriate to comment on it. Also, Mr Novak said two different reports were delivered to this House. I would just say that I, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, delivered those reports in that text as they were voted. If it was a mistake then really for that mistake I apologize, but I couldn't get past that text that was written. Also, it was here from Parliament representative Novak that he felt that these reports, that this report was written by two people, one person who wrote the report, one person who wrote the summary. Given that there are satisfactory assessments from the allegations of irregularities and irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102389	Just a moment, sir, please, since the debate is united and the clubs have spoken for 25 minutes, let Mr. Gotovina finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102390	I would also say here that I, with this assessment as chairman of the Supervisory Board, cannot agree but that I voted for neither the report nor the summary, think it would be rude to comment on the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102391	Thank you, too. But now we have quite a replica. First of all, Mr. Radman's presentation, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102392	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Radman, now I don't know if I should call you principal, but by your presentation, I realized that you don't have any authority, so I'm a little afraid to ask you at all. He said, Mr., look, allow Mrs. Vice President, [[Don't beg me like that.]] It confused me because I wanted to ask you because I'm in my own replica, I was wondering if you were going to introduce sign language, so they're not only in adults but also in children. [[Intruder Zgrebec: He is the principal director.]] Well, there's a need and... , there is also a need for more employment, communication translators, Croatian Sign Language. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was mine, but really with no evil intentions because I realized you didn't have that authority, so I thought I'd ask someone else, that's what I'd be interested in because really that population of people, our fellow citizens, shouldn't be singled out. And HRT pays for them or their families. They are also interested in political developments. We recently had in Parliament the Law on the Croatian Sign Language. Unfortunately, there was none of the communication translators here, and that is the topic that really interested people who have the problem of incompetence. Kids can't watch cartoons, they can see it, but they can't understand anything because they're synchronized. I wonder if you can answer me now or if you'll answer me in writing or if I should make a written inquiry and get some concrete answer. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102393	Goran Radman's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102394	Your Honor, I'm, I'm sorry, but in that summary response I didn't,... So in the last half of the year, Croatian broadcasting has really worked very hard to advance the way we communicate with disabled people who are not in a better position to consume, or use our content thanks to the handicap they have. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I would only then stick to doing a lot of work and hope that these results will be very soon visible and allow me to provide you with a very detailed list of all these activities that we are doing together with the associations on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102395	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102396	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Radman, most of HRT's income is a public fee, we can call whatever we want. As soon as it's a public fee, all this talk about the Labour Act falls into the water of a collective contract. Why? Because the government has made its decision... in all public enterprises and institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's very interesting that the television that you're headed to can wipe the floor with any MP, politician, etc., because of not working, because of pay, because of this, because of that, but very interesting that it won't do so when it comes to HRT's leaders. Saying here at the High House, we're making a decision on your report, about everything that you can't get us paid. That's just funny. Don't be mad, but that's ridiculous. What are we talking about today? I don't know how much you're all paid for your job. And I'm not interested in the personal deductions of that thing, we're interested in what your net salary is for a million and one reason. Doesn't the publication of the pay of a parliamentary representative show personal data? So look, your TV shows an estate card with an address, with a phone number, everything on the screen is visible. And that's not disclosing public data? So are we even in this country or aren't we? Which, no, you can't say whatever you want, but it simply isn't, and I will prove it to you in all the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government made a decision on salaries, so the salary level for top people, businesses, etc., said the exception was only those on the market. That's why I told you 90% of your income is practically a public fee. And you're practically not on the market. Unfortunately, you're not. If you were on the market then you could talk a secret like this or a secret like that, but this one I think is funny, it's just funny here to be called to the Labour Act because the Labour Act has nothing to do with this. First, it's a form organization, and you, when you accepted those functions, had to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102397	The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102398	Dear Representative Shuker, so I repeat, I do not have any reservations when it comes to my personal salary, it is the subject of a decision by the Supervisory Board which you appoint as the Croatian Parliament which has the mandate to oversee and to the extent to which the law confers powers on him, of course to co-operate on some critical issues related to the management of Croatian RadioTelevision. When it comes to other salaries, we, in the status of a public institution in culture, enjoy adequate autonomy in business and indeed have the need for that autonomy otherwise would be interpreted as state television and would not be accepted in the public sector of European broadcasting television and radio because it would allow us to be treated in a completely different way. So the need for our autonomy and our own governance within the laws that we are prescribed is something that I am willing to testify. Once again, my view of it is legal interpretations, I will follow the law. Of course, if it proves to me that the laws can be interpreted differently, I will resort to legal interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102399	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102400	Thank you very much. Well, my replica is about the same as my colleagues Shuker. Mr. Radman, you've given us the impression that you won't deliver a salary report to us on HRT, we've now heard under the pretext that you would violate the Labour Act, contract provisions with employees and so forth. I would warn you, if you have such provisions in your contract with employees that they are illegal, exactly what your colleague Shucker said because your television is public, because citizens pay a subscription under the HRT Act, so they don't pay for the service they use as a private house. Therefore, I warn you that you must deliver this House of Highs a report on pay amounts, even if you should do so to every citizen under the Law on the right to access information because every citizen has the right to know where his money is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102401	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102402	Thank you. You're Mr. Radman and Mr. Gotovina repeated after you about the problem of HRT services doing these executive proposals. At this very time of recession due to the high growth in the number of completed and blocked many cities and utility companies in the territory of the whole of Croatia were transferring these jobs from law firms to their services because simply law firms charged between 200 and 400 kuna for these proposals, and in this first degree, it is only about sending a list of papers to FINA. And that's why I said if, I also read the record from the Supervisory Board where you found that you should hire 71 lawyers, that's probably what your professional services were setting up. It's completely inconclusive. No one in these jobs has hired lawyers to do it, possibly oversee it, and I repeat it again, this job of sending one of those acts where they will list the amounts and forward it to the FINAs by administrators both in cities and in municipalities and in utility companies, they can certainly work on HRT, only under the supervision of someone who would have it all. Of course, if that case goes to court later and so on, then it's handed over to the lawyers. This would be a significant exorcism for Croatian citizens because it is simply not the same if it is 80 kuna or if someone puts 300 or 400 kuna on these 80 kunas because they passed it on only to FINA. So I would like to invite you to see again and check this out a little bit more because this procedure in the first act would, in fact, significantly, make it easier for the citizens and you to have this relationship that exists. And when it comes to the receptionist logout, there are a lot of citizens and a lot of complaints from citizens that it's very difficult to log out the receiver. So I think it would be good to see how this service works out because citizens fail and when they want to log out the receiver.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102403	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Chief Director, I need to replicate. You said that the HRT centres were only opened there, mentioning the fact that there are adequate radio stations or probably you were thinking about concessions or frequencies, which is absolutely incorrect for the town of Čakovec. It doesn't exist, but they're trying to find your professional services free frequency. So, what was done in relation to Čakovec-Varaždin, I don't want to be placed on any side, I worked in Varazdin, and I live in Čakovec and I'm glad that at least something survived from it. But things aren't black and white, it's not just like that HTV center opened in Chakovec. The Međimurje County or residents of Međimurje County will pay 180 000 kuna each year, and you know it very well because you signed such a contract. However, what we could hear after 9 or 10 hours of debate, as if we were in a parallel universe. Mr. Gotovina managed to tell a joke, we didn't know how funny, you had a little time, if you had more maybe you'd fallen some better. And you've finally managed to tell us what I said about 10 hours ago when I started my debate on behalf of the club, people my word of honor is all right there, I don't know what else to do, I have no other authority. So we're staying with what we said, looking for answers to our questions. You're a very, very calm person, and we turn out to be some bad kids looking for answers to some impossible questions and it just ends every year. Thank you very much for coming, but we expect answers in writing, as soon as possible, and especially what the HDZ Club asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102405	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102406	Thank you very much. Dear Director, I thought you'd answer me in the light of the recommendations that take place, which I mentioned regarding the billing of RTD fees during the season. So at the 8th month some inspectors appear who have no right to enter either the property or come to say the entrance of the household or the household, but then they move into inspection in an unknown way. Data cannot be obtained in the municipality or in the tourism office, but they have a nice story. They say we're surfing the Internet and we know exactly what facility there are as many accommodation units. And then they write records that no one sees. No one sees them. As they have some numbers, then they send you some kind of reminder or some kind of debt that you have for the tv tax they've determined and then the procedure begins. You know how they send it? They write themselves Apartments Ana, that place, home number and that, and already there on that home number you have a household or household that is registered. So you want to charge a rtv fee under two basics. Totally illegal. And this is every season the only reason why the Law on HRT article 34 paragraph 8 states: "Legal and physical persons performing catering activities in a catering facility." a The Households and Households Act recognises. And you have inspectors who are very uncomfortable, who talk very uglyly, and that's what the citizens are complaining about. I have dozens of e-mails especially after the season. You simply forcely report people and hire them, and you have no right to do so based on actions that are unknown to anyone. If this will continue we are an unsettled state, because the law is clear, however, everyone interprets it in their own way. And these individuals are actually craftsmen, and not every household craftsman. And give it to me again and again. It can't happen every year. [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102407	Goran Radman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102408	Dear Representative Boris, I will be obliged to provide you with a written answer to your question, given that the subject is not known in the details that would qualify me to give you a qualified answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102409	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102410	Thank you. I hope, Mr. Radman, that if the Croatian Parliament adopts the conclusion, you will respect that conclusion and as regards the publication of data on the salaries of directors, editors, etc. which was proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community club and according to SDP club representative Mr Stazic, it seems to me that they too are inclined to support such publication. So I hope you will respect the Croatian Parliament's decision as the largest legislative body, and what Mr. Shuker said is absolutely correct and there are no obstacles to the publication of that data not even today. Secondly, at the beginning of your presentation of this final one you said that you thank all the clubs that supported the independence, impartiality and professionality of Croatian broadcasting, that this is very important. Yeah, they supported it, but they didn't estimate it was the current state. The clubs, not a single club said it was the current state, did not say that Croatia's broadcasting is now impartial. The more we said she was biased. He didn't say she was independent. And that's why we said why we think she's not independent. And he didn't say she was professional. In fact, we criticized and talked about Croatian, and the second part you looked back on it. But he got the impression that all clubs supported the current situation, which is probably both independence and impartiality and professionalism, which is not true. And in that sense, just to clarify it a little bit. That's why I answered the lines, otherwise I didn't mean to answer. And I mean, I'm entitled to a replica of Mr. Cash, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102411	Goran Radman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102412	No, Your Honor. I'd briefly just answer that it might be that we got it all wrong. I said, therefore, I welcome the unanimity of the need to support such Croatian broadcasting. I didn't think it necessary for us right now really the kind of time that I could agree to meet all these... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102413	Now, we're going to have two more replicas on Mr. Gotovina's exhibit. Frano Matušić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102414	Thank you. Well, I have to admit, Mr. Cashac, it's a little unusual that you, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, are actually building on the Board's report, so I figured it out. You said you didn't vote for it, not for the report, not for the conclusion. So I'm asking myself a question, I think what your role is if you as chairman of the Supervisory Board didn't vote for the Supervisory Board's work report and for what we got on our benches, then I'm asking myself if these are credible documents, which you were discussing. Bottom line, I don't think I know what this is about. Maybe I caught something wrong, maybe you were thinking of something else. But if it's about the Board's report, then it's really weird. It might be good for you to explain to the Croatian public regardless of the fatigue that is present with all of us, so we find it difficult to formulate sentences at the end of this difficult day. However, as possible, the chairman of the Supervisory Board shall in some ways be embodied from the report on the work of the Supervisory Board and from the conclusion reached by the same Supervisory Board. Here's what I really didn't find, and I didn't feel anywhere in the debate that someone could find any connection to Al-Quid and Croatian TV, so I don't know what hit you when you put it in the same context at all. I mean, that wasn't too funny or appropriate. But here, I hope you had another humorous episode on your mind when you said that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102415	Victor Gotovina, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102416	Your Honor, I have not voted in favour of the adoption of this Supervisory Board Report and have not been present at the session when deciding on a summary of this report, so I have not had the opportunity to vote on it either. When I voted on the report, I was against him, I had an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102417	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102418	Well, now you're clear, Madam Vice President, why I said I didn't understand why Mr. Gotovac was talking, because he wasn't there, he didn't vote. However, by law you want to talk about institutions, you want to know exactly how companies are handled and how the document is written when voting on some documents. You have the right to an individual opinion, you have the right to say what it is. But it's very interesting that I unfortunately have to say this, Mr. Cash, I didn't get the feeling when you were talking here that you were a representative of the Parliament, but I got the feeling that you were a representative of the HRT, and you're here today, and we're the man, because we chose you. You're our extended arm, eyes, ears, and whatever we want in HRT. And that's why I said this report was the most unsystemic thing I've ever seen. Because if you wanted to display certain financial indicators, either you had to make an original or indicate that it was a copy of something, etc. And this second count is unsystematic as it is. However, you said a public institution. Yes, but a public institution with public authority and according to a special law. These public authority Croatian citizens pay you a billion and 200 million kunas, not to you, but to television. And because the Croatian government has concluded with the Director a contract on what and who should be done and how much a fee will be based on it you are set up there to control it. And that's the problem that this report doesn't contain it. You can't tell us here that you can't show your salary, it's just not true. You need to see the government's decision and there's no labour law there because leaders are not employed under the Labour Act, it's management. And managers just as well as we politicians must be aware that there are no secrets about their work and their wages as well as property. What's the difference? But I'm saying, this is just ridiculous and I'm personally, if I were the President of the Croatian Parliament, I would never give this point to the MPs for consideration, in the way you've instructed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-26-0.u102419	Thank you very much. Mr. Gotovina is the promoter on the second report of the Croatian Parliament and has the right to speak. ... But he's the chairman of the Supervisory Board. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Cashman, would you like to answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the reports. We'll vote on that tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues are closing this debate tonight, and tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with a proposal for the Museum Law. And at 12:00, we'll vote on the debated points last week and this one and we'll complete the agenda. Thank you. 2013 HRT business report. The debate is final. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on HRT's business for 2013 is accepted. A year.". Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes 73 for, 1 abstention, 25 against. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The main director of Croatian broadcasting is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 14 days of the date of adoption of this Decision to the Croatian Parliament, which will include data on the total amount of funds spent on salaries and other receipts on Croatian broadcasting and the presentation of individual amounts of gross and net wages by individual jobs on Croatian broadcasting, starting with the director-in-chief of HRT, members of the HRT Directorate, holders of management functions, editors-in-chief and editor-in-chief of programmes and emissions.". Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most 97 votes for and four abstentions.
