ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118282	Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. According to yesterday's agreement to start working on the plenary situation of the Croatian Parliament meeting so that representatives' clubs can have their own need to hold a press conference in the Croatian Parliament from the Parliament speaker can use the time and we will leave that practice to the future assembly. And today I saw the hand of a respected colleague of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118283	Mr. President, it's not my need at all, nor would I raise my hand because of my needs, but because of the needs of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja and Srijema who are experiencing dramatic moments in this refugee asylum crisis, however you wish. They ask me to introduce the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public to the dramatic situation in these areas. So please for this break... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118284	I understand, I understand. Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the club, is a humanitarian situation. Next, colleague Damir Cain, I saw the hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118285	Mr. President, we witness the disintegration of the Croatian security system, the borders are closed when the country is threatened. Isn't that right, gentlemen? It's on the part of Croatia. More than 11,000 migrants entered Croatia yesterday, continue to enter closed border crossings. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118286	Comrade Cain, look for Yeah, that's right, so you'll put it behind the pay phone. [[Intruder Cain: Stanku da.]] Let your colleagues also sign up so everyone can have a chance to tell. Gold shower, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118287	On behalf of the ORAH club, I am also seeking a five-minute break for refugees in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118288	Same subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118289	Same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118290	A colleague of Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118291	Well, it's not my need, as Mr. Grubisic said, that's the need of the city of White Manastir, where there's chaos and I'd like to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118292	I understand, I understand. My colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118293	With your introduction, Mr. President, it's not about our press conferences that we could otherwise organize because of the same situation we're looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118294	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118295	The SDP will also take advantage of the opportunity to request a break for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118296	Same thing. Thank you very much. Great, we don't need a break, we have a deal. Need a break? Okay. I've got... No, there's no chaos, mate, no chaos, there's no chaos, there's no chaos, we're organized. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No chaos, no need. You want a break, you'll get a break. Oh, you've had enough for five minutes today. Nine and... No, this isn't all, this is on schedule. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is as agreed. ... All of us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, we have a deal. At 9.10 a.m. Thank you. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:10 AM]] I would like the honourable representative Bora Grubisic to present his club's position on the humanitarian situation in eastern Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is our right to the Rules of Procedure to seek a break, therefore there is no need for any remarks that derogate it. I wanted to talk about the situation in Eastern Slavonia, Srijem, so Tovarnik belongs to Srijem, to Baranja, to Beli Manastir where a large number of unexpected inflows, so however you want refugees, asylum seekers, or whatever you want, people, migrants have been joined in a very short time. The capacity of municipalities and cities in that part of Croatia is too small to accept all these asylum seekers. It's about the worsening or dramatic and security and humanitarian crisis that hit this neighborhood. In the White monastery, the government or government, Minister Ostojic or who, that there are 1200 seats, is now over 6, that cannot even be counted. Here's my colleague, Juhas, saying she's already 8,000 refugees this morning. People fall in the streets. Here are the pictures from the factory, you have pictures from Ilaca, from the White Manastir, from other villages, parts of the country that talk about it. Buses arriving at the Croatian border are to say people get off these buses, cross the border immediately without any possibility of any detailed control in Croatia and those municipalities that are to say borderline. And behold, from Ilacha, it is said that the ships of the Torah, and the Ilachs, are driven toward the white monastery. I wonder why these buses are not transported to other parts of Croatia by the government's decision, by the decision of ministers or ministers to relieve Eastern Slavonia if it is the human policy of this government. Our prime minister said that Croatia would only be one route and then focus the corridors towards other Western European countries, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Hungary etc. As he meant it if he knew and Slovenia so announced without any agreement and talks with these countries and with their offices or prime ministers, that these migrants should be directed. If there is no corridor according to, here is what happened in Slovenia it is an obvious example for you, Austria has also announced closure and spent, Germany too. What corridors are we talking about? What happens if Croatia is the last stop of these migrants on its way to Europe? And they're still arriving in a really large number, and from hour to hour, the images are getting more dramatic. From Osijek-Baranja County, by mayors and civil protection, he also sent a letter to the presidents of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and the government and to the Prime Minister and Minister Ostojic saying the issue is the moment when it can happen for refugees to clash with police. You've seen these images dramatically. Among these refugees are 85% healthy and young men. There are very few who go with children across our territory. However, the media is also censored and you see both in writing and in other media what is shown and how all this is explained together. Someone who's never been in contact with war, with refugees, with exiles, so that's what makes the government's policy and says we're going to calmly set it all up, forward it to the corridors to Western Europe, but has never had experience with war events that have come into this situation. So a man who without experience makes promises that stand, and does not prepare the terrain to fulfill those promises. And this is how it is now for the poor municipalities and thus impoverished by the policies of all the governments of the Republic of Croatia, so the municipalities of Eastern Slavonia, in Baranja, fell the burden of, above all, the human burden to take care of and materially to take care of these people who I say come really in numbers, someone knows how to say it in quantities even though it's funny, but in numbers that are really unbearable. Which is why the Croatian Government does not intervene if it already intends to take care of refugee arrivals in a human way, close the borders and fix the state of what has now happened within Croatia, to say if it will and temporarily, to deploy, there are ways to redistribute this number and pressure on municipalities in eastern Slavonia, in Baranja, Srijem, to the rest of Croatia. There's a way, you can talk about it and talk about it. However, there is nothing, here I was listening to the dramatic statement of Minister Ostojić who announced such things... but there is nothing of it so far. That's why we asked for this break by warning that the situation in Eastern Slavonia is dramatic and that a different reaction should be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118299	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118300	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. As I began yesterday, I will thank today everyone on the ground, by the police, the Red Cross, humanitarian organisations, citizens, religious institutions, etc. And I agree with Mr Grubisic that it is necessary to help Slavonia, the burden must be equally divided into everything in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, we also testified, gentlemen, I dare say, by the total disintegration of the police intelligence system in the Republic of Croatia. But it's nothing that's going to happen. In Croatia, as I say, for days, there will be 50, 60, 70,000 people, perhaps 100,000 people, not one winter, but much more winter. In no country has the security system fallen apart more quickly. The immediate shift of the heads of intelligence that instead of doing business, they're dealing with trinkets. When I said about 9.40 yesterday after this pay phone that the border had to be closed by Tuesday, it was only that it wasn't spitin' on me when I was coming back to the scene. I said then in seven to 15 days we'll close the border. It hasn't been 15 hours. The border's closed, but unfortunately, it's a leak. Prepare also for a wave of entry into Croatia through Bosnia and Herzegovina up on Slavonski Brod. Go immediately to Belgrade, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, down to Mostar, arrange a common policy, a joint performance. Help Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia if we want to help ourselves. We see in Brussels that we have nothing to count on. Bosnia and Herzegovina is preparing to accommodate more than 30, maybe 40,000 people in Bosnia. It's going to be a complete destabilization of these spaces. It is important to send a clear message to Brussels until these people come out of Croatia, and here they do not want to be in Croatia either. As many of them get in, so many of them have to get out. They do not want to be in Croatia, they assure us, the prime minister himself, the interior minister ok. That's something to be respected. But I am sure that most of these people who are here today will be stuck in Croatia and will not be able to come from Croatia. The way politics is run is shown by Slovenia's best. I live by the border, I have a lot of relatives there, I follow the news, I ask people, I ask friends. While our newspaper was full come this is your home ask Slavons now, ask the Zagrebans what they think of what we have today. They just kept quiet, they kept quiet, they didn't give a clue what they were gonna do but they were ready. At the moment they closed the border, and here in Croatia I feel I was the main target. I'm calling her from the moral police of some newspaper, the media. It was called Fascist, Ayhman, xenophobia, Putin, Orban, etc. And it's clear that those people who come in need of help, they need to be taken care of, they need to be warmed up, they need to be watered, fed. But I will also say that they showed only 10% of the aggression they showed to the Croatian police within 10 days ISIL could have been mastered down there. And those who enter will respect the Croatian flag, they will respect the Croatian police officer, they will respect Croatian soldiers, they will respect Croatian law and have to comply with our customs. And that must be clear to them. And no less important. Let the first people of the government, and I will say this to reduce their ego, not to label everyone around them, especially those who want to help, who warn, who are not responsible for this chaos. All the assessments, and we could have prepared ourselves from the mockery that Boro Grubisic and I experienced three months ago after this pay phone all their estimates were wrong. To speak immediately about the outflow of 100,000 young Croatian citizens from Croatia who have simply become forgotten. I feel for this tragedy, but there's something gentlemen need to do, and I have the impression that someone for the election wanted to use this humanitarian disaster. And just two more sentences. The winter is coming, the entrances will be on all sides of Croatia, perhaps 100,000. People will get sick, people won't be able to get out. Thank you again to the people who give them food. Better to give them food than to get into their homes because people just need to eat. Let's prepare ourselves for what follows us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118301	Thank you very much to my colleague, Damir Cain. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118302	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Clearly, the topic and situation that is in Slavonia or in all of Croatia about refugees is becoming increasingly alarming. I must warn you of something that the president of the ORAH warned about a problem that could happen in Croatia some month ago. At the time, it was very unseriously accepted and said no, Croatia was prepared for all. A little if it comes to Croatia Croatia will be able to cope with it. Now we see that even about two, three days ago, it was completely different information. It has been said that Croatia is prepared and that Croatia can do anything. What do we have in two days? That we have to close the border with Serbia. We have a situation for Hungarians to deploy an army at the border between Croatia and Hungary, to throw wire. Slovenia has closed its borders and where are we now like Croatia? Was there then an alternative what would happen if other countries didn't let the corridor pass. The EU cannot agree on refugees and in the end Croatia as much as it has a big heart, however sentimental it is towards refugees, because this has passed a major problem. This problem could certainly have been resolved completely differently that there were strategic plans, that there were certain preparations, and not only the statements that went in that section, no, you don't have to worry because Croatia is prepared for it. We know that refugees don't want to stay here in Croatia, they want to go to Austria, they want to go to Germany, and what, how do we take care of them? I agree with my colleague Caine, who says he's announcing a slow and bad time, a colder time is being announced, how are we going to ensure that these refugees adequately and take care of us here? In some moments, food was running out, and certain things were missing for refugees, clearly that the population was jumping in, clearly that the citizens who were clearly showing their part of their feelings for these people were jumping in. Because clearly it's about their fates, their chosen ones who gave where they couldn't live on their territory and decided to leave. We will slowly become the victim of something that we will not be able to deal with, and slowly these, the Minister of Foreign Affairs from Hungary calls us in a way that President Milanovic spent so much time preparing Croatia for the care of refugees as he called Hungarians when they started building a wall to be a completely different situation in Croatia. Clearly, this is a situation that is very serious. We need to find a way out of this. These people should be taken into account, but we must speak clearly from here, that both the EU issue and the EU's non-solidarity are not good, especially not good when an EU member as a Hungarian is deploying an army, puts a wire on the border, which clearly is not good and that these are the problems that will be faced with a great deal of EU as well. And the question is what will reflect the overall state and relations of the EU countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118303	Thank you too, dear fellow Tušak. Honoured HDZ representative Gordan Jandroković on behalf of the club And I apologize, Shandor Juhas. [[Intruder: Shandor Juhas.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118304	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. They're asking me what your attitude is. Well, there's no way of my people. As long as we discuss the position we have so far, we will deal with some kind of politics and try to take advantage of this situation that is now being created and created to score political points, which in my opinion is inadmissible. First of all, I would like to thank all the citizens of the White Manastir, all the Baranjas and all the Slavs who have accepted thousands and thousands of refugees wandering the city of Bela Manastir and Baranja. They've been through the Gorgull of the Homeland War and understand what it's like to be a refugee and what it's like to be a exile. Yesterday we also talked a little bit about this crisis, so they were different tones like this. I, as a Belomastian after what is happening now in the White Manastir and after what was happening tonight in Bela Manastir, responsibly argue that Croatia was unprepared for this crisis. Prime Minister Milanovic and security services have either not been familiar with or have not been informed or have misunderstood everything that is happening in our environment. Three days ago, we listened to more fairy tales here that we would take care of 1100, 1200 refugees, and today we have a situation that 8000 people are currently living in the White monastery, that in the morning four more buses came, brought to the city of Bela Manastir yesterday at 12:00 p.m. first information gets to secure the acceptance of 600 refugees. So what are those preparations? What are we talking about? Well, those people didn't start yesterday, those people left two months ago, three months ago. What's going on at Presevo? What's going on at the Hungarian border? From all this, I'm asking the Prime Minister to examine the situation, to call the responsible and ask for their resignation. You can't let that happen! It cannot be allowed in an orderly country that in one city of 10,000 people a bana within hours of 8,000 people we cannot feed because by way of the Red Cross it was asked to provide 1000 meals, people did not get to eat, water was on a mere misery provided. I'm looking at pictures of my colleagues, people sleeping in the streets, they're stationed in a barracks where before the war was a dog training center, they don't know where they are, they're babbled literally. We have to decide what we're going to do with these people, where they're going. They were brought here, we're not talking about now that people have crossed the border. They were brought in, someone loaded them in Tovarnik, loaded them in Ilaca, and sent them all to the White Manastir. At the same time we have a series of statements from the mayor of Zagreb, all cities are ready to accept. So what kind of organization is that? Why didn't we send them to Zagreb? Why didn't that detour in Osijek pull the turn and direct the train towards Zagreb? Someone is responsible for this, and we need to look for the responsibility of those people before we get into a deeper problem. And we'll get into a deeper problem because we don't know what we want. If we want to make a corridor through Croatia, then this train should not have stopped in the White monastery but should have gone 2 km further and unloaded them at the Hungarian border. If he wanted to make a corridor then the bus shouldn't have stopped in the White Manastir but to take them to the Picking top mile and a half and unload them there and let them go then, then we made a corridor. If we're going to frame them, if we're going to take care of them, if we're going to talk about it and act like Prime Minister Milanovic said the other day what I absolutely agree with, and I totally imitate what he said, then we need to register them, and then we need to take care of them because we're going to stay as Cain says for the next 5, 6 months because Hungary won't receive them, Slovenia won't receive them, etc. The Hungarians stopped teaching, the Hungarians emptied their villages in the border belt. And where are we in all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118305	Thank you, colleague Juhas. Thank you. Honored representative Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118306	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and we share the views we have heard so far, and I would like this not to be a political bickering now because there really is a problem and what really concerns maybe more than the situation on the ground that is really out of control is denying the government's representatives that the problems exist. Yesterday I saw the Minister of the Interior who wants to convince us that they are in control of the situation, that everything is fine, at the same time we have images from the field that are really alarming where and those who want to help can't help because people are being placed in inadequate spaces. One significant part of these people is completely out of control and state institutions and I'm afraid that really things have gone completely in the direction of verse, chaos, confusion. Today what I repeat is that the government is responsible, the government is responsible, it's absolutely certain. Three are the main reason for me. The first thing was the government and representatives of the government urged people to come through Croatia and that they would be provided with a corridor to Slovenia. This did not happen and there was no agreement that refugees could pass through Croatia. The representatives of Slovenia now speak loud and clear to you. It is also completely wrong to estimate the number of people who will learn in the country. We talked about 1,500 a day. We have in two days over 11,000. No logistics has been prepared. And third thing, no deal was made with the local community. In Eastern Slavonia, Baranja is completely without coordination here are the representatives who do not come from the opposition, who come from the authorities saying that they were not informed and that they did not fully know what was going to happen and what was waiting for them. No one from the state government spoke to them and coordinated. So what happens next? Do the other local communities know what's coming for them? Are the rumors true, the information that a part of the refugees will be directed towards Dalmatia and Istria? There's talk now, we don't know, we don't know exactly because we don't have quality information coming from the government's representatives. And that's what worries. The situation is alarming, the situation is on the verge of disaster and we have a government that denies the problem and pretends that this problem does not exist. And I'm asking you here together, not just from the opposition, but from the government, you too become aware of what's going on in the country and not to say that we're just criticizing, I'm going to tell you what we think we should do. Border crossings closed, we pointed out yesterday and asked for it to be done as a first step, now it is necessary to disable the illegal entry of people into Croatia. Just apply the laws of the Republic of Croatia as do other EU member states and those that are part of the Schengen. We should very soon become part of the Schengen, have mechanisms, have trained people, have the apparatus that is needed. And I ask you to take the next step really after closing the border crossings is to prevent the illegal entry of people into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Also, those who have entered Croatia should be properly placed. Is there a sufficient number of beds, do we have enough food, do we have enough hygiene supplies? If they are not needed in cooperation with all the competent institutions to find that people in these few weeks hope to spend in Croatia because they cannot imagine that all those who are here now will remain here forever, they will allow these people a dignified accommodation. Thirdly, there are a large number of people who are currently walking illegally to Croatia, should be registered and directed to the reception centres as well. What about them, do we have control over this situation, does anyone know anything about it? And the fourth is also an extremely important thing. Continue or start, I'm not sure what I'd like to say to the neighbouring countries. You probably followed during the night and during the morning reactions of neighbouring countries. Serbia's justice minister is mocking Croatia, says your humanity lasted two days. The Hungarians say instead of you objecting to us, you should have been preparing all this time. Slovenians say, Slovenian Prime Minister says the minister of the interior of the Republic of Slovenia lied and deceived the public that no corridor can be used and that Slovenia does not agree. What do we do now? So we've got more than 11,000 people with all the neighboring countries we've gone into conflict and conflict. Who's responsible for that? I'm asking the same question. So it's important now, we have what we have, we know who's responsible, but it won't help us solve our problems. I propose that he come here to the Croatian Parliament of Interior Ministers and present a clear strategy, a clear plan for the next period, which will be the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118307	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the House Nenad Stazic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118308	Thank you, Your Honor. The problem exists and the problem isn't small and it can't be small when such a large number of people enter the country running from war. It is not easy to solve when neighbouring countries west of Croatia close their borders and do not allow these unfortunate people to enter. But the situation is under control. The Croatian government is doing its job. Unfortunately, the border crossings to Serbia had to be temporarily closed last night, temporarily until they were peed and taken care of by people who went in mass and past the border crossings until they were taken care of, so if they needed to, the crossings would be reopened to help people. Croatian citizens, Slavons, Baranians first of all, but then everyone else shows extraordinary humanity. They give their hands to the unfortunates who flee from the war of executions, share humanitarian aid. It is only embarrassing that some politicians who try to score cheap political points in another's accident and here in the Croatian Parliament are acting. It's the shame of this Parliament, the shame above all for those who do it here. Grubisic is talking about the collapse of the police system the moment I look at police officers holding small children on their hands and carrying them. What an insult to our officers, colleague Grubisic, what a terrible insult. Bandic offers his house for family accommodation in order to reach the front page. Cain would have fed the people, so Juhas would have unloaded them from the wagon. This is about people who are dear to each other, unfortunate people who don't feed Cain and who aren't unloading from the car. So, Juhas knows exactly what car and what truck should I put in place, shifter. And HDZ is spreading panic here and HDZ is spreading panic here for the second day unnecessarily. It calls on Croatia not to act diplomaticly enough. So why didn't the president hold meetings with her colleagues from European countries, if someone wanted to meet with her, so why didn't she move her office from Vista to Tovarnik temporarily. That would be an action. How in this shameless way people try to score points here, forgive me, it's something they deserve but every conviction, but every conviction. Thank you very much. I'm listening to the news report on the radio from Tovarnik this morning, listening to the report. The situation is completely calm there, the situation is completely calm, news reports say. People are placed on buses, taken to temporary centers, stopped there, registered there. There is no panic, there is no panic except in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118309	Thank you very much. I will almost repeat yesterday's evaluation, I must, because this is without saying without a debate, we are giving views, views of our own and politics, so we are in the Croatian Parliament and that is good. But the conclusion is for the public that there is no unique view of the problems that seem to exist. So it seems to me that the general consensus here in the Parliament is that today's situation should be addressed on humanitarian principles with security elements and with social conditions. Another thing I'm saying is that no country in Europe, no institution, I've read the report from the European Commission this morning, there's no solution in the sleeve for refugee migration, so the translation that I've received is, therefore, the migration of refugees. This does not mean that Croatia does not have and that it does not have to work to bring its plan into line with the real situation. We all agree that the number of elements affecting it is only a humanitarian problem, a social problem and a security problem. When an item is passed that is acceptable for our terms, then it becomes a security and social problem. But colleagues and colleagues, neither do pre-election rhetoric nor fear of wise and responsible policy-defining. That's what the government of the Republic of Croatia does. How successful? That is not possible to say because neither she nor Europe know how many waves of refugees are still threatened by the EU. But let's give her a chance without pre-election rhetoric. Thank you very much. We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899. We have a table, which was made with the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club No. 1. ... We don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please take it easy. Any objections? Okay, raise your hand, ask to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118311	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this amendment to the government that we received yesterday, we didn't have a chance to discuss it. Because if you look at the replicas of the MPs in yesterday's debates, then you'll see that the grotesque MPs were talking about the problems of people who have loans at Raiffeisen Savings. If the government had proposed such an amendment then it would not have been discussed in the Parliament. So this amendment of the government came late and I've replicated one 4.5 times on this subject and surely this amendment was like this so that we wouldn't discuss it the way we discussed it. So this amendment came out of my hands and I don't see any reason why it could if 60 or 70 or 80% of the debate even if it had come at some time past the government amendment in this way, I think it's extremely inappropriate that this amendment solves one shame on this House of Commons. Six months ago, the HDZ club twice proposed a conclusion to address this problem in an identical manner. And it would be good if you read the government's argument today why that conclusion could not be reached at that time. And answer to the written question of the government of fellow Boric. So it's a shame compared to why six months ago they didn't... Then this is a pure pre-election joke. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it couldn't be done six months ago and now it can be done, then I don't know what we're talking about. And finally, this amendment, if it came during the debate, came to an end. So the MPs couldn't discuss it because the government wants to cover up its shame because it had no feelings for helping Croatian citizens. And there's one provision, but I'm saying I can't discuss it, but I'm asking you to put this amendment under discussion so we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118312	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118313	Comrade Shuker, incorrectly this statement of yours, you may say so at a conference for the press of your club. And in the opening statement, the finance minister explained the amendment, announced it, and he came in during the session, we discussed it almost 18 hours ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118314	No replica, please. ... Please, so you're looking, so of course, you're using the Rules of Procedure, okay, break for... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intruder doesn't understand. Well, yeah, a break of 10 minutes. All right, you're looking for a break. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please take it easy. There's time for everything. Who wants a break? ... Cain wants a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nenad Stazic. Srdjan Gjurkovic. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break. At 10:45. It's 10:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118315	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] First, Ivan Schuker, on behalf of the HDZ club, will state the position of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118316	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that many colleagues are not present in the assembly to hear of another manipulation of the Croatian government. Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament in Article 196(3), if the final draft of the law amends and supplements the laws, amendments may only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. And now look, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to amend the Consumer Credit Act and proposes Article 19, and the Government gives the amendment to that Article on 19th and there would be nothing disputed if these proposed amendments and amendments to the law did not stand in Chapter 4.a, which states the conversion of loans denominated in Swiss francs and denominated in kunas and currency clauses. And then the complete article of the 19th talks about the subject of conversion, and the Government amends that article 1 and says articles 19 and 19j are added, which do not speak at all about conversion. And now some legal experts and law-writing experts say that in the article and in the chapter entitled that credit conversion is also an article that states that the subject of conversion may cost something that is not at all. How can the law be complemented here? And colleagues and colleagues, that was the intention of my intervention, that was the intention, to publicly state what the government is doing from this Croatian Parliament. And we can argue now, reading from the phonograms the minister said, but the minister said something before the government made it, and according to the Government's Rules of Procedure, the minister shouldn't have said it before the government made a decision. But colleagues and colleagues, this corpus delicti, so we were offered an amendment that was pushed to a place where it didn't belong. So the government could if she wanted to go with the amendment we were discussing today and put it to say it was Article 20, 21, but she can't put it under conversion. Because colleagues and colleagues, they can't say that the integrity of court proceedings and says the integrity of the contract and the consequences of nothingness, I mean that's ridiculous. This is all made under conversion and then added Chapter 4.b, etc. And why is it all done together? Because colleagues to Boric in April, on April 7th, the government of the Republic of Croatia replied that practically this problem cannot be solved. So if he couldn't get rid of it in the 4th month, but you know what happened in the meantime, and that's why we asked for a break to say it publicly, 19 Croatian citizens were left without their real estate in Opatija. And you know why, because the government hasn't responded to the conclusion that was proposed in this House of Commons. Does anyone take care of those 19 people? These 19 people lost their property because the government said something could be done in the 4th month, and now suddenly when people with credit problems in the Swiss franc want to solve it, let's get through this. And I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, Minister Lalovac mentioned this part in his opening section, so it doesn't turn out that I speak one way or another, but he mentioned it before the government made a decision, and the Government made its own Rules of Procedure saying that the amendments were accepted, etc. The government must make a decision and this amendment to the government has arrived in the afternoon on the benches. He's here. But colleagues and colleagues, at least at the end of this session, we could at least give ourselves a little dignity, and we could at least give some dignity to these 19 citizens who were left without real estate and we could at least give a little dignity to those people whose agents, lawyers, public notebooks, during the summer, were breaking into the yard and taking pictures of their properties. But I'm saying, I guess politics and politics are more important than anything, and no matter what anyone claims, I'm saying this can't go to chapter 4, so you can add a, b, c, d, and it can't possibly be an article 19, because if you add a chapter 4a, 4b behind chapter 4.a, then you can't go on with article 19 being further because article 19 ended with Chapter 4.a. So if you added chapter 4.b, then you could put in article 20 and count as long as you wanted. But I say, the Emperor is naked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118317	On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118318	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of this amendment, this law absolutely needs to be passed and there is no dilemma. It's true what Mr. Shuker is doing, that 19 people from Rab because of the change of jurisdiction, the court's jurisdiction in Rab, in Opatija, have lost all their property. However, there are a few more moments. Just before I received a text from Mrs. Borka Vojnovic from Velika Gorica, who says she is now in the process of implementing her property. We're adopting this law that we're all going to raise our hand for, because this is the law we need, and at the same time during the same day, the courts clearly don't respect anything. Instead of guarding the border, the police have time to deal with performances that won't be possible in a few days. I agree, the Parliament will only now pass the law. So far, the courts have been able to do and do what they wanted. But I think that when it comes to the work of the police, they could act according to the Prime Minister or Government. What we also need to do, that all these people who are disembarked should be returned to their apartments as soon as possible. Secondly, I would like to say that Raiffeisen cooperatives or rather lenders on the ground of the Republic of Croatia have done business without the approval of work as is said in this amendment. He mentions Minister 43. They didn't do business, they were vultures. Those who took the money, who got the money pardon from Raiffeisen cooperatives in Austria, actually got that money back here, but they should pay back the money according to the conditions of Raiffeisen Bank in Croatia. Those who overpaid them should be returned as it should be returned to those who overpaid do not know the Swiss. Until then, by the time the law enters into force, it will cease its performance. I repeat, I mention Mrs. Borka Vojnovic's case. This amendment corrects one long-standing injustice. Unfortunately for some, it's too late, but it's better ever than never. I had the impression that the courts in Croatia were always on the side of Austrians, not Croatian laws, not peoples. Let's let the people and our morals go. What should also be known as the Austrians took criminal proceedings against the first people of these cooperatives in Croatia received them both in the Croatian People's Bank and worse in Pantovac, the former president's office. The same thing was done in the case of the HIPO bank. Someone's protecting us, and they're being chased in Austria. They damaged Austria through a resolution, for example, when it comes to Hypo Bank but Croatia through its courts to punish such behaviour does nothing. Yesterday I said that Raiffeisen cooperatives wanted to make 7, 8, 9% to no one. But they wanted to get home to houses, land, property of our people as well as to the Swiss. Yesterday the same woman told me I took 100,000 euros in credit, the bank called me, asked me to convert into Swiss. He says I listened. In the meantime, I had to sell out everything, so I was hungry. For 100,000 of those euros, I've already returned 50 grand or Swiss. They wanted to sell me a house. What they're doing or what they did to Raiffeisen's savings under Mr. Macan's conductor hat from the PR... It's just terrible, it's for every conviction, and I guess somebody's gonna talk about this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a good law for the end, this is an honest law, but what matters most is moral, fair law, and corrects a multi-year injustice that many have left not only without houses and property but without marriage, and some, unfortunately, were on their own and raised their hands. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118319	On behalf of SDP representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118320	Thank you, Vice President. I'll start by saying the sentence with which my colleague Shucker ended up on behalf of the HDZ Club, the Emperor is naked. He now complains that the government's amendment came too late, that he arrived in a non-business way, that he was sent before the government's session, that the government was only making decisions about him afterwards, that we were listening to things. Yesterday's session started here at 9.30. A break has been requested to spread a panic about refugees. That's what you've been talking about for an hour. At 10:30 we started discussing these two laws, a united debate. The government's session was held at 10.00. The minister here, speaking in the Parliament, said, I read in the phonogram, "I'm just going to be here for a little while longer. Today, there have been meetings of the Government, and yesterday the Minister of Justice on the current morning also announced the resolution of certain problems that you have repeatedly highlighted in the Croatian Parliament the problem of lending to cooperatives and their presence on the Croatian market, and through this amendment it is added that the futility of the loan agreement concluded by creditors and credit intermediaries in the Republic of Croatia that did not have the approval, that the implementation is delayed, that is to say, all enforcement procedures until the finalisation of the procedure is passed, and that the jurisdiction of the court is defined in accordance with the needs of consumers the possibility to choose a court to resolve disputes from these issues. Said the minister here at this pay phone, and we all heard it. Everyone looks except the HDZ club who now finds the need to object. Apparently, I was saying yesterday, it seems that there really are two big parties in this country, one of which has a bank agent for the president, and one of them has a citizen SDP. Because now that we're proposing and adopting, we need to adopt a law that needs to save thousands of people from the collapse, from the raids now suddenly the HDZ club comes out here and tries to set us up to make mistakes in the procedure so that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you will challenge that law and you will destroy those people to the end, and all in the interest of these banks and Austrian savings banks whose interests you represent instead of representing the interests of the citizens. Well, we've proposed this law... Don't throw Shuker, don't be nervous! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't be nervous. Listen to what you're told. Besides, I'm not telling you, I'm telling the citizens of Croatia because they need to know. Now we're here, now in a few minutes we need to vote a law that will help those people, who will save them but HDZ opposes it, he finds this some kind of problem, he invents that before the cabinet meeting, the minister here said something, something he loved most, and everything incorrect. Look, it's all wrong. There in this House, a man must always be careful, you must never relax if HDZ is inside because you do not know when he will fail. This is a prank attempt, an attempt to trick this Parliament into voting something against business, and it won't. We'll be in line with the Rules of Procedure, we'll help the citizens of Shucker, we'll help the citizens of HDZ, we'll help them, we won't let them win you as bank agents. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118321	Please, please, a little calm. I ask MPs and MPs to enter the hall because we will soon proceed with the vote. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The break is essentially required to say so for the credibility of facts and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act. So we went a little far. Coli Stazic clearly read from the phonograms the time when the session and the government were held, when the plenary session on the subject of the Consumer Credit Act and the credit institutions that were joined in a debate began and read what the minister had said clearly and announced that the government had discussed that the minister had announced the day before and that the government had given the amendment. What my colleague Stazic did not say was that, in his replica, Mr. Lalovec's Finance Minister, who made it clear and confirmed that in this Croatian Parliament it was discussed and requested that decisions be made, so it is not denied what you are saying, and you also said what you were saying yesterday, and I quote the phonogram, "but it was very interesting 6 months ago around Raiffeisen Cooperatives could not have passed a legal solution about the delay of the exercise because it was illegal," I quote you fellow Schuker, "but I suggested that such a conclusion that the government refused and most of it in the Assembly refused. But now he can do it all at once. Wait a minute. What are we talking about?" So it is absolutely clear that the amendment has been announced and discussed and that you have gained knowledge and knowledge that it will be inside because you discussed it and then it is not doubtful that it can not be the same, and it has arrived in time in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, I'm not working on the protocol, so you can ask downstairs, but as far as I'm concerned, it came very soon after the government made a decision. Also when we talk about the text itself and whether or not this enters the Consumer Credit Act, the first sentence of the argument makes it clear in order to protect consumers and market competitors from unconscious business, etc. Therefore, I think it's high time we passed both law and law on respected colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u118323	Well, the debate took place this afternoon. Just for a minute, you're asking when the amendment came? The amendment came around noon, when it multiplied, look at the numbers behind the government's amendment, and more amendment colleagues, Nancy Tyrelli, came. So they came in time, they were announced, they were replicated. ... Well, the debate took place this afternoon. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we'll move on to the amendment vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119469	We will now decide on the discussed, discussed items of the agenda this week, but before then the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to submit a report to Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119470	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 54th session on 17 September this year, the mandate-immunity committee discussed a written statement on the resignation of Ante Jerolimov, addressed to the president of the Croatian Parliament on 26 August. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time to which he was elected should he resign. An representative of Ante Jerolimov began acting on 24 September 2013 as deputy representative of Bozidar Kalmeta from IX. election units as a candidate for HDZ and HGS. The resignation of Ante Jerolimov has met the conditions laid down by law for the termination of his representative's term of office, as well as the conditions for determining a new deputy representative. The Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Civil Party are in accordance with Article 25(2). The Law on Elections of Representatives ordered that the elected representative of Bozidar Kalmet be replaced by Josip Rimac. The mandate-immunity committee has established that the conditions for the termination of MP Ante Jerolimov's term of office have been met, and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the representative's term of office, Ante Jerolimov, on the day he makes his decision on his termination, which means today on 18 September, and to begin acting as deputy representative of the representative Josip Rimac, also on the day of 18 September of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119471	Thank you, too, dear President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I don't think there's any interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that unanimously with 103 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we'll move on to making an oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or the Chairman shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when called, rise up and pronounce the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads. Please, colleagues, a little collegiation. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Josepha Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119472	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119473	Congratulations, no matter what we're at the end of the term. In this remaining part, I want you to carry out your duties successfully in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, citizens and legal persons. Every good thing! We move on to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please be President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to colleague Gordan Sobol to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119475	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 55th session held on 24 September of this year, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office, USKOK, dated 21 September of this year, sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on 22 September of this year to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Josipa Rimac, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that she committed a criminal offence against the official duty by inciting abuse of the position and powers referred to in Article 337(1) and (4) in conjunction with Article 37. Penalty law. Josipa Rimac is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, unanimously, propose to the Croatian Parliament the decision being taken: authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Josipa Rimac, at the request of the State Attorney's Office, as of 21 September 2015 by the State Attorney's Office of 22 September 2015 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that she has committed a criminal offence against her official duty by inciting abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4) in conjunction with Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against a representative in the Croatian Parliament of Josipa Rimac at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to take action against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties in the jurisdiction of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119476	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage to determine the quorum first. Thank you very much. Let's see how many MPs are present. 121 MPs are in the hall, we've got enough MPs to be able to decide on all the intended points. Now, please, let's vote on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 124 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against, a proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119477	That concludes the vote, and we will move to a debate on the agenda. Ten. Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015: 1.1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2015 for: A) Croatian Waters B) Croatian Roads C) Centre for restructuring and sale D) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund E) State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks F) Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 1.2. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget and the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2015 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Articles 211, 212, 213 shall apply when amending and supplementing the national budget. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the state budget may not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget. In the course of discussions on changes and additions to the state budget, amendments proposed to increase budget expenditures above the amounts set out by the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget may be adopted provided that reductions in other expenditures in the specific part of the budget are proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is until the debate is over. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before the end of three days from the date of the debate. I now ask the Deputy Minister of Finance of the Mr., or, I apologize, the minister is present, Boris Lalovec, to explain the changes and additions to the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119478	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Today there are amendments to our budget for 2015. We'll start with macroeconomic projections that are much better than they were when we put together the 2015 budget so that some adjustments have been made in that part too. It means better macroeconomic conditions than expected primarily seen in GDP growth of 0.8% in the first half of 2015. So far, high-frequency 3rd-month indicators have indicated a continuation of positive economic activity. Taking both sides into account the correction of projected GDP growth from 0.5% in the plan to 1.1%. The biggest differences in projections stem from a more favourable movement of exports of goods and services than previously expected and a significant deviation is also recorded in the projection of imports of goods and services. The consumption projection of household and state consumption was corrected most while gross fixed capital investments were corrected to a lower level. A positive contribution to economic growth is expected from all components of the expenditure side of GDP, with the contribution of domestic demand being mildly pronounced in relation to net foreign demand. I would only briefly try to explain these positive macroeconomic indicators from the first 6 months that took place in the Croatian economy for the first 6 months. In the first half of 2015, GDP registered a growth of 0.8% compared to the same period in 2014. Inflation stabilised around zero and the average inflation rate was -0.2% in the first half of this year. Industrial production at an annual growth level of 1.4% according to calendarly adjusted indices. Traffic in retail also registered a real growth of 2.1%. A good tourist season, announced for the season, also the first half-yearly growth of 6.2% at the annual level. The average administrative unemployment rate was 18.7 and decreased by 2.3% at an annual level. The first 6 months of 2015, customs exports expressed in kuna, recorded an annual increase of 11.5%, while at the same time increased trade imports by 5%. All these macroeconomic indicators suggest that real GDP will be around 1.1 in 2015, and the government has decided 1.1, and it means very conservative, and we already have 0.8% for half a year now. We know that the 3rd quarter was also good for both the 7th and the 8th and the 9th months, so we really expect it to happen. In fact, this is also seen in the revenues of the state budget for 2015, meaning the new plan for 2015 plans to increase the total revenues of the state budget from 102.4 billion kuna to 108.2 billion kuna, i.e. 1.8 billion kuna. It is important to say that this increase in these revenues is not only resulting from an increase in tax revenues but also, in part, about 600, 700 million kunas departing because of the records. We know that last year we introduced many users of the state budget especially from the field of science, health and we expanded the scope of the state budget and the records so that they are now recorded in that section and their own income. Somewhere around a billion kunas, billions and 100 million kunas refer to an increase in those budget revenues coming from the tax sphere. So I'd like to explain their increases for a little while. So tax revenues are primarily due to VAT, an increase of 750 million kunas more pronounced due to increased consumption than expected. The VAT is realistically assessed. We already have better accomplishments at level 31.8. Also much more significant achievements than we had in 2014 so that all the measures we have actually taken in the last three years are seen in increased and consumption not only through better tourist season but also through increased exports, through growth of industrial production, through growth of traffic to little. It is also expected, it showed a significant increase in value added tax. Also, profit tax amounting to 440 million kuna, which is already being looked at on 31.8th in a better charged profit tax, although you know the reinvested profit measure made 3 years ago proved to be a full hit for businesses because they left their profits, invested, achieved positive results so that the recovery of the economy of the visit and in the increased share of profit tax payments. Special taxes and excise duties also increase by 653 million kuna. They are partly the result of the increase we made in April by correcting excise duties on oil derivatives and tobacco and the second part is seen through their increased consumption. As for the contribution, they decrease by 156 million kuna, primarily the largest part being, the reduction of 400 million kuna is due to a lower transfer from the second pension pillar where we projected that there would be around 2.2 billion kuna. It seems to me that alone, or today we've adopted this Pension Insurance Act where it's being transferred from the second pillar to the first pillar, so we'll see what the real effect will be but somewhere we expect about a billion and 800 million kuna. However, it will partially compensate for more favourable labour market developments so that the total reduction of that part of the contribution will not be fully due to a minor transfer of the second to the first pillar. And that's what we expect, that part of the tide somewhere around 11:00, at the 11th month. And we know that this part of the inflow will not affect the deficit measured by Eurostat but only according to the cash methodology currently in place. The proceeds from the assets also increase to better achieve concession revenues, and these were mainly payments from concessions in the telecommunications market. As for expenditure, the new 2015 plan plans to increase the total expenditure of the state budget from €119 billion to €12.7 billion. Also change... does not affect, the entire part is 1.7 billion kuna, it also refers to the part relating to its own sources and that part is recorded, and the other part is affecting the deficit itself. Those who influence the deficit are primarily an increase in staff expenditure, with the Ministry of Interior for 111 million kuna and the Ministry of Science also has 131 million kuna, meaning all the other ministries are within their planned expenditures for employees. We know that these are two still large systems that have actually entered the central wage account and because of their complexity of the calculation itself, but the effects of the central wage calculation are seen and in the now more realistic projections and savings, the cost of the employees, and these two ministries are likely to come to the level they were supposed to be working when they were planned. Also, at the Ministry of Science are provided, not only with the Ministry of Science but most of all the difference for jubilee awards in the Ministry of Science is the largest amount, so we mention it from 82 million kuna and 70 million kuna is provided for cross-border transport and 17 million kuna for capital investment in primary schools. As for the material expenditures, they have been recorded again, I say in this section, increased at an amount of 564 million kuna, but it is exclusively, once again, a record of expenditure financed from other sources and not affecting the level of budget deficit of the general state, because it will probably take another year for all of them to be a whole component and science and other ministries when they are involved. It'll probably take more time to record all their expenses. We've already recorded a very large portion of them so that it won't affect the deficit in that part. This part also increases further financial expenditures of EUR 178 million. The increase in subsidies, growth of 540 million kuna, is due to an increase in the source of funding affecting the level of budget deficit of the general government. In particular, these are sources from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund for Agricultural Subsidies, so that now and in this part of the budget, funds will be provided for farmers who should be paid in 2016 already in 2015, but this is in fact the decision of the European Commission and the European Commission has actually given all the countries the opportunity to use these funds instead of in 2016 and this is the exclusive transfer of money from the European Union. In addition, the funds provided under the Financial Ministry item 210 million for additional balancing funds for decentralised functions have been provided. Also 65 million to help local units and 16 million kuna damages caused by elemental disasters. As far as compensation for citizens and households is concerned, there is the most significant growth. 150 million kuna has been provided to provide additional funding for social benefits but most of the 100 million kunas relate to payments to families in the second pension column that were simply not implemented in 2014 and 2015, and precisely because of these financial gaps found in the system, these funds will be paid. Also, an increase in pension expenditure due to an indexation of 133 million kuna in accordance with price increases and wage growth. So that part is being exported to children of 90 million kuna who were originally transferred from the Ministry of Social Policy to the Ministry of Labour. There have also been significant reductions, but these biggest cuts will be in those parts of capital expenditure, and they are related to certain increases and withdrawals of funds from the European Union. Since you know that we have planned almost 7 billion kunas very ambitiously, the EU funds' achievements are much better withdrawn than they were last year, however, a correction will also be made in that part. When the final consolidated data are actually looked at, the overall budget deficit of the general government will be 3.8% of GDP which is 0.1% less than previously planned, i.e. the government budget deficit will remain at the level that was planned and planned somewhere around $12.5 billion. It is important here to say that this methodology will be what we did, that it will differ from the ESA methodology 2010. We are in the final preparations and in all future reports we will try because it is a very difficult and complicated process until it is established, and according to this methodology is reported the Croatian Parliament. So there will be some differences in the definition of deficits when it is final in relation to EUROSTAT, especially because of the inclusion of numerous transactions and a wider scope than we are covering it through the current methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119479	Replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119480	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you were talking about positive budgetary results. They must have been influenced by a gross social product. But it is evident that we have a billion and 800 million kuna surplus. But we expected from the opposition that you would better deploy them, take care of the excessive deficit and the excessive deficit procedure. Why am I telling you this? There are some in the gross social product and some that have also had negative indicators, and I mean agriculture. The third quarter last year was -4%. This year, first quarter - 2.8, second quarter -3. And what's just coming is going to be in the third quarter that's drought. But when we talk about other expenditures, other expenditures are reduced by 682 million kuna. The largest reduction of HRK 377,8 million relates to the Ministry of Agriculture, primarily due to the reduction of capital aid. Therefore, we still believe that these capital aids should have been left behind. We know certain items in the Ministry of Agriculture that have changed, but taking care of exactly what is happening in Croatian agriculture and what is going to happen in the third quarter, which is a huge drought should have been taken care not to touch the funds here, and we also had to take care of the excessive deficit that would have to draw the line at the end of the year. And we just had that chance because we had extra income.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119481	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119482	Thank you. Mr Minister, it is not clear why the deficit is not now being approached in the way it is done in the EU. For the past year, we had a very clear situation that we had to listen to from the EU that our deficit was 5.7%. We knew that in Croatia as well. However, you assured us that 3.8 is about 4% last year. Now you're already announcing as a deficit is going to be 12 billion. Well, that's not true. The deficit is going to be 5.6%, so it's going to be over 18 billion kuna again. There's no reason not to tell the truth today about the situation we're in. What you are saying to the Croatian public is simply not true, it is one way of processing or methodology that is not correct, which is not easy to comply with what we have as a bond, as an EU member. So clearly say the deficit is going to be 5.6% and over 18 billion kuna, respectively. There's no reason to deceive the public today, to repeat the situation since last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119483	Minister Boris Lalovec, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119484	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, at least you've heard from me every time and now in this introduction that when we talk about these methodologies very clearly I'm saying that last year when that deficit was, we were saying that this is about the methodology that is present, it means by the time of the methodology, and it's likely that the deficit will be greater according to the ESA methodology. However, when we talk about this ESA methodology then we know that last year we were also unable to influence, but it is likely that in the future it will take more care of public enterprises or when HZ Cargo does not pay three wars then all its billions and some million kuna loans fall immediately into that part of the deficit. And what he was saying and when we spoke clearly when it was, when the shipbuilding itself was recorded, which was recorded in 2011 the total amount of shipbuilding. And when it comes to their passenger transport, and you know we have certain guarantees according to HH passenger transport too if they don't pay. Well then there were mentions of how certain transactions were recorded at the Zagreb Airport, as they were recorded so that it was one process which will simply now, not only in the calculation of the budget but also in the making of some decisions on guarantees, about the overall restructuring of public enterprises that in this part of the deficits are currently being made. We work at the Ministry of Finance, not only at the Ministry of Finance, but through the whole methodology that when we approve such processes, we know immediately whether they can hold it, whether they can't do it and whether it will be recorded in the budget itself. I speak very clearly, and I have never deceived the public. So this is one methodology per cash principle, and another methodology according to the ESA methodology. Because in talks with many EU countries and colleagues in Slovenia and my colleagues when I was in Lithuania, they also have a problem with their public companies recording them. These are individual articles of the contract now, even when the contract itself is recorded, for example BINA Istria concession whether it is part of public debt and deficits or not. So these are so small things that they'll probably, in the future, take care of all these details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119485	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119486	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let's try to see the reality of expected macroeconomic economic movements and the estimate that the gross social product will be around 1.1% by the end of the year and thus higher revenues. I think a good part can be accepted that the country's growth and consumption will grow, because here we see that we're raising nearly 2 billion, 1.8 billion expenditures. So it's going to grow in consumption. We can expect that since it is still a good post season will also be the growth of personal consumption of citizens. We'll probably maintain the level of exports. But what's really questionable is whether it's going to happen is the growth of gross fixed capital investments of 0.7%. Why do I think that's questionable? Because in the first six months, modest 0.2% were achieved. And you'll allow the biggest growth achieved right in the first term when I'm talking about investments, because during the summer, investment is not doing well, and we know that the biggest investments were in hospitality and hotels. And by the end of the year, I wouldn't God know what to point out that there will be investments. Therefore, one rather optimistic assessment especially that the share of the country in this growth is negative. So, let me say whether it's 1.1 or 0.9, and it's not that important, but we really have to estimate that there's no major growth in 2015, and that's investment growth, that's investments, that's basically more employees, and that means a stable economic projection of growth and not just living on growth in consumption. And maybe that's something that also points to the main problems in the state budget that we have. As we can see, income growth is about $1.8 billion, and that's why we're going into rebalancing. But most of that growth we have from what part? We have part of the measures to curb the excessive deficit because we've raised the entire system specifically exciseally. Therefore, it is easy to enter into the maximum burdens of citizens and the economy because we have simply increased all the excise measures system and he wears it I would say except VAT which is estimated at this growth and the largest... Secondly, at the withdrawal of funds that should probably be used for investment in public enterprises, we therefore reduce investment and development opportunities because we are withdrawing funds to the state budget for the needs of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again, we're reducing the investment cycle and we're seeing how much we need him. And of course those third ones are finally, finally after 4 years, the harmonisation of the rules that even the actual revenues generated by the users of the state budget and which we have managed to get out of the budget, to hide, not to control what simply a serious government cannot allow, so we are glad to finally have these income increases regardless of which they are neutral because we have expenditures. But at least we can slowly control everything we can. Therefore, this battle to reduce the excessive deficit is present on the income side because simply everything we could have achieved. Unfortunately, the battle to reduce the excessive deficit is not on the spending side. Why? Because this effect of increasing income of 1.8 billion goes all the way to expenditure and we actually have a permanent problem of expenditure that is not in line with the economy, economic opportunities and taxpayers, and these revenues are simply not enough to cover expenditure. Which means we really needed to carry out a series of reforms. And now we are slowly coming to that assessment of whether reforms are needed during this four-year period and where have these reforms been left out? Then we'll see that the Home Office has a constant growth in salary expenses, at the same time the average salaries are very low, so the cops are underpaid, some police experts are underpaid but we haven't had the necessary reforms in four years. However, it is a shame that one ministry of defense that has much more than I would say the need for secrecy was able to control, implement reforms and enter into the system in which the government immediately went and that is the central central salary account and the police only this year and the question is whether they will enter. It just shows the ability of individual ministers, the responsibility of individual ministers for the excessive deficit and where we can find it. But even more embarrassing, the Ministry of Education. For 4 years, a system that educates no changes, no reforms and has not yet entered the wage accounting system. They haven't come in yet, and where it should have been simple because they're educated people who educate others. No, there's no reform, there's nothing. No, vice versa, the effects of increasing citizens' incomes go to the expense side because they can't control expenditures. No matter what reason. But if they had been in the central accounting system quite rapidly for four years, I would have said the needs for reorganisations and a different education system would probably have had effects. But it's not the only tragedy, you have a strike announcement and it's because of the low salaries of teachers and school teachers. And truly far lower than the other parts of the state administration or public service that have higher averages, so that's a reason for this kind of strike. And it is precisely the central account of salaries that should equalise the remuneration in the Republic of Croatia for all users of the state budget. We see here how much there was no responsible behavior, there was no reform behavior. Of course, what should also be said is that there is a huge problem in this budget and the revenue that we are making based on the withdrawal of funds from the second pension pillar. From next year, it's gone, it's gone. So, according to the cash method, there will be no enormous money for the deficits that he had in the state budget. Therefore, the government's responsibility is seen not only in raising obligations to citizens and businesses but also in how money is controlled, and this particular rebalancing shows that the government is ending its mandate without the desire to bear responsibility or to bear the outcome of a four-year mandate for certain reforms that had to be controlled and the expenditure side. And those who had to control the spending side because of low wages in the field and because of the huge problems we have in the pension system with deficits year by year with over 17 billion, and at the same time we have a low average pension or you are not the average pension of pensioners. These are the problems that will await any future government but the same government will be waiting for the problems that are present with expenditures that simply after the four-year term, this government has failed to control. What about the health care system? We don't have it here, they've separated, but let's try to answer if we have increased expenditure in 2015 for the health care system? Yes, according to the data we see 4.5 to 5% increased costs in the health care system, and it is said to be less. And let's try to give the answer that's most important, we've spent the recovery of health care institutions, whether at the end of the term we've made decisions to stop the resolutions because they've been successfully completed and re-returned hospitals to the counties, we're returning hospitals to regular management because after 3.5 years, I don't think we need to carry out resolutions anymore, but obviously we haven't completed these most important recovery and hospital healing processes and leave them simply to their founders for regular management, and that's after spending an enormous 5 to 7 billion kuna. We haven't finished these proceedings, and we still don't control the expenses. The expenditure is higher than we have income, so additional funding is needed in the state budget. That's roughly the cancer of the state budget's early budget, these are things that there is no doubt waiting for both the new authorities and the responsibility for why the deficits are too great. And now two words about the deficit. No more income tomorrow based on the withdrawal from the second pillar, so that and by cash methodology, the deficit will be over 5%. But that's not the problem, we want to talk about Croatian railways how many times have we talked about Croatian railways? In 2003, I apologize in 2013 it was due to complete the privatisation of HZ Cargo, not completed, not completed, all guarantees issued fall to the burden of the state budget. Shall we talk about HZ Infrastructure? And then HZ Cargo's burden takes over and shuts down investments. Investments are very modest, they're gone, there's no development, we're building ports, I don't know who he didn't have the railroad to connect them to the markets, there's no. We're investing in the Rijeka harbor. I don't know why. The railroad is from the Franciscan times. Completely destroyed the rail system. The only thing that matters is we invest in HZ travellers which is justified because we need to keep the passenger transport to the railways, but let's be honest with each other without subsidies, without the constant burden on the budget with guarantees won't be. Are we gonna talk about highways? We kidnapped 40 Lips, put into HZ Infrastructure that does not go into investment, put in Croatian roads to maintain and raise road maintenance standards but deficits that will vehemently burden every state budget that will grow deficits will rise. Why? So, payouts are due, profit on highways is not such that payments are serviced and restructuring is not implemented, they are only combined without any rational move on the management and way of spending on highways. When we compare ourselves to competitors in Europe it's unsustainable, it's unsustainable, it's... the highway, there's no need to move on because we're running out of time. Therefore, there will be no profit, but there will be no investment in these companies. Therefore, the state budget that the rebalancing has thanks to the burden on taxpayers, and the spending side we patch is because we have irresponsible ministers and minuses that we pass on to someone else. Bad example.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119487	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119488	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's counterpart Linic, I agree with you that it's hard to expect that GDP growth in this year will indeed be 1.1%. According to all forecasts, it will be safely below 1%, and I would be happy if it were significantly higher, I believe both you and I and everyone else in Croatia. But to send a clear message to the Croatian public, there is no significant growth in employment without a growth of at least 3% Minimum 3% can guarantee greater employment in Croatia. I'm going to quote a macro-economicist who said "we're having growth, but thanks to what," not thanks to the government's government and measures, because they don't exist, but thanks to ISIL, oil, sun and toughness of private entrepreneurs who succeed despite the government's products, they place and export. You mentioned the fact that unfortunately, profits were drawn from public companies and hands were put behind all those in public enterprises who wanted to invest, simply the new ones were taken away from them for investment in order to reduce the deficit of the state budget. And when we talk about the ESO methodology, you mentioned it a little while ago, not all debts are recorded by it. In particular, for the past year where 18.8 billion kunas were recorded because of the factoring that some things did not include in public debt, let's say debts in health because our public debt per year is growing 23 billion kuna and that is the fact that in the term of this government it will increase to 100 billion kuna and these are facts that we need to speak clearly and unequivocally of. As far as the educator strike is concerned, I think we can really support them... which is an extremely important activity without which we have no future and there is no better entrepreneurship for us and in that sense they have their own legitimate request, which is more because the prime minister has promised them that they will be a priority in increasing wages, that they will be first in line. And as we can see, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119489	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119490	I have to say I always have to look ahead and yet I'm optimistic. Why? and for the simple reason that state investments can increase economic growth, and by increasing national investment, you open the market to the private sector, and then it's simply multiciplining economic growth. And why do I think that's possible? Well, it's very simple, the Plamin wasn't even touched, it could have been very much in the huge phase of construction. We're going to talk about hydropower plants that need to be restored, are we going to talk about two refineries in Sisak, Rijeka, we really want to talk about oil and gas exploration and exploitation? These are all investments in which the state has either a monopoly or is almost 50% owner. And if there's a responsibility if there's money there, there's still a good part and profits and for the state's profits, they're being spent irrationally, they're being mismanaged, and that's exactly what the whole construction sector can run, the entire electricity industry, and we're not talking motor and equipment production. It's all quite a mechanism to fight seriously. They were all programs of this same government, the entire growth was done on energy. And let's be honest, we're importing oil derivatives that are absurd, importing gas that is absurd instead of exporting it. We're not gonna talk about having luck with the rainy years, but you know how it is after the rains come dry. What are we going to import 60% of electricity again? Well, we didn't do anything to not import that power. And I'm not talking about the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119491	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119492	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Linic, I agree with you that the problem of the state budget is in expenditure rather than on the revenue side. You yourself said that no reforms have been implemented that could have led to a reduction in the expenditure side. The government did not do it for opportune reasons, it is not justified but the government has politically assessed that it will not go into reforms that might be painful and the situation is so with the state budget. On the other hand, if the government did not enter those reforms, then it was not necessary to stop investments or, as you yourself said in your final part, the government did not implement investments that could boost economic growth. You mentioned now the question of investment in the energy sector, I also asked the Minister of Economy during the current morning that all those investments announced that at least a part of them should have been realised. Now you mention Plomin 3, the reconstruction of hydroelectric power plants I know the problem with MOL related to the reconstruction or reconstruction of the refinery, but none of the investments happened. On the other hand, investment in the public sector in the road construction section has not been stopped, and nothing has been invested in the railway infrastructure. Let's just remember that the government has experienced a kind of indignation in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs or Croatian HZ Infrastructure with the resources that could have been invested in the reconstruction of the Križevci-Koprivnica railway where the competition was twice falling, and I don't know at what stage it is now. So what I'm saying is that no reforms have been made, and on the other hand, investments have been stopped and the epilogue is what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119493	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119494	If I'm talking about my commitment, then I think it's a lot easier to implement reforms when you have a strong investment swing. Croatia which has its own energy, but unfortunately does not exploit it, unfortunately high production which means high paid jobs, we do not actually invest, and we have enough capital. These are not any debts burdening the state budget because they are companies with their own profits and are not a risk to the state budget by any methodology. And in such a cycle, believe me, it's easier to carry out any reform. Why? Do we have low salaries in the police department, we have low salaries in education and every reform that's being implemented, and there's no economic growth means endangerment and these low wages. And that is why reforms are far easier to implement if you have economic work but you have to implement them because it is unacceptable that you have completely disorganised systems both at the Ministry of the Interior and in education because they have not implemented the necessary reforms. And health care is hard to talk more seriously about since the solution is to get it out of the state budget completely out of control and control. And at that moment, you're wondering what's going on in that system. And you'll still have debt growth, unpaid drug bills, and always question how some hospitals are organized. You'll be allowed to have systems to prepare reforms that don't work. That's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119495	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119496	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, I have answered the line to discuss with you the two things you pointed out. One is the central salary account, so the system that started long ago. However, as in some governments before and in this government, some have constantly withdrawn by hand. It's not a central pay account system because it's all accounted for in one place and that's what we're done with. This system should have shown the diversity of the way wages are determined and some should have come out of that system of pay classes where work is paid rather than chairs. And as long as we don't do it, we can talk whatever we want, we'll have a situation like this that every year one minister will tell me at 12 months, and it has to be secured. So that's how much he's paying for the central reckoning. However, what is very important, back in 2002, health and pension systems were put into the budget because of more rational use of funds. And as the state treasury developed, the logical thing was for all the money of the state to be in one place, to be used rationally because the state doesn't owe for some needs and someone else has something else at the same time. However, when someone tells you that they will save health care and bring health care into order only because they are not paid out of the treasury but out of something else, that is ridiculous. However, I would like to instruct my colleague Linic and other representatives to take a look at the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So it divides 21 billion and you inside have 3.5 items while, let's say, other extra-account users have their own financial plans worked out in detail on several pages. However, the biggest tragedy is that in the summary plan of out-of- budget users, it is said that HZZO is in a minus 2 billion and 400 but in the financial plan of HZZO, they are the incomes and expenditures of which are identical. So much for transparency and so much for the success of detachment from the treasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119497	The reply to the replica Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119498	I'm always trying to show you examples, and then we have to tell you who's to blame. If it's necessary in the central salary account to protect some categories, then it's certainly the Department of Defense. Because defense is part of a military secret. Tragedy is that the minister is among the first, or let's if not among but from large systems without problems entered the central account, spent certain forms, never overstepped the pay item in the last 2 or 3 years. The Secretary of Defense. No home affairs, the education minister didn't come in today, and every year they have overruns, every year. So it's not a system problem, the system can swallow anything, the system can process everything, it's a problem of individual self-will. And listen, it's always the prime minister's fault. Thus, this system could have been operational long ago. And what's most important can't happen to pay more or less in one system. But then you'll come to the fact that in the police system, you've got a huge number of executive positions that handle themselves. This is the central accounting system that pointed to the organisation's weakness. And why did he have a huge number? Well, because it's low wages. Well, when it's low wages if you're not a manager, then you have responsible people like that. But someone has to sit down, make an organization so it doesn't happen. But it hasn't been done for four years because the minister doesn't have time for such jobs. When we talk about health care, when we really talk about health care, detachment of the system from the Treasury at a time when we have a recovery, not only of the state hospitals but of the county hospitals, and when we know that the problem of managing the system is because we want to separate the health minister from I would say from that Health Protection Institute or the Health System Institute, it just indicates that these are the wills that they are not policies. Well, we know that none of the finance ministers were up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119499	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119500	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with associates, numerous colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think this kind of budget rebalance is the worst thing that finance ministers and the Ministry of Finance like to do. It simply has to cover someone's trouble, someone's unwillingness to implement reforms and not have a political will to seduce the country's order. And no matter how much someone's been saying that the state, the seductive order, etc., this budget says it's just not like that. And with... macroeconomic indicators that thank God are finally a little more positive two key indicators are missing and are missing due to the 2016 budget because 2015 is so behind us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's the real deficit of the state budget? This year, according to the ESA 2010 methodology, it will be 18 billion kuna. And I can agree with the minister that according to some kind of cash and this kind of principle he is, but next year we are definitely left without these billions of 800 or 2 billion second pillars of pension and next year there is no income. The growth of income without tax increases next year will not be such that it can cover it. The second thing, since the first guarantees issued in 2012, has been three years, so HZ has been continuously giving around 33.5 billion guarantees all these years, which will fall on the burden of the state budget because HZ will not be able to return them because it has not implemented any reforms. So that's definitely next year's budget in the deficit of some 18 billion kuna. What's the share of public debt in GDP? It is 90% and next year it will be 95% and you simply can't change anything because the structure of the state budget is just like that. However, to all of us who come, you're entitled to say something and to know something about this pile of paper that's written here, this budget still offers certain answers. One mentioned a colleague, Linic, and the other part I will talk about. Why? Because we read these numbers and these positions in a different way than many read them. So for one thing, the expenditure side of the budget is like this and now the surplus income is used to cover exclusively consumption, and capital investment is reduced for one reason only because structural reforms have not been implemented. Because colleagues and colleagues, we are not only over-income but we have reduced investments in the economy and some capital investments to patch up spending holes, and this is definitely a budget that increases consumption, general spending in the Republic of Croatia by more than 2 billion kuna, and it is patching up with what should not be patched up, reducing funds for capital investments and reducing funds by incentives in the economy. Therefore, only the consequences of not implementing structural reforms. Is the revenue side more quality due to positive macroeconomic indicators or is it positive this way solely because some taxes have been increased and certain procedures have been carried out in the funds of those who should have been the bearers of investments. When you take a closer look, then you'll see that it's the only consequence of this second one, not the first one. The only one that may have grown slightly is VAT, but we all forget that, at the same time, a year and a half ago in this House of Commons, we were arguing about how much the Croatian state would lose with that late VAT payment, given the entry into the European Union and the different way of calculating. Now, this dynamic is increasing a little bit, and among other things, one of the reasons for this VAT charge is that this dynamic and that deadline is shrinking, and one part of that money came in. So much for that part. So, an increase in income not because of what you did well but only because of the increase in taxes. EU funds. We've got them neatly booked at the expense. Have the funds that we can withdraw from the EU funds affected the reduction of the expenditure side of the state budget and the budget of local self-government units? No, they're not. No, they're not. Maybe a little bit in the farm. And you don't have much, and they should have had a huge impact on reducing the expenditure positions in the state budget, however they didn't. And as you can see, as we reduced by 50% last year, and this is how we plan to reduce them again because many will not withdraw them, and in the end, when you see only at the position of the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship that the amount is reduced by some 300 and some million more solely because of the EU funds, then I don't think we should talk about anything anymore. So we have money from the European Union, we need to reroute them, but we probably need to negotiate some kind of film co-production there, we need ort, we need to ride, I know what we don't need, so we don't have time to prepare what's being prepared. Privatization. Look, colleagues and colleagues, remember when this budget was announced by the Prime Minister. Privatization, we'll do it, we've seduced the order, we've got a real estate register, we'll sell it, we'll make a budget with it. See which of the most significant items is the reduction of the state budget, revenue from privatisation. Why? Well, because what was said to have been done didn't happen because you typed some data into the computer, if it wasn't connected to the land books, and if it wasn't solved, you couldn't do anything about it. The second thing is, if you treat entrepreneurs very hard, someone will decide to invest and it shows that another direction in which Croatia has very much room when clearly politically deciding what it wants to keep, and what it wants to privatise, is unfortunately not filled practically or in any way at all. So when we round this up together, then we can say that this budget, unfortunately, instead of going towards fiscal consolidation, is going towards reducing the deficit, we unfortunately turn it into consumption. Which is the worst part, one of these items of a colleague and a colleague, that's your square rule or rectangle, whatever you want. Then you have a triangle, and that expenditure is relatively small this year because it refers only to the age. However, next year's expenditure will no longer be that triangle but will be one big square so that the plan for the next budget sets out the social benefits that are now given due to the purchase of some votes ahead of the elections next year will certainly be burdensome on the expenditure side of the state budget. What I want to say here anyway, because simply the Treasury is something that all the finance ministers have kept, cherished because it's something that those who care about state finances, something that just can't be touched. It's got to be state money, it's got to be in one place, and it's got to be seen how it's being spent. You have no changes to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute Plan, but at the Ministry of Health you have an increase of 338 million kuna. This means that all those stories of the Minister about consolidation, etc. are the most ordinary false, I won't use some heavy word because in his plan he doesn't change anything, but at the same time at the position of the Ministry of Health the amount increases by 338 million that is taken from tax revenues. But he said he wouldn't take it anymore, that he had enough of what belonged to him under the Health Insurance Act, what he belonged to under the Health Insurance Act was allegedly provided to him the moment it was passed. However, this shows how much the current finance minister and former finance ministers were right when they claimed that the health problem was not a state treasury, but the problem of health care is that at the head of the health ministry and the prime minister of the government had the courage to implement structural reforms in the health system. And that's the real problem with health care. And this other one is something. You saw the other day the minister responded. He said he had no idea that this should be asked by the finance minister, as the finance minister passed the Health Contribution Act. Now, when you look at the incomes one part of the income tax is simply taken from the units of local self-government and there's nothing to philosophize about. But you don't have it in terms of budgets. But now that you've got all the local self-government units out of a billion and a half kuna, they're gone. And that's a fact. Profit tax. How much does HEP have? Two and a half billion. Why? Well, it's a state-owned company. It should provide services at the lowest possible prices for Croatian citizens who have a monopoly, and not we gave HEP an increase in the price to invest and now of those 2 and a half billion of its potential investments we take 20% of his profit tax. That's 500 million. So, of this profit tax hike, the majority of this goes to HEP. Excise 652 million most of it due to an increase in excise rates, nothing else. Contributions were also made by the minister. But what I was saying, and that's the income from privatisation is lower by 117 million kuna. And now just take a look at what the Prime Minister here said when he represented the budget and he doesn't need anything else. The image and opportunity of how this government works and how the Prime Minister keeps his word and how it's a regulated state. Since my time is slowly leaking. When you look at the expenses, look at the expenses for the employees of 453 million. How can it happen if you don't receive new people? If you are receiving new people, you have to tell someone when you've been doing your budget to receive these people, you can't call a competition unless you've been granted funds. So it's not a state-of-the-art situation if he praises 453 million for your salary. Material expenditures 564 million. Now the question is, what are these material expenditures and how can material expenditures rise by 564 million? How? Expenses for interest 178 million. Very strange. At the end of the year, we made a budget. Time of historically low interest rates, but good. Compensation to the citizens of 402 million. But what I am particularly concerned about is where reductions have been made. Reductions with the Ministry of Economy 89, reduction of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts slightly less than 400 million. Then he says, "I'm particularly affected by CEB's flood defense funds 76 and a half million cuts." It's raining, we'll all be complaining about why and how. However, the agriculture minister has reduced the position by 76 and a half million. The CEB is normally a European bank that has given you favourable loans to solve this problem in Croatia only so much for other colleagues. Ministry of Regional Development 42 million and 800 reductions, Ministry of Transport 123. But a very interesting monetization of highways 11 million and 400, the item remained that way. Nothing since the monetization. Someone's listed 50, 60 million of our money and nobody's got anything. None of us have any idea what stage it's in. The Ministry of Education is increasing 851 million, of which 447 million universities, the rest of the education. But what I left behind for the end are funds and extra-account customers. My colleagues and colleagues, I would really advise you to take a look at those plans. Why? Because it's very interesting, I don't understand why DAB pays 400 million and to whom. Why and who? Allegedly secured savings. Environment Fund 125 million increases. Well, they're going to spend that 125 million in the next two, three months when the construction season is over, but that's it. I already told HZO. Look at HZZO's plan. It's like this on the page. It says agreeing to supplement the financial plan. It accounts for the total income of 21 billion 968, expenditures the same 21 billion 968 because it's genius when you can spend in lip and then you have here a few pages further proposal consolidated changes to the state budget and the financial plans of extra budget users. And then, among other things, total income and support, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance 19 billion and 640 are revenues and expenditures are 21 billion 964 and the total deficit of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is 2 billion and 400. It's in a consolidated plan, and you don't have it in the financial plan. And look, colleagues and colleagues, you have the Croatian Health Insurance Office, so it spends 21 billion, he wrote it to you on the page and a half. Once upon a time in the Treasury, these expenses were recorded to you on ten or fifteen pages were analytically separated and everyone could see every item inside. But since I haven't made it all, I'm going to do it in an individual debate. So let me just get this straight. Unfortunately, this government has not implemented structural reforms, and today we are talking about the same structural reforms that were discussed 4.5 years ago. The result of this is a 18 billion deficit, as a result, when you sum up the entire country's public debt growth by nearly 100 billion kuna and the result is a share of the public debt in GDP 90%, and therefore we cannot support this all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119501	Thank you. Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119502	You said a lot of things I should replicate or disagree with, but right at the beginning you said that the increase in the budget is, the increase in income is but it's not because this government has introduced order or what it has done well for other reasons than for other reasons. Well, it's not like that. Exactly what has been done and what the government has set up is precisely why this income has grown, precisely because you said so yourself first and therefore we see that we have a tax-based income increase, and we have not increased the tax rates. Therefore, the VAT rate has not increased and VAT revenue is higher. The profit tax has not increased, and profit tax revenue is expected to be much higher than it is. So something's changed, but it's still good. Of course, you don't want to do it, and you don't have to admit it, and I don't expect it, but if it was the introduction of order, that tax is now more disciplined or better paid, and that must be said. So there's order, there's growth, you don't have to say it, but it's simply something that's true, what needs to be said and what the public knows but it doesn't hurt again. So, it certainly doesn't work for you, but Croatia would like Croatia to grow, fit Croatian citizens. The order is simply when something like this is said to react not to replicate but to tell the truth because the citizens of Croatia need to be told the truth, and the truth is that Croatia is going to better, that all indicators of growth are present in Croatia, which is good. As a member of the strongest, as a party belonging to the patriotic coalition in which you are strongest, you should as patriots call yourself joyous when Croatia grows and is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119503	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119504	My colleague Jelusic, I would very much like you to listen a little more carefully when I speak then I would not simply have to repeat some things. But whoever comes after you has a government budget deficit of 18 billion kuna if he doesn't change some things in the first year of his term. That's a fact. It has a public debt of 90%, and next year it will rise to 93%, 94% of GDP. The consequence of this together I told you profit tax is solely because HEP has more profit than last year and when you calculate 20% of it, you will see that it is the most important part of it for you. And what the private sector has grown so it's not your fault. But I said I'm glad for certain positive indicators, but these positive indicators can't change a more significant picture of the budget. The picture of the budget can be changed if you implement structural reforms on the spending side, resulting in higher revenues on the revenue side without tax increases. And you just look at how much taxes have been raised over the past 3.5 years, the last four years. And I repeat, unfortunately, this budget illustrates the results of this government's work. And it's the hardest thing for a finance minister to do when he has to get things like this into something and defend it like that. And introducing order isn't if you're short on material expenses of 540 million and you're short on 450 million for wages. So what kind of order is that? It's a mess. So that's why we've passed the Fiscal Bonus Act, but this is what I'm going to talk about when I talk about the Budget Law, so that whoever exceeds the position granted to them by this High House has to offer a mandate at their disposal. But unfortunately, the time will come in Croatia so that ministers can not spend as much as they will but as much as this House approves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119505	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119506	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker is a matter of truth, and I would not agree with you that the units of local administrations, municipalities and cities have reduced their budgets by a billion and 500 million. It's reduced even more by a billion and 800 million. And the equation is very simple, the centralization took place, and when you see that there are a billion and 800 million kunas left in the government register, and it's being spent and the deficit is not being reduced and the municipalities and cities have been taken a billion and 800 million equations are just like that to show that equality. We took the municipalities and cities, we gave it to the state, we didn't reduce the deficit, the deficit stays at the same level. But what municipalities and cities will feel very strongly about capital investments will not be able to finance their own projects that they have and there has just been a consternation in municipalities, cities due to tax returns. That's what we feel in the field and it's just a blow that's going to feel in the third and fourth quarters. Therefore, centralisation took place, the measures that were taken were going towards consumption, and it is seen by VAT but exactly what has become of the municipalities and cities to the state, and the state has not taken advantage of it, has not reduced the deficit, but our deficit remains the same, and our problems will be great in the next fiscal year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119507	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119508	That's right, bug buddy. Here, in light of the budget in increasing revenue from value added tax, it is said that this is the result of those government measures to increase the untaxable work, etc. But then they forgot to draw the cartoon and say those are the assets of the local self-government units. Because they've made a certain move out of the assets of the local self-government unit. However, local self-government units have not received any substitute for this. I said a billion and 600, why? Because in the debate on the law we talked about a billion and 800, and in this rebalancing budget is given as units of local self-government 200 million so to be precise about what we talked about but the final calculation when the unit of local self-government is now practically blocked because the return of income tax goes from their account, does not go from the state budget as it used to be, then these billions and 600 are likely to go beyond 2 billion. However, when you look at certain moves that this government has taken and boasted as its work, it has not made any of these moves cost to the state budget. Now take this electricity thing here in the budget you have forty million worth of what is paid out of the state budget, and this is all poured over to HEP, to HEP, which over the past 3.5 years with an increase in electricity 25% more taken away from these poor citizens than it will come back to them in this way. So when you take just one average Croatian family, they take 80 kunas more per month for electricity than they should pay, so count 12 months, that's 960 kunas and times as many households. Here's 2 billion a year, so times 3.5 years, that's about 7 billion kuna, and where's that 7 billion kuna? From this one part of the tax was paid to the Republic of Croatia and the rest is in HEP and ask God what will happen and HEP has not been restructured and has not been detained to lead large investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119509	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119510	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, you said fellow Shuker that incomes only happened by increasing taxes, not by introducing the order of this government. And you're right in these two days you could actually see what a chaotic situation the government in the Republic of Croatia is because of this government. Both on vertical and on a horizontal co-ordination with immigrants in the eastern part of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with you. You also said that the Minister of Finance is the worst when he has to work rebalancing because that's actually what the Ministers don't want in this government. And when you look at this budget rebalance, there are very few ministers who are doing their job neatly and consciously. You also said that we are constantly talking about investment, and that's true, but when you look through this rebalancing, this surplus income is not directed towards the economy, or one social reproduction, it's actually only used as a cost. What I particularly wanted to apostrophe in this replica, which was also said by my colleague Bubalo and these funds that were taken from the units of local administration and self-government, not only were they taken away from these 1.8 billion kuna funds, but new commitments were imposed on those units. And by returning funds after an annual application, and mainly due to the lack of capital investments of the local self-government unit, they are in an extremely difficult situation. Now, at the very end, I might mention the structural reforms you've been saying. Remember well that those in the health care where the great minuses were hiding were talking about the fact that the separation of HZO from the Treasury wanted to be seen as a major structural reform, which was actually an indignity and a great one. Thank you. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119511	Thank you. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119512	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague Babic, doing this kind of budget rebalancing is a pain for every minister of finance because this rebalancing is basically a cover-up of work, nelad and non-discipline, i.e. the discipline of individual participants who spend the budget. And then you have to show that it's all nice, wonderful and wonderful and that's why a fiscal responsibility law was passed there in 2010 that certain participants in the coercion process stick to certain rules of the game. But it's also one of those laws that everybody runs from like the devil from the incense. And that's a law whose implementation would first and foremost have to be fought by the Prime Minister. Because the expenditure side of the budget does not create a finance minister, it does not create frameworks for the expenditure side of the budget, and how much part of that expenditure side of the budget is defined by special regulations and laws as it belongs to someone. And then the main role is led by the Prime Minister and individual ministers. And when you look here at how it can happen that if everything is under control, it's missing for the material costs of 500 and a few more million kunas, and the units of local self-government are a special story. I think definitely with these decisions that the process of decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia has been completed but with centralised because practically units of local self-government, and virtually none more than perhaps the City of Zagreb without more significant resources from the state budget can take place those basic activities and these are funds for primary education. And in the end, I haven't been able to talk about it, but what's very important is where these huge legalization funds are, and I'd really like to see what positions it's costing to rebuild houses in Gunja so that we can also comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119513	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119514	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you rightly said in your statement that the fact that in the year in which the government predicts GDP growth is 1.1% is not to reduce the state deficit, suggesting that the government's expenditures are absolutely not being controlled. Because to expect it would be if it were true, there will be growth as the government plans 1.1 to then make it clear that it will increase revenues and if the government keeps spending under control should reduce the deficit. Although the deficit is significantly higher, you yourself mentioned it and will mainly show it in the second year because the fixed revenues are increased by the transfer of funds from the second pension column of around 2 billion kuna, which then clearly increases revenues and reduces the deficit. I would also, and that's why I volunteered for the replica, actually referred to the fact that the government increased the price of electricity in 2012 and gave HEP 2 billion with that increase, now the epilogue gave HEP 2 billion more annually and to itself through profit tax 500 million more. Therefore, we would also accept that increase even though it was not fair, it is more than obvious because HEP was not ready to enter this investment cycle that the government allowed him to enter with an increase in electricity prices of 25%. So if HEP was not ready to enter this investment cycle and the government was really social then it was necessary to reduce the price of electricity, help households on average at over 900 kuna per year and thus really show that he cares about Croatian citizens. And as far as legalisation is concerned, I will mention it, indeed these revenues from legalisation are not envisaged and are not seen in the state budget to the extent that they are mentioned and for the reasons why they were really reduced were the obligations that citizens who had to legalise the facilities were obliged to pay in the state budget with the basis of the fee for maintaining facilities in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119515	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119516	Comrade Bacic, I keep thinking when someone boasts that they've brought order to the state so that we can read some things. I really tried reading this budget rebalancing to put on a pile the costs of rebuilding houses in Gunja. You remember how many debates about the law of a special law were passed, then it was said that the means of legalization would all be used for that. At the time, we claimed on behalf of the HDZ Club that it was impossible not to see it, but the law was passed as it is. And if we were to adhere to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, if we were now to try to see what its fiscal effect is, above all, on the spending side, the resources for these expenditures would practically not be seen. Any interest in what these costs of restoration are, so finally, look at this wave of refugees, from which funds are they going to be financed? I expect that since the position of the current reserve is significantly reduced and probably the minister has made an assessment and a logical assessment that 200 and a few million more are not to be kept in stock, etc., and can be used better for something else, but we must assume by some amendment the costs of these waves of refugees. We don't know how long it'll take. Well, you saw what happened yesterday, the Red Cross ran out of food, and soon the Ministry of Economy and Stock Reserve will have problems. Therefore, the amendment to the budget rebalancing must foresee this. One more thing we don't talk about, unfortunately, because we're focusing too much on this part of the budget, and too little on extra-account users, which is the 800 million kuna taken from HAC. 400 million goes to HZ and 400 million to Croatian roads. So you can see that every year the continued plan of the Croatian roads decreases, and every year the guarantees to HZ are constantly increasing. So HAC has already remained at an opportunity over two billion kuna has lost, and these haven't done anything that's then a double cost, then it's a cost of over 4 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119517	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119518	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You will obviously have to add this section to your local self-government, because if you could just add that these changes to the Croatian Roads' financial plan plan plan are planning to remove 102 million kunas from the ZUCs then you would come up for further increases in the figure for reducing local self-government. It's interesting here that Minister Resorni had already amended the rule two months ago and abolished the money before the changes to the plan were brought. But I actually volunteered for the replica because of your allegations that staff expenditures are increasing. And now there's one very interesting thing, there's a position in, say, Croatian waters where employee expenditures decrease by one million kuna, and they're still down 22 million 657 thousand 750 kuna more than they were employee expenditure in 2011. And now that we're looking at it, I'm really asking myself that question that you said, where's the catch. On the one hand, it is said that the number of employees on the other hand we know that even those archival spaces where the archives in Croatian waters were turned into office spaces and now we get information that this amount of wages in Croatian waters is increasing this drastically. So it's obvious that there are some things on the paper that can't be hidden that are released out in public every day, obviously inverted, obviously not responding to facts and truth. Well, here's an interesting thing to mean where it's shrinking and it's increased drastically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119519	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119520	Yes, colleague Hrg, I think we all need another 15 minutes to discuss the financial plans of extra budget users. Why? Because they have more than 8 billion kunas and 8 billion kunas which mean 8 billion kunas to many units of local self-government that have a significant impact on the standard of living of Croatian citizens. However, if I hadn't touched those funds in my debate, perhaps someone would have mentioned or not, but in my individual debate, I will try to provoke a debate over some things. I'm saying it doesn't make sense for me that you mentioned the Croatian Roads plan to reduce the 152 billion kuna. So are those really those roads that came from the county and state level to cities on the obligation of maintenance, those former state roads, really cities that they took away like that, and so the money doesn't need some of these 152-billion-dollar funds to patch up those roads. The same story is with Croatian waters. But I'm saying, my biggest enigma is my financial plan for HZZO to basically spend 21 billion on a website, and then it says he's missing 2 billion and 400, and at the same time in that sumptuous plan, he says that his income and expenditures are identical in June. Perhaps we too will look in the future when discussing the state budget that this debate on behalf of the clubs takes a little longer so that we can cover everything because I repeat, these five extra budget users, if we add more Croatian highways to them, have a significant impact on the standard of living of our citizens, show how the political option refers to certain cities and municipalities, i.e. which is a political option at the state level, which at the local level is a division of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119521	And Frano Matušić, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119522	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's my colleague Shuker, I'm also going to say something about decentralisation, or the fact that decentralisation is dead during this government and that no decentralisation has actually happened, but centralised has happened, as some of my predecessors have said. The fact is that at least a billion kunas have been taken away from local self-government units and that we actually have an increase in the revenues of the state budget for this amount today. And that is a fact, but it remains a concrete and clear indication that the units of local self-government today are in a much worse situation than they have ever been. I can't invest. Instead of investing these units of local self-government in new kindergartens, in new schools, in new retirement homes, in new sports halls for children, today we have an increase in the state budget, these funds go to increase material costs. The question then arises that you are interested in where, where this money is, where money will be spent in environmental funds, why it increases its funds by 70 million kuna. Well, I think it's very clear. The Environment Fund, along with the ministry, has moved into a new building. The cost of the building is 30% more than they have ever spent in spite of all promises that it will be less. We have the fact that the state audit has claimed that the rental costs have increased by 30% and that's one example. Other examples I don't think we should ask too much that it's very clear. But it's generally clear that the government's intensities are actually to silence local self-government units. That's the worst of it, and that's how the standard of citizens collapsed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119523	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119524	Kola Matušić, at the moment when the terrible decision and the law on the financing and functioning of the units of local self-government went under the auspices of the finance minister and went to the Ministry of Regional Development then a death sentence was signed on decentralisation of the functioning of local self-government units in Croatia. Because you saw the other day the Minister of Regional Development defended the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which was always done by the Minister of Finance. The finance minister determines and brings, in fact, proposes to the government of the fiscal and economic policy guidelines, based on which units of local self-government are budgeted. What is very important and what the Ministry of Regional Development should have done and has not done, and this is that as part of the regional policy of the European Union, the preparation of units of local self-government and practically runs a complete policy on the withdrawal of funds for balanced regional development in the Republic of Croatia, this was not accepted by the Ministry of Regional Development but was accepted by a cake which, although I may have been a little sentimentalally, not a little bit but a lot of looking at the Ministry of Finance, was nevertheless fairer and by some criteria of the income capacity of the local self-government units. And what it looks like now is how much money has been taken, so we're going to make up for it, so we're going to make up for it, the local self-government unit is going to be left with over 2 billion kunas. And when you look at the financial plans of extra budget users, then that amount is far higher. And that's the one that's been working that just shouldn't have been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119525	My colleagues and colleagues, since many of you are asking about the continuation of the session. We will continue on Monday 21st September at 2pm with a united debate on the final proposals for laws, amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. ... [[And we want to work with a break today or without a break.]] Why don't we work without a break? There's no need. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119526	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Okay, we all know that the key to this bill or rather the key to this rebalancing, these are the laws we adopted last Friday, so we better put this set of social measures that we were talking about. 127 thousand socially endangered will receive these 200 kuna vouchers for electricity, 23 thousand will receive greater personal disability, for 103 thousand 800 incompetent singles and children of single parents, a guaranteed minimum fee is increased, so there is a redistribution of those 26 million kuna, 73 thousand health workers and health insurance received a salary supplement, which is around 190 million kuna from the budget, it should be emphasized by the hospital. Then there's another 1300 scientific recruits getting a job, it's all in common somewhere with everyone else in school 200 to 400 million kuna. Sixty thousand citizens meet the requirements of the future Law on personal bankruptcy. For the costs of court proceedings, some 10.5 million kuna should be allocated from the budget, 63,000 Swiss-related credits can be calculated, so it can be counted on those smaller wars and in the budget itself because banks will pay less taxes and it could be around 300 million kuna a year. All these measures and a series of others understandably to require budget rebalances. There's one thing I dare say that doesn't make sense. 73 thousand health workers will get this supplement on their salaries and it is commendable and I absolutely welcome it but I'm surprised teachers won't and it's just not fair. 5801 kuna is the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. 4931, it is the average salary in primary schools in Croatia and 5274 kuna is the average salary in secondary schools. So one and the other average salaries, say the professor in high school or teachers, are less than the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. I said it's not fair. And that's why teachers announce a strike. I think the strike should be avoided and that in some ways we should find a modus to ensure that 4% increase in these salaries. Yeah, that 4% would be if I weren't wrong about the equivalent of about 150 million kuna. The Ministry of Education from this rebalancing sees that it will receive an additional 280 million kuna, but it goes mainly to new schools, it goes for jubilee awards that must be paid because the unions have succeeded in court disputes. It is clear what fellow Shuker is talking about, what will happen, that in some way and part of the units of local self-government will be abolished. The government boasted that in the first 8 months, it charged 3.2 billion kuna more taxes than it did last year, covering this mentioned social package, but I repeat want to believe that it is possible to find those 4% for our teachers or teachers. It is true that in Croatia, the number of employees falls, and the number of unemployed falls, and now a real man is asking himself a question in this migrant crisis which measures, among other things budgetary, Croatia will take to make sure that young people do not move out and we see that there are no such items in this budget. I don't think our young people should be compensated for these migrants, but clearly, absolutely stop this uncontrollable entry. How much is this migrant crisis gonna cost us? It should also be shown in some way in the budget items. What if this year ′′seems′′ 50, 60, 70 or more thousands of people. Today, I read in some media that Europe in the Azilant and Migrant Funds, imagine, has a large basnoslovous 71m euros, but for the period 2014-2020, it means about 12m euros annually. So that's how much it cost us to say this stampede, this invasion, this right on Croatia that happened in these last 24 hours, and they still say they're prepared. But then these Europeans add that the problem in Croatia could be much bigger than in Hungary, Italy or Greece. Are there certain means that it just works? And now one more thing, I assure you, none of us in any other country, that we don't have a car, can come from one end of that country to the other within eight hours, without someone telling us to. I argue that what happened on yesterday when at 8 o'clock a good part of the people was transferred or I moved from east to west of Croatia it can only be done by military trained persons. Well, wasn't it clear when 60 women first arrived, children with a couple, I say logistics, men, so when they realized that the system didn't work, then there was a stampede. But let's let go of my grades now. Winter is coming, Croatia's entry will be perhaps tens of thousands of people and will be with winter and sickness. These people need to be looked after, and they're found here, and they need help. I am now reading, part of the refugees who arrived in the Beli Manastir yesterday during the night and morning headed for Osijek from where the bus and train station is trying to reach Zagreb. No one knows how many migrants actually enter Croatia. It's registered 13200, but it's exceeded 20,000. There are more migrants in White Manastir and Tovarnik than residents, and I don't quote any further. Who will help local self-government in Eastern Slavonia? Well, I think we should talk about it today, so if we need to stay here Saturday and Sunday and in one appropriate way to prepare the rebalancing of this budget. I've been told now by people, I haven't followed it live, that the prime minister spoke and said about it he started talking like you three more months ago, good morning President, and it says that we simply underestimated this humanitarian problem, but there's still room, I don't know if there's any time but at least financially, yes, that we're just starting to deal with this problem seriously. What's also interesting is the number of unemployed. The number of unemployed in August fell by 1.2 thousand to a total of 256748 people, the lowest unemployment rate in August 2009. However, as the number of unemployed falls, so does the number of employees. That's even I'd say a bigger problem and it's definitely something to talk about. From March to August, the number of unemployed fell by 73,000, while during the same period last year you were careful to reduce it by 94500, and this is considered by some unexpected data in the context of slightly more favourable indicators of economic activity and let's say good indicators of the tourist season, and a stronger employment in the past year. It's clear there's good data. They need to be apostrophysed, but some data warns. We in the country have about 20% of the poor, and public debt with 38.9% of GDP in 2008 or 63.7% in 2011 has increased to almost 90% or will rise to 90% at the end of this year. It's one problem which also warns and which I would simply say goes beyond the will, the ability of one or not to know any government. The credit rating goes down, and with no result that these measures around the Swiss, which we all unanimously accepted, or the Raiffeisen bank loan so that it wouldn't accidentally lead to, the Raiffeisen loans certainly won't fall to the value of the kuna. I couldn't believe that, for example, a bankrupt Greece that allowed people to use 60 euros a day has a GDP at 1.4% per year. Ours was in the second quarter, 1.2%. God forbid it's supposed to be 1.1% at the annual level. I want to believe he can grow in this third quarter. The second is also interesting, which was also mentioned by the finance minister a while ago when he mentioned that businesses and citizens in Croatia are even more in charge than those in Greece. According to EUROSTAT's 2013 figures, the private sector amounted to 143.7% of gross social product and 135.6% in Greece. Greece's clear debt is higher because private debt needs to be added to that Greek public debt of 177% of gross social product, and our debt is around 88%. And I literally quote Minister Lalovac when he said our companies are more citizens than Greece and then stated that the debt of the Croatian private sector is more than 420 billion kuna. So if we add this debt to that debt this public debt from brother to brother 300 billion kuna on today it's somewhere around 710, 720 billion kuna by the end of this year. So we have a serious, serious spell on that one. The clear efforts of the authorities should be rewarded in some way, but the truth is not always black white. They're looking forward to data on larger exports. It seems to me that exports are bigger than last year, about 4.6 billion kuna. But the truth is it's also on ships during that period which only says that part of the shipyard is a waste-recovered measure, so when I'm talking about exporting about a billion kuna. And for the end of another maybe just a piece of information. As much as we have good results, I have the impression that some countries, according to their financial data, have been far away, far behind the Republic of Croatia, simply outrun us for not being well. Five years ago, Croatia was slightly poorer than Lithuania, which passed us in 2007, but was richer than Latvia, Turkey, Romania. At that time we belonged to that convergence club where Poland, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia was richer than all those countries in 2000 except Hungary. In 2015, Croatia is poorer than all those countries that have obviously changed their convergence club and are now converting to a relatively rich Slovenia and the Czech Republic. The year has reached Croatia in 2011, and Romania will overtake us in the next 2016, and Bulgaria will do so in ten years. Gentlemen, we have problems, so head together. But first of all, we need to find the capacity to monitor this migrant crisis on the ground of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119527	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119528	Thank you. Comrade Cain, you've reflected part of this migrant crisis. It's a shame you didn't watch our prime minister's press release. It happened yes, yes. Again, another picture and opportunity of the complete disorientation of the Croatian government, which was more or less present in all these four years. In this case, she's present in this immigrant crisis, re-alto mortal. So now the prime minister is offering to send all these immigrants free to Hungary. Of course, Hungary, which is much better than Croatia, is following the situation, already stretching the wire to those 41km of land border with the Republic of Croatia. They've already started it, so it's practically not going to work either. Croatia was almost trapped in incompetence and a complete non-monitoring of the foreign-political context in which these things happen. Today, the prime minister discovered the policies of Greece and other states. I mean, where are his services? Does this country have its own foreign policy at all? Is he following processes in the Middle East? And not to say that this is ultimately reflected and reflected and will reflect not only on the threat of Croatian national interests, but also on the threat of the Croatian state budget, it is certain. And you have well noticed that in no way has the government been inscrutable in the state budget, but, of course, as it is not in any of its policies, it is not in the Croatian State budget. So, Croatia's thick helmet, there's no answer, and all the burden has actually been reduced practically to those units of local self-government in Slavonia that are being fueled by war and economic downgraded agriculture, the most, their own migration of their own population, are now finally suffering the burden of these immigrants. One news is that out of all these 20 thousand people, a total of 1 person has requested asylum in the Republic of Croatia, it is likely to record it as a positive balance of migration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119529	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119530	I don't know what to say but one thing's for sure, Slavonia deserves help. Slavonia alone with this migration crisis, left to herself without the help of the government, simply can't handle it. This should include all of us, as is the case with Bandic and the City of Zagreb. So both Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County and Sibenik and Splitska and down Dubrovnik and not to list everyone else. You noticed exactly, we are all just following it from hour to hour today, Hungary has begun to stretch the wire towards Croatia. That the Prime Minister thinks he can direct the migrants to Hungary and hang the cat on the tail. For three months, this country ran a campaign, or a government of pardon, on refugees, invited refugees, and these press singers didn't hit pendreds but chemically, or I don't know computers for all those who dared to give these problems a loud warning. I won't tell you, and I won't mention what I've been through, from a scared fascist all the way there to Eichmann. But I'm most afraid of something else, if the migrants get to BiH and if there are several tens of thousands of people there, it will only become a trap for the Republic of Croatia. And this government has no space but it is possible to contact Belgrade, Sarajevo, Skopje as soon as possible, I don't know these countries and simply try to find some moduso to simply resolve the problem. The problem is serious, we're going to have 50, 60, 70,000 people here this winter. The Slovenians said we won't take any migrants, they're your problem. And Croatia as it is organised has shown that the problem cannot be dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119531	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119532	In fact, politics is best seen through the budget but looking at this rebalancing we see that the rebalancing does not see what is happening in Slavonia and Baranja, does not see what is happening in the White monastery in the areas of Osijek and the entire Slavonia and Baranja. The safety of citizens is very important. But when you see the position of the Ministry of Interior, which is cut by 78 because it is 329 418, and in particular in the HDSSB, we are concerned about the position of K553026 building capacity in the area of asylum, visa system and illegal migration that is cut by 20%. So this rebalancing doesn't see what's happening on the ground, and that's why we have to open their eyes right through this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119533	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119534	Absolutely if it's something politics it's a budget. All policies can be shown through these thousands and thousands of items. Nearly 100,000 people have left Croatia in the last 4.5 years. The most painful thing in all of this has passed or the greatest burden is again borne by Slavonia. And that's a fact. It seems to me in a year and a half somewhere over 30,000 people. Villages, cities are almost empty. Who in this country in the last three months besides calling refugees has said one word about the problem of these people running after bread in Germany, Canada, Australia and so on? They're not just leaving Slavonia, they're leaving Istria. But most absolutely from Slavonia. And that's what we need to talk about. Today I came across the information that Europe in the asylum immigrant fund, look at cynicism, and millions of people are being moved, has 71m euros for the period 2012-2014, 12m euros a year. And they say they can, not them, but our MEPs are talking about how we of these 12 million euros will be able to settle annually. So what kind of world do they live in for their 8, 9 or 10 thousand euros? Whether they are simply aware of what is happening in this country or simply being made as some who sit just across the street and say the problem in Croatia, that is the only thing I believe in Brussels, can be far greater, more serious than in Hungary, Italy or Greece. We have a problem, and with that problem, obviously, we've failed. They wanted individuals to run an election campaign, and now it just fell on their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119535	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119536	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain and I have warned you of what you say. You said you were charged with various names and called ugly by fascists, so I don't know where. But unfortunately, the situation is like this and we see the tenacity here today, perhaps you haven't seen it maybe you were out there, a press conference for the Croatian prime minister who says that Croatia will say expedition refugees to other countries. It's like he's deaf and blind to the decisions of Slovenia, Hungary, Austria, Germany that have closed their borders. And where will they expedit them? And we will come up with this situation that you say will remain in Croatia for winter as you say 60 or 70 and I don't know how many thousands of migrants who are going to be chaoticly spinning around Croatia and Croatia will be, of course, because of humanity and all that Mr. Prime Minister promises is in fact obliged to take care of these people. This certainly has to do with the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which, in this position said, reduces the saying, building capacity in the area of asylum of the illegal migration system from 10 million funds to 8 million. And I fully support the second part when there was a speech, when you were talking about basic and high school salaries. It's really embarrassing and it's no wonder that people are leaving right now, and of course if the average salary in primary schools is 4200, and in the middle of 5200, and 95% of the employees are with high school supplies, so teachers, professors, masters of the profession to get people out. In Brod-Posavina County it is written, to tell you the information, so 245 children are written from primary school schools, 245 children. They went abroad with their parents, nowhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119537	Time. Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119538	It's clear that these people will not be transferred anywhere, only if they slip through the border on their own. We're gonna have to take care of these people, and I guess it's clear to everyone today. So yesterday, the Slovenian prime minister openly said that our officials are not telling the truth and that they will not receive anyone. If I am not mistaken from word to word, I have paraphrased Minister Ostojić. Slovenian Minister or Minister of the Interior said we will not receive anyone. We didn't agree with you about anything, and as much as Hungary will receive them, the most eloquent witness is the fact that they started building a wall towards Croatia 70 or 41 kilometers long, it doesn't matter. It'll be 70 kilometers fast. It is clear that there is none of us who have no compassion for this people's tragedy, and it does not matter if it is Pakistanis, Algerians, Syrians, Iranians, I don't even know the Erytrians themselves, because we've been through something similar ourselves. But the problem is that in Croatia you cannot tell the truth. I say we've had time and this shouldn't have happened. It happened among other things because the issue wanted to be used for elections. And it was not the question raised by the opposition, but by the people in power. I've asked myself the same question before, so here it's all a project, how can people come to the west at 8 o'clock from one part of the Croatian East? So who is it that leads them to it? Come on, if we didn't have cars, who in those eight hours could come from one end to the other? And the state didn't transport them or organize them. Take a look at those first two buses of women and children along with several logistics guys who came. We normally started crying all over again, etc. and compassion with the children because you should but actually just prepared the ground for what is no longer to be controlled. I can't understand that intelligence is so naive. It needs to be disbanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119539	So let's go back to the budget rebalance now. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119540	Dear Madam Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of the disputes that are understandable when it comes to budgeting and budget rebalancing in this home. This budget rebalance is obviously an indicator of repairing the economic situation in our country. This budget rebalance is also an indicator of the fact that some economic measures, some financial measures, fiscal measures are better said by the government in recent times to produce results. In synergy with favourable circumstances in our environment, I mean the environment of the EU, especially the countries with which Croatia is most announced, with which it has the most intense and most economic, material, commodity and financial exchange. Obviously, opportunities were created for the government to come up with a rebalance that brings on the one hand an increase in expenditure by 1 billion and 800 million kuna and, on the other hand, guarantees protection against further increases in the RS deficit. That is good, it is good because the position of the Republic of Croatia, because there will be no increase in deficits is not at risk and it is not at risk, and on the other hand, by increasing certain expenditure will certainly benefit not only those who benefit from these expenditures but also from further economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia especially for increasing consumption. So, VAT revenues for 750 million kuna, income from profits for 440 million kuna by having it reinvested, expenditures from special taxes and excise fees of 650 million kuna, justify this increase as of course and justify the government's decision to the units of local and regional self-government of which a large number of have actually been hit hard by restrictions that have been introduced to allow them to have as many more favourable circumstances for their actions specifically think of municipal units, because I think of local units of self-government, above all I mean municipalities. And 210 million kunas have no doubt that there will be a significant injection to the municipalities of which a large number has suffered for years serious, recessional, but at the same time restrictive measures introduced by the Government when they are on the basis of the expenditure side and the fiscal policy in the area. On the other hand, indexation or harmonisation of pensions is undoubtedly something that is necessary for our citizens in view of the fact that we have a large percentage of citizens who have very low and very low pensions, and given the rate of price increases, the cost of living, the total cost of living was the time to carry out this indexation and this increase of 133 million represents a very significant measure both for increasing their living conditions and for increasing their opportunities and participation in total consumption. On this side, we also welcome the measure to increase the allocation of children's allowances by 90 million kuna, as well as the increase foreseen for employees in especially two sensitive ministries such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. We know very well that these ministries are working under the circumstances, especially the employees of the MUP, especially teachers and teachers in schools, circumstances that are particularly difficult and not since yesterday but not in the last 4 years, but have been working for the past 25 years. The risks of the work of the representatives of the MUP are not diminishing they remain, something is less than in times of war, but the risks of the work of the representatives of the MUP are serious. Unfortunately, their incomes don't follow those risks. The same goes for teachers and school teachers. Unfortunately, their work has been impaired as well as their role in the educational and educational process and society in general, and not only in society in general but unfortunately very often in parents and rarely in children. And for this reason, it seems justified that the Ministry of State has reached out to this measure, as it has addressed the measure to provide the Ministry of Education with additional opportunities and additional means for rewarding those who, in particular, point out, during their lifetime, whether in their achievements that have provided innovation in the work with children and contributions to the achievement of curricula. In this respect, the SDSS Representatives Club welcomes these measures. What I want to point out here once again, as we pointed out in the previous budget and budget rebalances, are the following two things that we are concerned about and which unfortunately are not covered by this budget in an adequate way or solved in an adequate way. Of the 20 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia 15 units were, hopefully, not left in this year and last year, 15 units of local self-government among the 20 most underdeveloped units, 15 units of local self-government are those in which the Serb return population is majority. And when we ask that return areas be treated with specific development measures, we bear in mind the fact that they are both return areas for Croatian and Serb peoples. We know that this is partly about historical reasons, partly about war reasons, but we cannot allow such a situation to be prolonged and we cannot understand why the Government and why individual ministries, in particular the Ministry of Regional Development, do not provide the necessary measures symbolically. It is 6, 7, 8 or 10 million kunas for infrastructure needs without which these units of local self-government (a) have no assumptions for normal lives of people, and (b) have no assumptions for economic development unless they have no water, unless they have roads, unless they have electricity to come to later, unless they have other social and infrastructure measures, then this development will unfortunately not be possible. And then let's not be surprised that people leave Gracac, or Lapca, and let's not be surprised that they both go away, both the settlers and the returnees and the Croats and the Serbs if there are no such measures. And why aren't they here? Well, because there aren't many voices there, so there's no chance of yours. There will not be any if We do not create them. We spend so much time here to discuss the migration circumstances that we've found ourselves in that will last for a month, two days, and this takes years and we don't pay attention to it. And I ask Mr. Minister to do as far as possible to solve this problem with a system solution because it is now too late for him, but with the solution that this rebalancing will provide. Another thing I've been trying to say is, for 10 years, most of the 260 and some people who have been waiting for power connections in the last 4 years have not been able to get lipe to join their homes in electricity, although the law says that within 30 days of the completion of that house, they should be connected, although the law says that the user who had an electricity subscription before the war and whose housing was connected to the electricity does not have to pay the fee. Meanwhile, someone in HEP or where he came up with a version that everything that goes beyond the price of building a network of 50,000 kuna that HEP can't do that will work for the state. So what's HEP? It's a private company. The state should build connections for someone who should secure these same connections on their own. Or on the other hand, if someone hadn't used electricity for three years and didn't pay the bills, then he had to pay it again. So what if he was in a refugee shelter? So what if his house was destroyed and restored only after all these years? So where do these people live? In which and in whose country? Or might they have special measures and special understanding for these people? If they have it, it's discrimination. If they do not have any consideration of the needs of consumers of electricity. We pray as I prayed here while the minister was Mr. Linic to resolve the issue. If this issue is resolved, we do not have a moral basis for participation in further debate and decision-making on this rebalancing. It's immoral to stick to people for 10 years without connections, against the law, against regulations. And it's immoral for this government to fail for four years. I'm not talking to you, Mr. Minister, because I spent the most hours talking to you about this thing. But those who promised to settle it, and it was Minister Vrdoljak two years ago, and it was also about Minister Greece two years ago. They didn't solve it. Now if they don't take care of their moral obligation, me and my club are bound to run it. And here I'm telling you that out of a moral relationship with those people's needs, if that question doesn't work out properly, we won't be able to take part in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119541	Replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119542	Thank you. I'd like to replicate on this first part of what you were saying about the raise for the salaries of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. According to some data in the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia today, a total of 3 times more people were employed than it was in... The Republic of Croatia before the formation of the Croatian State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, according to these data, the majority of these people working today have not increased the number of MIP employees working on business with citizens from you, but in fact the overall administration of the MUP has grown significantly, it is almost amazing that today as a democratic Croatian state we need several times more employees in the system than there were before the Croatian state was created in the communist system. That's one thing. Well, I think that salary growth is, to a greater extent, accumulated by the constant increase in the number of employees over these upgrade jobs and, in fact, to be quite clear, I think that all political structures are just filling and folding and engulfing and so on in the MUP. And that's why I'm not so optimistic, and I wouldn't look so kindly at this growth in the salary mass in the MUP. And the other thing about protest, the fact is that our classes are much smaller than 10, 15 or 20 years ago. So quality can be better and that we, our teachers no longer have anything to do or how to do because children are gone. So we're getting down to the number of kids everywhere and we're about to turn our class into a primary school that each has 8 students in order to keep the number of employees in that system at all. So it goes back to that basic problem, which is the number of children. And you can in settlements where they come back, the wartime Serbian nationalities, mostly pensioners pave the way for gold trails, all roads and currents, but there are no children. No youth, no life, and I think it's a basic problem that we all face regardless of who the nationality in this country belonged to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119543	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119544	I couldn't agree more with your last words, my colleague. Long ago, problems are not actually Croatian or Serbian but are common when it comes to underdevelopment, when it comes to demographic policy, when on Wednesday some kind of common policies. You're right about that. I agree with you and that there are no doubt both in the MUP and in the police and in the education system there are people who represent some kind of surplus. Part of it is the consequence of what you're saying, probably. But part of it is the consequences of new commitments. Before the war in Serbs, there were no seven police officers, now you have 70 who guard the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before the war in Lower Lapco was gone, there were only enough 2, 3 officers, now you have almost 70 of them as well. Therefore, I agree with you, but on the other hand, it is obvious that the people who work in this job are underpaid both in schools and in the police. And I'd separate those two things. So to ensure their honest lives and a well-paid job. But at the same time, to see what is needed and what is not necessary and to make these two things clear. That, of course, is part of the Ministry of Finance, but first of all, it's a matter of the state itself to evaluate it. And us here in the Parliament. We don't have any regrets, I'll go back to the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, there's people underpaid, there's not enough there, they don't have their own equipment. Therefore, we need to take care of the state of our state in state institutions absolutely yes. And if we were to do it more and sing less or scream less, it would be much better for the state and it would be better for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119545	We'll continue at 3:00, first colleague Ivo Jelusic. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119546	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119547	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, dear colleague. Here's a lot of us are obviously in the assembly, and the topic is the rebalance of the state budget. However, I will use it to point out once again on behalf of the HNS Club and point out those important things, the ingredients of this rebalance of the state budget, and in fact, I am giving that emphasis which essentially led to this positive shift in income, and on the other hand we did not have any new tax burdens, but rather the disbursements made, particularly in the case of citizens, the Income Tax Act and all those measures that we have been encouraging these years, have led to the growth of gross products, or the increase of the income side, which is most important. So the measures implemented economically, primarily fiscal policy and increasing the available income of the population, economic developments in 2015 were far more favourable than expected. The derogation from the initially adopted budget relates to a better achievement of budgetary revenues due to more favourable economic developments compared to previous planning for better achieved revenues. Good afternoon, Your Honor. The budget was affected by the ministry's ongoing efforts in curbing and tax returns, collecting old debts. On the expenditure side of the budget due to the measures implemented primarily social policy, there was a need to issue additional appropriations, and certain redistributions are also proposed in certain categories of expenditure where the planned funds are not sufficient. So the proposal itself includes additional fiscal consolidation measures set out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decisions of April 2015, as we have been in the excessive deficit procedure since January 2014. In line with this proposal, it is expected that GDP will increase by 1.1% in 2015, and I will be free on behalf of the HNS Club to say that, according to all economic expectations, this result could, at the end of the year, be 1.5, and of course, we will check that when the results come to us at the end of February next year. The realisation of budget revenues is better than expected and they increase by 1.8 billion kuna compared to planned revenue so that total revenues should amount to HRK 108.2 billion, while expenditures increase by 1.7 billion kuna and amount to $120.7 billion. I repeat, to the greatest extent, social policy measures and the harmonisation of pensions have been implemented. What is important and crucial and most important, resulting from these changes and the addition of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, which is all the fundamental segments of the national economy that are important for growth in this year, show growth which is essentially reflected in GDP growth, greater than planned. The results achieved in the second term further show that Croatia is not only coming out of recession but definitely coming out of recession. With a significant increase in exports, industrial production, the results achieved in tourism and other parts of the economy, most importantly show positive results. The biggest contribution of GDP growth is to exports of goods and services, growth of industrial production, gross added value according to the production method is to grow stronger in industry, especially by processing with 2.9%, and in trade, transport and storage, and accommodation, preparation and food service with as much as 4.4%. Total gross investments in the first half of 2015 were made with 37 billion kuna. In the first half of 2015, although slightly less, gross fixed capital investments relative to the same period 2014 show an increase in fixed capital investment ratios compared to total investments, 93.4% of all investments relate to fixed capital investments. It should be expected that the trend will continue and that new investment and investment in development will contribute to a positive change in these structures as well. Industrial production, although well in the summer period, increased by June in July 2015, as compared to June as much as 3.5% In May this year, the Republic of Croatia had the highest rate of growth of industrial production in the EU by 4.4% at monthly level, while at EU level 28 member states achieved a down of 0.1%. The biggest increase in industry refers to capital with 10.2% of products and durable products for wide consumption by 4%. In the processing industry, a strong increase in the production of electrical equipment at a rate of 19.4% growth and production of machines and devices of 16.7 was achieved in July. According to data from the State Statistics Institute for the first half of 2015, labour productivity increased by 1.8%. Compared to the EU average, the EU's 28 members in Croatia show a stronger growth in total income in the monthly industry with a 105 index and according to this score is 4th, which means top EU countries. A positive trend in the business of the industrial sector is expected as the volume of industrial production increases at 3.6% in July compared to the previous month. In 2014, exports amounted to 10.36 billion euros in the international market, which is 79 billion more compared to 2013 and 8.13% respectively. These original results absolutely show the highest result achieved since 2009 which is an increase of 31.89% compared to baseline 2009. According to the State Statistics Office in the first half of 2015, 41.96 billion kuna was made in goods exports, an increase of 11.26% to the same observed period in 2014. Of course, we have a lot of data about tourism, but just like this one interesting, which is that in the last 10 years, the increase in tourist arrival in June is 50.3%, and in August 50% in the last 10 years. According to CNB in the Republic of Croatia in 2014, direct investments amounted to EUR 2.89 billion, i.e. an increase with an index of 378.4%, approximately worth total foreign investment for the period 2011/2013. The total turnover of the retail trade is growing at a rate of 3.9%. In the first half of 2015 there is also a strong shift of positive economic movements especially in the area of industry and tourism, which further pours faith... In view of the increase in economic activity with the strengthening of employment, the recovery of certain economic industrial manufacturing sectors, and the positive trends for the economy as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The estimated and achieved indicators of individual economic segments in the first half of the year, and in particular individual indicators in industry, tourism and trade in July are further instilling confidence that the results for the third quarter, but also for the fourth quarter, will be more pronounced above the estimates set for this year. So we at the Croatian People's Party club that even the increase in gross products in this year will be greater than expected, greater than these 1.1. We believe somewhere 1.5% that not only did we get out of the crisis would show, but that really that economic growth has good elements, one big rise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119548	Thank you. On behalf of the ORAH club will speak the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119549	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, respected numerous colleagues. Otherwise, in the Croatian Parliament, the debate on budget or budget rebalancing should be one of the most interesting discussions, but since it is practically the last, or last week of work most likely, and that Friday afternoon the assembly is as it is. How many of us are there? One eight maybe. Unfortunately, it is an opportunity to mention everything that has not been done. The government, when it came out with this proposal, put forward everything that it felt was necessary to point out as something positive. But since it's the end of the term, then we can do a little reminder. Do you remember Plan 21? Try to see what's being drawn there, what's promised, what's ever been accomplished? When you turn around, I remember exactly that I have a picture right here in front of me, on the left hand side above you writing four of those points that will be the engine of Croatia's progress out of the crisis and things like that. One of those four items is investment in railways. I think my colleague Linic was saying something in that sense today. So where are those investments in the railways? If we're honest railways are not completely abandoned, but completely devastated. The effect, unfortunately, is not that I'm exulting over it, but that's what I'm saying. The effect of the ministry's work, not this pardon, but the resolution ministry on railways that were mentioned as one of the engines of the RH drivers, are in no worse shape. Unfortunately, the infrastructure is in total poor condition, maintenance does not exist, the system is systematically destroyed. Well, we have some kind of announcements for the first time we're going to build some kind of railroad after 50 years. It reminds me of what we have a bridge that leads, in front of the bridge nothing and behind the bridge nothing. Which means to make one section of the railroad, behind that stock you don't have, there's not been a reconstruction of the refurbishment of the track for exactly 50 years. It's the same thing on the X. corridor. It's the same thing on all the tracks you want. I once mentioned it in the debate, you can buy a new Mercedes, but if you don't keep it up with time, you won't be able to use it. Unfortunately, that's exactly how we do it. But let me go back to the very data presented here in this proposal. The government boasts, each and every one of us boasts when he has something to brag about, but now I'm going to take back a little story a few months. Remember the Children's Compensation Act. Now the budget is getting better than anyone ever before and then there was little hearing for 1100 families could have been paid three months more. At the annual level, it's $11 million, per annum, so for those three months let's say 3 million. We couldn't donate that, that government didn't show any hearing, and that's what's most needed. Remember the same debate about this same law and some other laws that are from that domain. Then, among other things, we are preparing a whole law on an inclusive supplement that costs a lot and for what we will prepare the funds for. I don't see that funds, since the bill doesn't exist at all. As far as I know, the working body met once. But I can't even see that those funds are meant for it anywhere in any of these elements. Remember the redistribution, there was a debate, and it even seems to me that my colleague Schuker mentioned today, about the roads and the re-designs of that part. So one part was given to the railway infrastructure that we heard what it looks like now. But let's say County Roads, there's not long I've listened to in some informal conversation of the County Road in Sisak they should have had if I wasn't wrong about something close to 11 million kunas of projected funds. Realized, or accomplished, under a million kunas. So we have an absurd situation to close the county road one closed, five villages cut off, an ambulance in case you need to come additional 55 km to work. And it's the same success that comes from this. But so that not all of me so as not to turn out all of ORAH's negativeist club has proposed one amendment. I know the deputy minister saw him. I hope the government will consider it. And what's this about? The Centre for Peace Studies has proposed, in essence they are the promoters we have only put it in shape, the official form of the amendments, that, based on their agreements, the association gathered in... the platform for international civil solidarity of Croatia propose that 4 million kunas in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs are intended for competitions for associations providing development assistance for refugees in the proposed item. In light of this amendment, I think it's clear enough and I think it's fair and correct to commend the Peace Studies Centre on this initiative. I believe, especially given this state that is currently happening on the eastern borders that these funds have a place to spend and that there will be hearing from our government. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119550	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Kresimir Bubalo will speak. I'm sorry, I'm getting word now that Kresimir Bubalo called in for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119551	Thank you very much. Namely, I had to replicate my colleague Novak because you were just talking about HH issues. Not that there's no investment, but I'd say there's a systematic destruction of HZ at work, and in what way? I'll give you an example of Osijek-Baranja County. Of the 84 lines in the timetable at 39, the substitution was made. Then they bring in the buses. It's exactly the measurements on which the passenger line is located. And then it changes in the timetable and puts on some weaker timetable that doesn't suit workers or students, etc. and it's about substitutions. I'd say it's not a substitution, it's a prostitution of the HZ administration that systematically destroys rail transport, it's being transferred to bus transport, and the best indicator of not exactly investing in HZ is infrastructure space, supply crossings and what you were just talking about. But I almost picked up your replica board twice because you were talking about bridges that didn't have roads in front or behind the bridge. So I'm going to tell you that there's a modest investment in Slavonia and Baranja called the 5C Corridor Bridge that this government has failed to stop but there's no road ahead of the bridge or a fast road behind the bridge. And I can't even see in the budget rebalance the funds are being provided for that purpose. As the HDSSB club, we warned Minister Hajdas Doncic that a billion kuna is invested in that bridge, and before that bridge we have no road behind that bridge. And in particular, I would like to stress that we have slowed down all relations with Hungary and simply shared concerns about the area of Baranja and Sproje right on corridor 5C. That's what's wrong, that's what you don't see in the rebalancing of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119552	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119553	Comrade Bubalo, I'll agree with you in part. In part, I won't, and I won't be in the part where you've said a lot of things in a way that I don't say negatively or with the assumption that people don't know what they're doing in HZ. Look, if your superior is somewhere he works and he says you're gonna do it and you're gonna do it, then you have to do it, and so is air traffic, and so is road traffic, so is rail traffic. Although I don't know him enough but I don't doubt that the same situation in marine good, maritime transport. And so is all that is in the vault of Sinisha Heidash Doncic. And even though I've got a thick gap at HZ administration with you saying that a single company is three different administrations with what I don't know about HZ Cargo anymore, management is probably self-inflicted because a company like a company almost doesn't exist thanks to exactly a resorient minister. HH passenger transport provides a barbed resistance to survive. And HH Infrastructure, that's a story to yourself, that's a real story to yourself. I already made that argument once. The person who received such a expensive and large toy has so far had two jobs, was either a financial director or a person in charge of finance in two companies. You won't believe it, but both of those companies ended up in liquidation. Now, since the third time we're lucky, then we've given something that's really worth it, so once the person's on their way, let it go to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119554	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Kresimir Bubalo will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119555	The esteemed deputy president, the esteemed deputy minister, colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us rebalancing, but compared to what we talked about when the budget was being passed, there is not much change when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja's premises, but in this budget we do not find exactly items relating to capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja. It is located here and there in certain current aid positions, but Slavonia and Baranja need capital investments, they need systematic care. And that's why I can say on behalf of the HDSSB club that we're not going to accept the rebalancing, but we're going to comment on certain things that are relevant to the rebalancing itself. First of all, I would like to refer to the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which wrote that the Commission considers that better achievement of budget revenues from general sources should, above all, be used to reduce the budget deficit rather than to increase expenditure. That's what we all agree if it comes hard in 2016, we know it'll be post-election, but whoever's the finance minister, whoever runs the government, will have a pretty tough job. Instead, the deficit remained at the same level as originally planned, and the effects of additional fiscal consolidation measures were in fact repealed. We all remember that the finance minister who I can say that and the respect said that in the 12 months, he'd put a good pencil on the table before the budget was passed. We remember that he painted a pen, tried to get into a certain expense side, but it's also visible on this rebalancing that the pen melted and that certain things that might have come back again and then when the pen went off simply went back into the budget. Therefore, we will have problems next year and with the European Commission, we will have problems with ourselves, because what is coming to us will not be great. That's what my predecessors talked about. Although we can say that this year's move has gone to the burden of units of local administration, I mean municipalities, cities where income tax has led to a reduction in their passages by almost 1 billion and 800 million kuna. We are assessing because of the decline in fiscal prospects that it may also be 2 billion kuna in this fiscal year compared to the last year, and this will be highly reflected in municipalities, cities, counties that will not be able to co-finance projects that are important to them and which serve to finance in particular EU projects. I want to say that in the 3rd month, I sent a memo to the Ministry of Finance asking me to take out all credit arrangements with amounts, currencies and maturity deadlines, and the Ministry of Finance did not reply after 6 months because I expected at least to make a move when there is cheap money on the market to make funding, to make a move where Croatia would get cheaper funds. However, it is evident that Croatia is paying almost 11 billion dollars a year, and if there are any disturbances in the market and on the existing arrangements we will pay more in the next year. It is often heard here in the Assembly that HDZ and SDP are fighting over who has made the major deficit, who has more in charge of the Republic of Croatia for us in the HDZB are almost similar figures when we talk about deficits, when we talk about duties, about mandates. So we have to watch how to put that debt under control to control ourselves, not to have someone on our side, and then share the pucks. This only clearly points to irresponsibility and disrespect for what is put before us. Here's looking at the budget, but looking at what's happening on the ground, the investment doesn't have much, looking at the budget and looking at certain positions, then we can say that VAT was filling up something better, but when we look at GDP then in the structure, that's what I said a little while ago, agriculture is just recording the decline. But when we talk to other capital investments, it is evident that there is a reduction. This is what we are particularly concerned about in Slavonia and Baranja because when we talk about other expenditures, other expenditures are reduced by 682 million kuna. The largest reduction of EUR 377,8 million relates to the Ministry of Agriculture, primarily due to the reduction of capital aid. This is what is not good, because we have to watch as we do in Croatia decentralisation, regionalisation and how to pay as much money as possible. Here's what we might do about certain positions relating to the expenditure side, so let's start with the Parliament, which I don't think is sufficiently informed, it's going to be 140 thousand kuna. But I want to point out to the Competition Agency. We have too many agencies, and it's logical that certain funds are being reduced, but we know on the market that our market isn't very regulated, we know which monopolies are, and the Competition Agency just didn't do its job well. But here it is visible when it comes to the control of drug abuse, it is precisely the position of the millions of kunas, which we in the HDSSB think is not the table to work at the moment when we see that our borders are hollower than cheese. When we talk about public debt, which I said earlier, then this government was planning to introduce a public debt system project. Now we see that five million 400 are coming down, probably this government has changed its mind, so it says that a public debt system project should not be done and five million and four hundred thousand kunas removed, almost the whole position. Looking at what is creatively seen as an economy, credits and guarantee programmes 228 million are being downloaded, and we know that this has affected the economy very much. We also know what the situation in HBOR last year was 35% less plasma than in the previous year, and it's also visible in this year that we're going to have less plasma. I'm afraid that's one of the systems with HZ that's the most trim, the slowest, and that hasn't done anything, and now they're still being stripped of three million kunas, and that's exactly what they're expected to do, to start managing state property, to manage their own property, because that's exactly what the State Office for State Property Management is expecting to put into office, not to talk about many land, property, and shares. What was selling was perspective, not perspective, was not even advertised. I'll tell you there are 30 Rules of Procedures in Osijek in the center of town, but no contests are eligible to be announced, not to put that property into office. Also, when we talk about asylum seekers, we've already said something on behalf of the club, we don't think those funds should have been cut there. What we're commending is that CROMAC is an increase in the amount of 31 million 510 thousand kuna, that's good because we need to demine the premises. Yesterday afternoon and today people are calling me from the field, especially from Baranja, and hunters who say people are walking in the fields, only we know there's a lot of minefields, and I'm afraid one of those asylum seekers would get into that mine space and get hurt. Therefore, these controls must be stronger and better. Those who are growing, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 82 million kuna, and it seems that we've misdesigned membership fees, I don't think that's good, I think we should be better prepared for the budget. The Ministry of Culture is growing 56 million 410 but we do not see it growing again, and there will often be money for the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, even the law has changed. But it was easier to change the law than to direct a kuna, which is called the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. So that's what's wrong and when the Ministry of Culture grows that the HNK in Osijek doesn't grow. It is also visible in the position of the Ministry of Agriculture of Defence against the floods and the CEB 76 million and 500 are removed, that is what is bad because we have often failed there, and we have seen the consequences of the damage that occurred last year. What's also falling is the Regional Development Ministry that encourages the development of 42 million, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure that we could talk about for a long time, about the corridor I said something about 123 million falls, that's what's wrong. There are capital investments and there would be a strong investment cycle, but that doesn't seem to be. What is evident is that we had a bad plan when we talk about the Ministry of Science, but the same thing about pensions, when we talk about health care that we misjudged. But what we are particularly concerned about at the HDSSB club when we talk about Croatia getting old, telling us demographics that in the next few years we will have a lot more pensioners than employees, that almost 100 thousand people have gone especially from Slavonia and Baranja. First there goes the family bearer and then pulls the kids. I'll tell you the information... Osijek-Baranja County, 10 years ago we had 33,000 children in primary school, today we have 22,000. It is not only the reason for the demographics, the reason for the mass eviction of people from Slavonia and Baranja, I especially stress Baranja. I want to say that we also expected from these companies that have done good business like HEP to launch a water or hydro power plant project in the Drava areas because not only is it important for electricity production but also for irrigation and it is a project that HDSSB will not give up, however, we are sure that we will speed up the step because this investment is needed, this investment is justified for the premises of Slavonia and Baranja. Looking at certain incomes that have grown is visible what is happening in the Republic of Croatia but we need to control the deficit and these billions and 800 million kunas should not have been spent but, in fact, we should have made sure that we are less in debt, that we discipline Croatia and that for generations that come behind us, which are our children we do not leave so much debt because no one will write off, we or our children will pay them back. Looking at what falls from taxes, which is a property tax related to real estate sales, 35.6 million with rebalancing, clearly indicates that the real estate market is stagnating but what will happen when real estate tax is introduced. From the other taxes on goods and services, we see that insurance is from... responsibilities and casco insurance to fall by 84 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And people seem to be gambling less, so the taxes on gambling are falling, too, to our unfortunate people's 31.4 million dollars. When we talk about taxes on international trade and transactions, I'm even glad that it falls 55.2 because I hope that we will export more and less imports. When we talk about contributions, I also see a correction of 23.2, 156 million. Also when we see help. But when we talk about business expenditures, we see that staff expenditures are growing, and that's what this government in Plan 21. We see that spending materially is also growing. When we talk about... 453 million, material expenditure 140, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports 162. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about financial expenditures, financial expenditures increase by 1.6% in the name of interest on loans received and loans amount to $11.2 billion. It is money that will greatly increase in the next time because we have run an irresponsible policy, we have not devoted enough concern, and when we have at this time had a surplus to try to control our costs that that pen that Minister Lalovac had sewn up, which unfortunately we in the Croatian Parliament can only watch our hands rise and Croatia is in debt and unfortunately not doing what would be necessary. So when we talk about these general expenditures that I've said and some things about, this rebalancing seems to us like it shouldn't have been done and it's better if it wasn't for him, it's better if we left the situation the way it is. But what we are calling for is fiscal responsibility from the mayor, mayor, mayor, minister to prime minister. And let's remember all those negative reviews of the audits, the negative audits for last year that have been going on and... for last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But at the end of this year, many mayors, mayors... to list the pronunciation of fiscal responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be very difficult to sign because unfortunately income tax was passed already when the budgets were passed, there will be rebalancing but you can't cut the budget in half during the year when you know you have more fixed costs, costs you can't influence and we see that the state budget has grown and the volume of the budget of municipalities and cities that it has fallen. Therefore, the move should not have worked, it should have worked on decentralisation and regionalisation, and that is what we expect after these elections. We in Osijek-Baranja County, but both Slavonia and Baranja were preceded by
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119556	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you said at the outset that a statement should be remembered when preparing the 2015 budget. At that time, various groups were formed, material spending was fucked, this was fucked, this rebalancing was precisely the one and the allegedly cut material expenditures and the right of employees who were not the subject of agreements and negotiations and the signing of new collective agreements, but of flatly interrupted payments. However, when court disputes began to be lost, when the jubilee prizes were to be paid 2 or 3 times more than they really are because they had to pay the court costs now suddenly decided to do so. But the biggest problem is that definitely when you look back after 4 years of the government's mandate, the expenditure side of the budget has grown, it has grown. So the expenditure side of the budget is now, I guess it can't be reduced clearly without structural reform. They must be the result of reforms, if reforms are implemented then some other agreements will be signed. And in the end, it turned out that the project that was taken over by the former government, which is a single salary account or a central salary account if it wasn't carried out the way someone imagined it, that's the same story as the OIB, you can write something down, but you don't know what the writer was going to say, that central salary bill was supposed to equalize wages for a job that was done in his state and public administration and not keep paying by the old one. The only thing that counts in one place. You still have in the Ministry of Education 30 and some extras on your salary. Still in the health care department and the police, people get a salary supplement just because they're formational in some department.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119558	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119559	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, there was a spiked pen, but we can see that it's numb and we see that it's coming back to the budget for something that's been taken off. But when we talk about the rights of the employees she's been spreading herself by heart, I'd say irresponsiblely. But it is also evident at the end of last year, but what we feel on the ground is that there will be a skeleton from the closet after this budget has been carried out, especially in health care where structural reforms have not been withdrawn, where what has been promised has not been done, so I would say perhaps what was wanted, but the dubiosis is huge and the debt in health without talking about payment deadlines. When we talk about the spending side you're right, it's grown, there's been no reforms, but what we can praise, not just the OIB, not just the fiscal register, not just some other stuff, the COP is good, but the central salary bill just pointed out, for example, here's colleague Novak talking about HZ, that you have people in HZ who beat up legs, who used to be in certain administrations, and today they're not, they're not doing anything and they have bigger salaries than the prime minister. So you see here that the system hasn't worked for years, and I'd say not since yesterday, not since yesterday, but years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119560	Next replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about a billion kuna surplus that appeared thanks to a good charge of the budget through VAT, and that income tax that was actually taken away from local self-government units. And what happened to that billion kuna? He immediately entered the expenditure side and here you can see before the elections what kind of situation we have and where all the places, starting with, we voted for to be given to both pensioners and therefore to all other categories, but it seems to have been used slightly and for pre-election purposes instead of being used perhaps in what you said was such a debt for interest per year by 11 billion kuna to maybe make some changes in terms of arrangements with banking institutions to reduce these interest rates because today is a relatively cheap capital market. In addition, when you talk about fiscal responsibility, you know that and you mentioned the State Audit, that it has found that several times the scope of the provision for consulting services and contracts on the work of exactly state institutions and agencies has been exceeded. How is it possible if there is a State Audit, if there is a law that says there is a right, I think 5% in relation to gross or net wages, that there are payments of consulting services and contracts based on an act contract so-called, to spend several times as much and that no one is responsible for it. That's why it's a good thing you mentioned fiscal irresponsibility. You were talking about fiscal responsibility, but it seems to me that it's fiscal irresponsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119562	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119563	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, it is fiscal irresponsibility, but I have also said that it will be difficult for mayors, mayors and mayors to sign off at the end of the year because they expect a major blow, especially what they often say, is that after returning taxes, their tills are empty and blocked. But looking at this surplus that we had, a billion and 800 million, not a billion, but a billion and 800, it certainly took less debt, taking care to bring in the finances, but that did not happen. Looking that it's just pre-election now, this rebalancing is done, so it shouldn't have been done, but what we're particularly concerned about is that there are no capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja and when the budget increases, and when it falls on the first one, the pencil is spiked. These days, people have made little jokes about Slavonia and Baranja, she says they used to promise us each other, and now Milanović and Karamarko... they won't even promise us any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119564	The third replica, the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119565	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about local self-government units and about the fact that the mini tax reform or changes in income tax are significantly reduced incomes, but that local self-government units couldn't change their budgets for a simple reason during the year, which their expenditures were given. So the fact is that local self-government units could rebalance if their income was so reduced. So, on the other hand, when you talk about the state budget and this rebalancing of the state budget, then actually that criterion you applied to local self-government units is no longer valid. And you also know very well that the largest part of the state budget is also in default, so pensions must be paid and social welfare must be settled and everything else, which is actually in the state budget and the largest items. Next, you mention 11 billion kuna interest, which will be a big problem, you say in the next year and the next years. Yes, interest is a huge problem because of borrowing, but how to settle all the expenses I mentioned earlier when you didn't have economic growth, and the fact is that our country was six years in recession. Here I remind you that there have been borrowings, it has not now happened over and just for the term of office of this government, so borrowing has been before in previous governments as well, but also in the situation of economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119566	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119567	Here's my dear colleague, it was a small tax reform after the budget was passed. You can always find 10% in the budget on capital investments, at certain material costs, but 40-50% you can't find and you can't get that kind of pencil. And I've been leading in two mandates of Osijek-Baranja County, the City of Osijek here for the past 10-11 years, and I know it's hard to cut or cut off that much. So let me tell you an example, the City of Osijek not so long ago had a budget of 600 million, and today we come to a situation that has 350, and in that time the state budget has increased by over 20%. Thus, seeing municipalities, cities and counties cut incomes, their liabilities being transferred, and the state budget rising, then it is clear that we did not respond in the best way to the times of the crisis, and in 2009, it is a major crisis... The Republic of Croatia. It was logical to cut the state budget at least 10% in the last year. Whether it could have been 1 to 2% a year, sure it could have. I know certain things have been done, and I know that it was necessary to negotiate, but there was also a need for systematic reforms in the past years. I'm afraid we're told that next year there won't be an interest rate of 11.2 billion, that it'll be much bigger, and God forbid we get into trouble because of these decisions we've made these days. Therefore, Croatia can come very quickly with interest and commitments per year to 14, 15 billion and then we know that we will not have a creative budget, we will not have the strength to make the turn that Croatia needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119568	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Ivo Jelusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119569	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues are rare, but they have us. This is one of the almost-said regular annual rebalances, but it's still different from everyone else in the last few years by one important thing. In fact, so far, we have always done rebalancing because, as a rule, the planned revenue projections have not been realized, and then it has to go towards reducing certain budget items. This time, thank God the situation is completely reversed. So this time what happens in reality is better in life than it's planned and that's why we're doing the budget, the budget rebalance. So in Croatia export growth, consumption growth, industrial production growth, employment growth, GDP growth. So all important parameters are growing or what we like to say in Croatia, lately Croatia is growing. So it is known that when there is no, there is no good, there is no stable good budget and stable state finances without a good and stable economy, without its growth. We are now finally here after a few years of falling, stagnation and falling, and more falling than stagnation we have the growth of the Croatian economy which is immediately directly reflected in the budget. So it also has the effect of raising the budget. In this year the planned growth of gross domestic product was 0.5% and was well predicted for the first quarter indeed and so it was. However, in the second quarter, we have an increase to 1.2, which for the first term gave us a growth of 0.8%. So, better than we planned. And so right now, I'd dare say we're really planning that at the annual level it's going to be 1.1% of the growth, and based on that, it's been done, and this one, the projection of this rebalancing. I said already, so exports grow more than we planned. We planned he'd grow 3.6. It grows 6.8%. Industrial production I said is growing, investment is growing. Even the personal consumption that was our problem we planned with a modest growth of 0.2% just so that, therefore, a little bit more than in the last year, then in the previous year. However, it is growing more than 0.5%. And some indicators of these, such as industrial production, are already growing from month to month, from quarter to quarter, and this is definitely an unstoppable trend, and so it will continue. So if we look at what makes up the gross domestic product, that its four components are exports, investments, personal consumption and public consumption. And if they're all growing, then it makes sense to grow GDP. And we now have a situation that really these components are growing, some more, some less, and that's why we have GDP growth. Of course, gross social, gross domestic product can also grow on the basis of very high investments which often can be unproductive and which can be financed from debt, and then there is an apparent growth I would say. So, statistically that GDP growth is, but in the long run, it is seen as a consequence of the investments it will not make, there will be no return in economic terms, and what will contribute to the debt. So this time, first of all, we thank our GDP growth for exporting and exporting therefore Croatian industry, goods production, and that is what makes us happy, and that is the healthiest if I can put it that way, the GDP growth component. Therefore, personal consumption of the population is growing because of two reasons. First of all, for economic reasons, I'd say psychologically. From economics, because simply by our decision, our change of the Income Tax Act we simply poured certain resources into, to citizens in their pockets on higher wages and we see that this directly reflects, therefore, the increase in consumption. And when we said that that would happen, many did not believe, many did make fun of it. But I don't, it's not a big satisfaction to us, but it's just that things are going the way we planned. And the other reason is psychological. People, if you want to spend a little more than before, because they believe it's better today than yesterday. They believe tomorrow will be better than today. I'd say believe what we're doing, trust this government, and don't be afraid for tomorrow. And therefore, and this is a very important component because as long as people are squeezed, as long as they fear what will be tomorrow there is no progress anywhere in any country, nor in Croatia. Of course the rebalancing itself can always look like it's not good when it's done, because that's not well planned. However, this time with a full lung, we can say that we did not plan well because we were too modest. We planned that these economic indicators that I was talking about would be somewhat more modest, but they are, fortunately, all of Croatia, indeed, much better. But let's look at something about income. So the revenues are up by 1.8 billion and not because, there is now a colleague of Bora Grubisic who said you know these 1.8 billion that you took from the units of local self-government what we have now installed in the budget which is absolutely not true, nor is it possible to do so. The increase is not of this kind but the increase in the first and foremost increased incomes from the tax without the tax rates being changed. So something is going on positively, so the rates are not increasing and the tax base is increasing. This is the result, therefore, and just before I told the amendments to the law that simply left the majority of the income available to the citizens for consumption and therefore we have the biggest increase in VAT tax revenue somewhere around 750 million kuna. There's also an increase in profit tax, so obviously in companies and companies it's better than we expected. And what it would have been and how much profit it would have been if we hadn't been three and a half years ago when we came to power to make a decision not to tax the reinvested profits. It would certainly be even more tax on profits now, but surely in the development sense in Croatia would be worse. However, it was a long-term measure that is certainly already yielding results, and in the future it will give even greater and even better results. Of course, except for the good laws, it's certainly good tax control. Not to mention the famous one, I'd say the fiscalization that must have contributed first of all to tax and first of all VAT is as good as possible. As far as spending is concerned, they are the truth God greater than they were in the original budget plan, greater in absolute but not relative proportions. So the share of expenditure in GDP has not increased. So in a relative sense, there was no increase in expenditure, but in absolute terms, when we look at millions or billions, it is. And it mostly went to items so first of all towards employees, to citizens in terms of social compensation, increased pensions, allowances, etc. And it will again end up in citizens' pockets which I am as sure as I am before we changed the Income Tax Act already reflects increased consumption, and this will be guaranteed to reflect more consumption, and thus on greater GDP. A good part of these increased expenditures have therefore not affected the deficit in any way, because over 700, 770 million is something that does not affect the deficit, these are simply revenues from some of the EU's most notably for agricultural subsidies. So, the deficit remained almost the same in absolute terms, but more importantly relative to GDP, so it is 3.8% of GDP as previously planned and, of course, smaller than it was in 2014. I immediately have to say that from this comes first of all from the figure that says how much expenditure is when I have spoken in a relative sense that expenditure has not increased and thus we have maintained the fiscal rule that simply required that expenditures do not increase, that the share of expenditure in GDP is not increased, which is reflected. So we have a share of expenditure in GDP somewhere at level 43 and some percent of what is therefore still the same unchanged. So it's not anymore and we've followed the fiscal rule that we've been given or that we've given ourselves. What is important also, I don't know if anyone mentioned it, but for the first time or long it hasn't happened in Croatia when it comes to budget and good liquidity. So for the first time, the Treasury had the opportunity to appear on the capital market as one who borrowed money and not the one who asked for money, and it really didn't happen in Croatia for a long time. Although I still have time left, but since the time of day has passed I will slowly bring the end in a way to say that this rebalance was needed, first of all for a formal reason to coordinate the planned projections of the budget with the actual figures in life and that happened. It is good that these figures go in favour of growth, to see the incomes of the Croatian budget grow because they grow all components that are important for such a situation. So, GDP growth, export growth, investment, consumption, and that's what we've been waiting for for for a long time, and we've finally welcomed it, and now it's definitely a trend and it's definitely not going to stop. All of this, of course, is then reflected in the budget. I look forward to it, that Croatia is moving forward, that it is better in Croatia, and I think that is what makes all those who are well-intentioned and who want good for this country and these citizens. And keep it that way, so we'll all be better economics and citizens and us here including the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119570	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119571	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jelusic, so it's not like everything is growing in Croatia. You said earlier that Croatia is growing, Croatia may be growing but Slavonia and Baranja are falling. And when you look at the GDP structure of the third quarter of last year in agriculture -4, this year's first quarter -2.8, the second quarter -3 and now that I see that more liquids with other aids are coming down 377 million, then we can't be satisfied. And we all know that there was drought in Slavonia right in the third quarter and that it was necessary to help for droughts, that it also needed help for capital investments because Croatia is both Slavonia and Baranja and the area from which I come. And when you see people moving mass, there's no family from which someone hasn't left, there's a family farm being shut down, people not only leaving the village but leaving the cities, then we can't be so happy. You're in your section while you're talking you said one exact piece of information, which is that citizens are more paid. They are, but the costs are higher, and when you do an analysis of the last four years, then we can tell you that more prices have increased than wages have been raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119572	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119573	Well, my dear colleague Bubalo, you said if I remember correctly that Croatia is growing but Slavonia and Baranja do not, it falls. Well, if I were you, I wouldn't brag too much about it or talk about it. The same are the laws throughout Croatia, and in Međimurje, and in Istria, both in Slavonia and Dalmatia, and everywhere, and not in Slavonia and Baranja. And who the hell is your party in most of the power? So I wouldn't be if I were you to praise it because it's saying maybe your contribution to how you at the local level work in that area. As far as citizens are concerned, you said that the citizens had increased their wages, they had more money, but they also increased their prices, their costs increased. That's just not true. We have in this, so in the first half of this year, not a rise in costs, not a rise in prices, not inflation, but a decline in prices of 0.3%. Therefore, prices have not increased, prices have remained in general statistically speaking as a rule of the same or slightly lower and citizens have more money and are therefore spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119574	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119575	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jelusic, I simply had to replicate to you your part of the exposure that referred to everything growing as colleague Bubalo said. Investments are growing, investment in EU projects is growing, and then it seems to me that you and I haven't had the same budget rebalance in our hands. Yeah, for example. I note that in order to boost the competitiveness of the economy, by encouraging investment and using EU funds effectively when it comes to helping with EU transfers, we have a 70% reduction. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts have a 32% reduction. Reduction in the implementation of measures to promote the competitiveness of entrepreneurship and crafts. Even more than 75%, we will have a reduction in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion from 2014 to 2020. A 43% reduction in the implementation of measures to boost investment for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Even 80% reduction in networks of entrepreneurship and support institutions, while in the preparation and implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds we have a 22% reduction. Then how to prepare, how to prepare quality projects when you are now planning 125 million kuna from taking the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119576	Ivo Jelusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119577	Respected colleagues of Juricev normally can never grow all the items, but I was talking about those important components that make up GDP, they're all growing and that's why GDP is growing. As for the reduction... So all the components that make up GDP are four investments, exports, personal consumption, public consumption, all growing and therefore GDP is growing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's what makes us happy. As for incentives... it is true that something has been reduced, however you forget that this government adopted the Law on the Encouragement of Entrepreneurship 2.5 years ago and that it has started with these measures and that already some of these measures have produced some results. Finally, there is one that is not directly encouraging and they are called incentives, but it is quite an incentive to the economy, and that is when we immediately at the beginning of the term of office of this government have abolished when it comes to profit tax and said that all the profits that are reinvested will not be taxed. So we said, we stimulated the economy and the businessmen that if they earn, and thank God for that they work to earn, that what they put in their pocket and what they invest they don't have the same tax treatment not to be taxed equally, but what they put in their pocket to tax, and what they reinvested not to tax. And it's quite an incentive for the economy, and we've been doing it all these three years, and that's why we have the results. So that's how we do the incentives. Of course, we expect more funds to come from the EU and that when we talk about incentives, you know what the incentives in previous governments, your governments, etc. looked like. to mention only agriculture. From 2004 to 2012, 2011 until during the two HDZ Governments, agricultural incentives doubled and agricultural production remained the same in some segments and smaller. So incentives but they must result in larger production, larger physical indicators. At that time it was less, so now we wonder what you are, who you are and how you encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119578	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119579	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelusic, once, Mr. President of the Parliament, Leko told me that I was all there. Well, since I was in the HDSSB office downstairs, I heard your remark and my personal calling. Well, now let me tell you that I didn't tell you in my tail of the Bug that the income side of the budget is better charged just for the charge, the change in the income tax law. But first of all, I said with a better VAT charge and income from taxes and VAT. That was the first thing I said. So you're not gonna tell a lie, but you're telling a lie. Secondly, when you talk about the growth you already use in terms of the pre-election slogan Croatia grows then boast about the number of employees, with the number of employees. Is he growing or falling? Now tell me in the replica. How many places, so how many jobs were employed two years ago and how many now, and how many five years ago, how many now? There must be a growing number of employees in Ireland thanks to Slavons. Secondly, when you talk about Slavonia, don't say that HDZSSB rules Slavonia, perhaps rule that Posavina County in northern Bosnia where you are, where you come from, but in Slavonia there are five counties and five counties of which are four from HDZ. And in the capital city and the largest city of Slavonia, you and HDZ rule together. In Osijek, SDP and HDZ together, in Osijek, SDP and HDZ, it is probably so bad in Slavonia that it is just such a governance structure in our counties and in our cities. Furthermore, you must know that in Slavonia the average salary is 4.5 thousand kuna, in the Republic of Croatia is 5.5 thousand kuna. So 1,000 kunas less. And tell me more if the number of children in Slavonic schools from which 1,000 were written this year, in five counties written not less, but 1,000 children were written. It's that growth I don't know. You tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119580	The answer to the replica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119581	My colleague Grubisic, you're a good and frequent speaker, so there's a lot of things you say in two minutes I don't know I'm going to be able to answer all of that in two minutes. Now you said that I was wrong to say that in Slavonia there is a bad situation because you are in power and HDSSB, that you are not actually there in power,...you are nowhere to be found. And that comes back to you if you all say to yourself that you're nowhere to be found then that's your business, but I thought at least in Slavonia and Baranja there's you somewhere. But that's your business. As far as calling is concerned, no, I don't call you God, none of us should be calling anyone here. All the citizens will call us in a few weeks and we'll see who's standing. As far as the truth is concerned, I'm still saying I don't think I told the truth, you said you took this from the units of local self-government 1.8 billion kuna and now it's in the budget showing up in the rebalancing, etc. I said it's not true, it's just that these money isn't in the budget or it can be. If you didn't say so, I'm sorry. I understood it that way. Please, I understood it so well, and that's how I interpreted it, if it wasn't the way I apologized. As for employees, let me say one thing you may not know or rarely mention here. This government has introduced order in this country as part of one of its own task, which is to introduce order in this country. Over 50 grand we had fictitious employees in companies that didn't exist, no contributions were paid, no salaries were paid people were fictitiously reported. And this government took it and solved it and it was settled at the end of last year, so it's succesively solved and... Fifty thousand like that. And now it turns out that the number of employees has decreased... 50 grand, right, but not because they got fired like they did in previous years, but because we put in order and told whoever works, and whoever doesn't work, don't be fictitiously reported and just fills us with statistics and makes a mess in the IRS...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119582	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came the esteemed Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119583	Thank you, dear Vice President. What I think is most important to say with this rebalancing unlike the rebalancing of previous years is that it is the result of the growth of the Croatian economy, so positive developments in the economy. And these positive movements did not happen in themselves, they are the result of the government's policy, the policy of fixing inherited chaos, the policy of establishing order and conditions for progress. After 6 years marked by the recession, budget revenues are finally growing, while fiscal consolidation continues, although we must recognise not at the pace that this should be. For the first time since 2008, Croatia makes more money than it spends. The best indicator of growth in the economy is income from profits. Namely, Croatian entrepreneurs' profits have doubled compared to the previous year. This means that the economy has launched, that government measures related to non-taxation of reinvested profits with a reduction of parafiscal burdens, with the approval of a series of financial support were encouraging, to obtain certain results. Of course, the European funds for which the withdrawal in the budget is regularly secured must not be forgotten. Furthermore, VAT revenues are growing, as the most important source revenue of the state budget. This means that the government’s fiscalisation project has increased, therefore, the tax discipline of taxpayers and the reduction of tax ejaculation. The growth of VAT, and we know that VAT is a consumption tax and that the consumption of Croatian citizens is growing that they have increased purchasing power. Of course, even the increase in purchasing power has not fallen from the sky and it is the result of appropriate government measures, notably tax reform which has increased personal deductions and which has changed tax classes, which has positively affected net wage growth. Furthermore, consumption growth is also the result of pension coordination. So pensions grow, modest but grow. We are sitting in HDZ's government has frozen them, in this rebalancing, for the harmonisation of pension funds of 133 million kuna. For the first time in December of this year, the pensioners will also get the Christmas card as we like to say it, and it is about the residual funds from the Pension Fund. Finally, personal consumption, contributions and the reduction of the number of unemployed are growing. We have 256 unemployed right now, which is the lowest level since 2009. Further, growth and income from assets, through increased payment of concessions. Why and how? By identifying all state property from land, through buildings, public buildings, apartments, garages, etc. She introduced that property into the register of state property and the masters of it in the manner of a good master. Therefore, these revenues are also the result of the introduction of order and better management of state assets, i.e. available national resources. Even the excellent results of the tourist season are not random, although here I cannot deny that they have partly fallen from the sky, so to speak. So the long warm summer had an undisputed impact on these results to be excellent, but if the government hadn't done a good preparation of both pre-seasons and tourist seasons and sub-seasons or help from the sky could not bring 8 or a little more billions of kuna revenue. And to conclude my debate, the rebalancing is based on increased economic growth and that is absolutely what is most important. So the government has changed the negative trends in positive trends and these positive trends, which is also very important to be intensified from a period of time. This rebalance is to say rebalancing to optimism or as Galileo Galileo would say "but it's still moving".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119584	Thank you. The last individual debate is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I've been listening to this chaos all the time, but if I'm not wrong about handing over the government, it's got a new government book like this. Well, it would be good if from that book all the lies that were written inside had been listed and it was said that this and that minister lied about it, that and then we could talk about some things. But my individual debate goes in one completely different direction. And I'd just like to highlight two things. One is the attitude towards Croats outside Croatia and the other are the financial plans of extra budget users we unfortunately never get to process. However, I've given myself a little effort now to dig through them so many things aren't clear to me but we're where we are. So the pompously announced office for Croats outside Croatia, the Law on Relations with Croats outside Croatia, however nothing happened in principle except that the money from all ministries was collected in one place. And now I was very surprised to see that the small funds in the Croatian office outside Croatia are shrinking by a million kunas anyway. It may seem little to these hundreds of millions of kunas, however, when you look at the scholarships of students of students of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, 281 thousand kunas are spent and scholarships for students of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, international development cooperation of 2 million and 200 thousand kunas, then you can see that practically 40% of these scholarships can be increased in the name of that. Why? Because for four years, someone has been constantly planning a lot of resources for employees, and they never come true, and those funds fail. However, there is one more thing I want to say here, I am sorry that no one has responded to the fact that the Croatian Office for Croatians outside Croatia has funded the translation of books from Cyrillic to Latin, from Serbian to Croatian in which Croatia's history is completely distorted. And it's funded by the funds in this position, it's a tragedy. And it is regrettable that no one from Croatia has responded to that. Is that what we're up against? With Croatian taxpayers' money, we're paying for a distorted Croatian history in Serbia? And to finish this part, and that's the Queen of Croatian emigrants down by 350 thousand kuna. Again, someone has planned wages and other things, and it has been able to deal with some programming activities. But we're going to this part of the extra budget fund. Frankly speaking and looking at the proposal to amend and supplement the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and recovery of banks, it is not clear to me where the expenditure on financial assets and the payment of loans came from now on. Why use the 400 million team more if the decision to give consent does not mention that 400 million. But on the spending side you can see these 400 million kunas because it says the Deposit Insurance Fund, issue for financial assets and loan payments, an increase of 400 million kuna and says bond expenditures. What bonds did DAB buy beyond the financial plan? How could someone buy them past the financial plan? How could someone buy them past the financial plan? What financial cats and transactions are financed by these funds? What's that? That's what I want to know. We're going to have a great story, a proposal to amend and supplement the Fund's financial plan for environmental protection. Very interesting that expenditure increases by 286 million or twenty-one percentage points, but also revenues by special regulations. I couldn't find an explanation anywhere that increased from 5 million to 628 million kuna. But it's very interesting that on the spending side, what classically remained unremarked expenditures grow from 545 to 689 or by 143 million or by 26%. All this happens practically at the end of the 9 months when construction seasons end and all together and the question arises who is able to spend those almost 150, slightly less than 150 million kuna by the end of the year. But very interestingly, there is no position on the Environmental Protection Fund that has not been changed in the country's supposedly arranged situation. There's no position. My colleagues and colleagues, look, all positions have changed. Everything. This is obviously the ironing of what was pre-expended probably from the one, some sort of tower or what I know. Croatian highways we took 20 Lips, actually Croatian roads, we took 20 Lips to Croatian highways, we gave them to Croatian roads. That's something less than 500 at your level, actually, it's somewhere when you take 60, billion 400, so that's about 500 million kuna a year, 400, 500 million a year. But very interesting that the Croatian Roads plan is reduced continuously every year I don't know why. Croatian Health Insurance Service, this is a story for itself. It's a decision to give consent and it says here that total revenues are 21 billion 968 million, total expenditures 21 billion 968 million. And then later you have there on some page a proposal for consolidated changes and additions to the state budget and financial plans of extra budget users. And then it says neatly to you that at the position of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance there are revenues 19 billion and 568, expenditures 21 billion 968 and less than 2 billion and 400. Now I'm really not clear with this HZZO anymore, and it's in short supply, not in short supply, what's going on with it. And the other thing, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, look, this is your financial plan for HZZO, two pages. While he was in the budget as part of the Treasury, he had 30 pages. And now I'm interested in seeing that after my debate on behalf of the club, I didn't get an answer to that question, from which resources, given that the HZZO plan does not state this, which means that the legal provisions increase the position of the Ministry of Health by some 350 and a few million more, and these are mainly funds for financing clinical hospital centres. Whether this is in line with Article 80 and which of the Health Law, if that is the case, in the light of the state budget, it must be stated that in accordance with Article 84. Health law increases revenues at the position of the Ministry of Health. It is not so, therefore, so much about transparency, so much about how it will be better and how it will become increasingly clear when HZO is isolated from the Treasury. Me and today I claim that five times it was better when he was in the treasury because we had all the resources on one pile. This part I don't get here, and it's about HBOR and some other things I'm going to say when I talk about the State Budget Act. So this kind of cremation in the financial plans of extra- budget users is our fault, because we always focus on the state budget and no one ever discusses the financial plans of extra- budget users. But colleagues and colleagues, health care, water industry, DAB, the Environmental Protection Fund, and still there, which is totalling 27 billion kuna, and these 27 billion kunas have explained to you on the 10 pages of the text. On level five, we can only dream of a third level, and we'll never see them, but no wonder, so we have a deficit of 18 billion kuna and that's why we have a rise in public debt to 90% of GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119586	Final minutes belong to the Deputy Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here in the shortest lines to try to look back at the debate. In all parliaments of the world, more or less rebalancing is happening in all countries of the world and in these lower parliaments, the rebalancing is simply very difficult to predict what and how will happen on the revenue side, and also on the expenditure side very often some expenditure is shown to be less necessary or more necessary or different higher powers can be redistributed and then always the most transparent way to realise it is in the Assembly itself. Parliament through rebalancing. Of course, there are provisions of the budget on current distributions that we also do and which are not rare, so I dare say, perhaps that one information would be good for raising the general standard of informing MPs, but I am saying the basis of the debate whether they are in plus or minus the budget of growth or decline. This budget is growing which has not been a common case in Croatia, usually budgets have fallen more and more times it has been much harder for the Prime Minister than for me today to defend budget rebalancing before the end of the year because it is still growing. I agree with some debaters, especially with former senior officials from the Ministry of Finance that the finance minister is not the happiest person, at least in these talks before the government and that he is always happier when a certain surplus is achieved and that he wants and wants to see that the spending party is reduced as much as possible, that in particular in a country such as Croatia and the deficit and consequently public debt and all other costs are reduced to the extent that we assess from the financial aspect of our conservative world view would say some other sciences and savings, to be realized but there is. Usually, the representative of the Ministry of Finance is particularly late in the hour here, and then defends the budget of the entire government, so I am pleased to say that many things thanks to success, thanks to economic growth and thanks to better work of the body, and also the bodies of the Ministry of Finance and the IRS, thanks to better incomes and expenditures, have managed to increase the costs that are important and necessary. I won't list them now, I wouldn't take them to you on that side of the time, but I personally have confessed to the Finance Committee, and I'm unhappy when at the end of the year we realize that we lack pay in certain restaurants, yes, we miss the Ministry of Science, we miss the Ministry of the Interior, we miss much less than the previous or previous years, but it is not a happy variant, and if, with the help of all of you who are responsible for looking for a story with the help of a fiscal committee led by a colleague Gjurkovic, if we start raising standards in that field, personally regardless of the position and the opposition, I'll be happy. Maybe a good sign, maybe not that this rebalancing is good and a small number of amendments, at least so far, we've got and time is running out, and with this debate I'll end up with if there aren't any of your replicas, only two amendments of which I think we'll even reject for technical reasons, that they won't be able to be debated. So if that's a sign that this budget is good here we stand. We actually expect that the vote will be voted, the position always votes for the budgets, the opposition vote against the budget and the rebalancing. All in all, I thank all the clubs that have recognized the efforts and these governments in all their work, in all the fields where this country's life has improved, and then it has its own financial impact on the finances themselves, an increase of 2 billion. So did all those colleagues who found the right constructive criticism and told them what things should be improved. Here in this final word I mentioned some of them. It's not easy to say and answer all these questions, because here's everything that's been mentioned, and it's not the best thing to do with this last discussion of fellow Shucker and the previous discussions on behalf of Mr. Novak's clubs, and here's to make sure I don't forget someone. So HZ, HZO after it came out of the treasury all other extra budget funds, water etc. It's all in the jurisdiction of some other colleagues, so maybe I can't give the best answer, maybe I can. DAB is as much under control as my minister who is in the board of directors, but also the two of you, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the president of the economy, so we can do the same if we need to squeeze even though I think we have an answer for this story last set by our colleague Schucker. Here, in order to avoid getting my thanks to everyone who said they praised the changes in this rebalancing, thank you to everyone who pointed out, constructively pointed out the criticism. A lot of them aren't new, we're making more progress every year, and the State Audit report tells us that some of the things we have to change in these months, the two days we have left. We'll try to fix it, and then some other people I believe will continue in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119588	Thank you, Deputy Radjenovic. You have one replica, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Radjenović, I expected that since when I was saying this, I don't know if you were in the hall on behalf of the club, given this situation, the extraordinary situation that currently exists in Croatia, and since we are all aware now, we release politics. I'm not really saying this for political reasons, but just for pragmatic reasons what the situation is in both the Red Cross and the stock stores, especially after those basic disasters that hit Croatia last year. It might be wise to strengthen some positions in stock or elsewhere, before voting on the budget. I don't know how many liquid reserves you have left, so I'm saying it was my suggestion that the government might consider it. And as for the amendment and I'm going to end it, I think it's clear to everyone why this budget rebalance was made. And now go for this or that reason to write amendments that just can't be accepted, because this budget rags what you just have to pay for by the end of the year I don't think it makes sense. I think that the unwritten amendments show more the responsibility and awareness of those from the ruling ones, in fact from the opposition than that someone doesn't want to participate in that some things change, because there's just nothing more that can change here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119590	The replica corresponds to Deputy Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119591	... To change, to change to up 2 billion... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So good is what we're changing with this balance... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Miljenko managed to turn me on. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] We're changing up. So two billion up. I mentioned this about the amendment conditionally, of course it was there and in the history of political options when very many amendments were being taught, so it lasted long into the night or long in the morning, and there was an option when I said no, it doesn't make any sense that what you're saying now that the amendments are at all surrendering because by ruling they don't listen anyway. Either way, it's a legitimate way. What you mentioned last is that, among other things, I wasn't on one side right during your debate, I went out because I was just talking to the head of the State Office for Protection and Rescue. ... Government decisions and a working team or kill me now not to say wrong to the commission, the Commission for this crisis has been established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were just discussing these financial aspects and not possible but certain costs, but we still don't know today... which can result from this refugee crisis that is currently happening in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We on and here with colleagues sitting next to me, we on the current reserve still have a relatively significant amount of funds, between 10 and 20 million kuna, which is questionable whether it will be enough. I'm still having a hard time estimating. This amendment we received goes in the direction of exactly one of the ORAH clubs, that one of the items from the Foreign Ministry is 4 million and 800, if I am not mistaken, transferred for this particular purpose. So, the decision was for now and it's too soon since we adopted the rebalance on the government, so three, four days ago. There was still an estimate at that time that these funds from the current reserve were sufficient. If not, the government can still do so with its amendment proposal. I wouldn't be the one to prejudge it right now. You know that the Deputy Minister doesn't have such a wide range of responsibility, he's now prejudged how. But it's possible anyway. Thank God it's possible 2 billion more, so we're going to hit somewhere else, if it takes another five, ten, fifteen million. But in any case, secure funds for this story.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119592	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119593	We move on to a decision on the established, discussed agenda points. The proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, the debate on the text of amendments and the addition of the state budget has been completed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and 36 votes against, a proposal has been accepted to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic's government representative to introduce us into the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119594	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me explain the reasons for this amendment and briefly explain what this is really about. Therefore, on the basis of the discussions presented in the parliamentary committees and the requests received by the budgetary users for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia necessary for the provision of additional funds for certain activities, the redistribution of funds in the draft amending and supplementing the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted this amendment yesterday. So we propose this amendment to redistribute 15 million 137 thousand 558 kuna within the financial plans of the budget users for this year. There are two parts to that amendment. The first part refers to the financial increase of the Ministry of Finance's plan of 11 million EUR 677 thousand 866 kuna in order to help local and regional regional self-government, and in order to amend the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, means one whole set of units, which gives units the possibility of achieving aid to the actual return of income tax in '15, and in order to be able to fulfil their obligations prescribed by law and any legal functions that are due. The funds for this amount, so just over 11.5 million were found in the distributions of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. The second part of the amendment concerns redistribution within the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is proposed to redistribute in the total amount of 3 million 459692 kuna in such a way as to redistribute 320549 kuna from the activities of the insurance of pupils and students in practical teaching and professional practice, to the activities of education and education of children of members of national minorities, and to redistribute the amount of 3 million 139143 kuna from the competitiveness and cohesion project fourteenth to 20th priority one and ten on the project of development of human potentials, priority two, three and four. This proposed amendment of course does not change the total amount of funds planned in the draft amending and supplementing the State budget for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119595	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119596	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The way it started, the way it ended. These amendments to the budget rebalancing are the face and face of the work of this government. For 10 months now, we have been warning in this House that the amendment of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and the erasure of the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget to the return of income tax in areas of special state care has led to the collapse of over 200 local self-government units over the past 4 months. There are many in the collapse right now and the question is what will happen to them. I'll talk about it a little bit more when I talk about amendments to the State Budget Act. So this amendment made the government aware after a week that local self-government units lack 11 million kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, at 100 and 20 so many billions of kunas, you can think that 11 million kuna is one miserable amount, but that's what let's buy last hour which vote if we can. That's a fact. However, where these funds are being removed from is the face and face of this government. The Veli are being removed from the Ministry of Agriculture, aid within the general budget, and this is the operational programme of the environment and priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture. And now look, that position in the budget rebalance has been reduced to 24 million and is now reduced by another 5 million and 877 thousand. These are the same money that should have ended up on one of the local self-government units projects, so the money that should have been transferred to local self-government units. So they took it here to return it to them in another way. And when you add up all the local self-government units together, they remain damaged. The next amount reduced by the Ministry of Regional Development, where 5 million and 800,000 kuna are taken from capital aid. And you know who the Department of Regional Development's capital aids go to? They only go to units of local self-government weaker budgetary or income powers. So this is where you took 5 million and 800. But look, but it's very interesting that this amount has increased by 57 million budget rebalances. Well, someone probably estimated a week ago that position needed 70 million by the end of the year, so they increased it from about 12 million. But now suddenly someone remembered in these four, five days between the budget debate and the vote that it still doesn't need that much money. You need to take to patch up the hole and 5 million and 800 thousand kuna. But it's particularly interesting this third amount, which is at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, where apparently people didn't know in the ministry that they lacked money to secure the effects and students on practical teaching and professional practice because apparently high school students didn't do it in their opinion, so they started working, so now money is being provided. And right now, I don't want my colleagues and colleagues representing national minorities to get me wrong, but this is humiliating what they've done to you with this amendment to the rebalance of the state budget. Because if you belong to those funds for the education of children of national minorities, then someone should have known before the start of this school year. And you can't get into a school year with certain programs unless you have the insurance money to do it. And it's really extremely humiliating to be courting local self-government units in this way and to take care of the education of children members of local self-government units. So I repeat, how it started, how it ended. Unaware of the situation in which Croatia is located, spilling from hollow to empty, buying votes thinks it will win the election, but it will not help them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119597	Thank you too, fellow Shuker. Any other interested in the debate? I don't think so. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, no abstentions and 32 votes against the adopted amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're moving on to the amendments to the ORAH Representatives Club. One amendment, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119598	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the amendment of the ORAH Representatives Club proposes to increase to the division of 040 of the Ministry of Interior for the project of capacity building in the field of asylum, visa systems, illegal migration in the amount of just over 4 million kuna, and for the same amount, a reduction is proposed in the division of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to activities and assistance to organisations engaged in humanitarian activities abroad. We accept the amendment in part for the reason that, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' financial plan, the items currently available are only 2 million and 179 thousand 339 kuna, since some of the funds have already been made out of nearly 2 million kuna. It is estimated that a million kunas would be enough, so we accept the amendment in part in a way that changes this amount to a million kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119599	Amendment applicants? Honorable representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119600	Dear Deputy Minister, here it is we have submitted this amendment to the Peace Studies Centre initiative. We believe that the crisis that Croatia, but also the whole of Europe, is currently facing is one of the most serious problems facing the EU in general and that it is necessary to find the means to deal with this crisis as successfully as possible. Of course there is a very important logistics, of course it is a very important security issue, but it is also an important financial issue. We are aware that Croatia has received certain funds that are yet to be realised from EU funds but we believe that this budget rebalancing should nevertheless be used to find more serious funds to deal successfully with this crisis. The estimates made by the Peace Studies Centre say that if this is the way to solve the crisis in Croatia, in fact, about 30 million kuna should be allocated so that I believe that this amount you are proposing is actually insufficient for these needs and I ask you to try to find some other way in the budget. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119601	We'll vote on the rest... Yes, we will vote for the rest of the amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The government does not accept the rest of the amendment by the ORAH Representatives Club. Please vote on the remaining part. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the rest of the amendment has not received the required majority. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Please vote. Pardon me, a warning, for the adoption of amendments and for the addition of the budget, most of the votes of all MPs are required. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. The Constitution of the The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 33 votes against the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendment adopted and part of the amendments. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the changes and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 32 votes against a decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2015 are in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We move to a decision on the Decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2015. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative, Branko Hrg, but was not submitted in accordance with the Budget Law, so we won't even decide. Please vote on consent. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 31 votes against a decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2015. Please decide, vote on a decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 35 votes against a decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales for 2015 in the text proposed by the Government. 5, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2015 Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes have been made a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2015 in the text as proposed by the Government, 82 votes to, no abstentions and 33 votes against. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2015. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, no abstentions and 31 votes against a decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2015 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 6, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2015 Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, no abstentions and 34 votes against a decision to give consent to the amendments and addition of the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for 2015 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion, the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal. Please vote on this conclusion. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 115 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the accepted and proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119602	We move to the next item of the agenda. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 908. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on War Veterans. You've received reports. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Deputy Finance Minister Igor Reddenovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a very short one. Taking into account all the circumstances, so with the state budget and so on and any amendment and addition of the Croatian Parliament must, of course, also pass a law with this name, so the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law. And so I say with these amendments and the additions to the law itself, we propose to you both the most significant amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the state budget. And the most significant changes allow me to tax them are the following: to reduce the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic money and capital market, and as shown in the financing account, so it decreases by 36.3 billion to 28.9 billion. We had a brief discussion on the Finance Committee yesterday. He announced that he would ask again. One significant part of the deposit apparently last year we misjudged, not enough precisely, about the transfer. So when the budget was passed, the estimate was 6 billion 200 that the transfer of deposits from the previous year was. We increase it by this change in rebalancing by another 5 billion, so to 11 and 200. So on that side it's... The second amended figure is the reduction in the amount of the guarantee stock from 548 to 268 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third is a reduction to the amount of HBOR funds, so from 552 to 52 million, drastically to one tenth. Some of you are members of the Governing Council there, you know that HBOR unfortunately doesn't now go into some deeper explications has enough resources and that he hasn't quality-placed them in relation to what he had, so we've estimated that at this point that this figure is not necessary for the recapitalisation there on the one hand, and on the other hand you know that we've had to re-apply the funds to some other positions. In addition, these amendments and additions lay down additional rules for the implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds, which we count will enable more efficient use and give local self-government units a slightly greater flexibility in the use of aid funds, which are provided in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Finance. Here these would be about the most significant changes to this document, which follows the document of amendments and additions to the Croatian State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119604	There's a Kresimir Bubalo on the opening line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119605	Very short one replica. Let's miss it by 100 million, 200 but 5 billion is a little too much. Who's gonna answer for it and who's to blame for missing? And we were paying some interest in the meantime when it went wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119606	Would you like to answer the deputy? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119607	Yeah, I don't know, maybe our plans are worse, but the news is actually good. The deposits were much better than what we planned. So we were modest in our estimates, and that modesty reflected in 6,200 billion that we would succeed at the end of the year and transfer to the next. By the way, we've transferred 11 billion. I didn't boast about it, but here's what you've already made possible. Maybe that's the consequence of what Mr. Lalovac said loudly over the past few years. Don't waste it, don't spend every rabbit. So on the other hand, it's a positive effect. Now, I'm talking to my colleagues, and we're pretty conservative this year, and again for the next year about this transfer, but it's already one too long subject, and it's harder to explain in a minute. In any case, you're right, Mr. Bubalo, that when there's such an index big difference between an assessment and an execution that we need to think about the methodology by which we're assessing what's really going to happen and that we're doing certain repairs. Thank you for your notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119608	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the SDSS club, Milorad Pupovac reported. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss the club. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119609	Thank you very much. Apparently the technical law, however, the last time I discussed this law, then I asked what about the provision on the level of public debt that has always been defined by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. At that time, I was told that this was removed from the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and that this would be defined by the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. Unfortunately, I didn't see it in the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And we more than the moment we removed that provision then the level of public debt was somewhere around 68, even though this law said that the level of public debt couldn't be higher than 62%, simply so administratively, no matter how much we didn't stick to the provision, we removed from the law that defines how the budget was spent. Frankly speaking, Mr. Deputy Minister, I am negatively fascinated by the ease with which you have explained why and how this position is reduced for the possibility of borrowing. Well, look, we brought the budget practically at the end of the 12th month, let's start at the beginning of the 12th month, and then it's said that the Ministry of Finance will be in charge on the international and domestic financial markets for one amount to cover the need to repay the old loans that come at the end of the 1st of the second month. However, let's look at all the reports and you will see that in a rather strange and mysterious way the Croatian government in the US market has raised a loan of nearly 5 billion kuna. And this is no economic nor economic behavior but simply the fact that we entered 2015 with 11 billion and slightly more kunas for which we were in charge and for which we paid interest, which we didn't need at that time. We didn't need that amount at that time. And this famous story about extra income, etc. So we're in debt a month and a half ago, or two months ago, at a domestic bank club for about six billion at an interest rate of 4.6%. So why would we do that if we had such good income? Why are we paying the interest 4.6%? More so, given the resources available on both domestic and international financial markets and in view of the dynamics of the payment of loans that come on payment, which the Ministry of Finance has quite well placed, is not clear to me why we were doing it? But that's good, but I'm saying it's not exactly what it wants to be. What I want to talk about next is Article 4. One of these, you can look at it, and you, Mr. Deputy, when you were a parliamentary representative, and later as deputy minister and complete Kukuriku coalition one of the most important, most important projects showing that you wanted to strengthen something was the story about HBOR and about the core capital of HBOR. But honestly, by leaving Mr. Kovac's activities, the HBOR had died. I'll make it public here. Why? Because some ministers have done some rather dishonest activities even though they have no right to do so. They cannot ask for certain information as ministers, they can ask for it as members of the Supervisory Board and they have the right to do so, but as ministers they have no right to do so. However, by leaving Mr. Kovacev many activities have died, there is colleague Gjurkovic, there is colleague Zgrebec, we are together on the supervisory board and unfortunately there has been on the supervisory board of certain things that have never happened before, but since then. And I think this consequence of this reduction of this item is the only consequence that the new people in charge of HBOR have not been able to manage the whole story. That's the only truth. The new HBOR leaders simply did not respect the government's policy. I may not have to say it as an opposition representative but I want to say it here publicly, I want to say it because of my colleague Zgrebec and I want to say it because of my colleague Gjurkovic and myself because we are three of your representatives on the Supervisory Board, representatives of this high house. And I think, given that they're uncomfortable because they're from the ruling coalition, I just have to say it. So this is not the consequence of this or that, it's the consequence that HBOR didn't do a bunch of things, he just stopped lending. It has been literally raped to finance certain projects that someone in the government has promised but these projects cannot be financed by any standard by the HBOR, by any standard, but it has put pressure on people in the administration to do so and therefore reduces this position, not because the HBOR has money or anything, but rather reduces the position due to incompetence and fear of the members of the administration. But I'd rather say incompetence because there's just been a lot of people who've made their trades over the past few years, and they've done their job well. And unfortunately, I am personally sorry, and I am in a certain way sentimentalally bound to this HBOR. I am sorry that in the end, I will also say this openly and honestly, the good wishes of the former Minister of Finance and fellow MPs and colleagues Gjurkovic and their co-workers Zgrebec and their efforts to strengthen and make HBOR a strong foundation of the Croatian economy, especially when the HBOR may be the only one who likes it or would not like it has done an analysis based on those models A, B and C which were as models for helping the Croatian economy in the wake of the biggest crisis. And perhaps HBOR has the clearest picture of what is the structure, what is the creditworthiness and would rather say the incompetence of the Croatian economy and in this whole situation HBOR, HAMAG, and all of the state leverages that the Croatian state has made in some former times and now should be helping to launch. And make sure that it was done in such a way and that it was forced that perhaps economic growth might look a little different but on a better base than it is. But I'm saying, I felt the need to say it. The second thing, for the evaluations and sources of the implementation of these laws, you know what the worst thing about the Ministry of Finance is going to provide funds from the original revenue of budget receipts. Well, at least the Ministry of Finance should be indicated if certain obligations are created at some of these points where they are going to come from. And something, if my colleague Mršić were here right now, the two of us would be repulsed to the point of unconsciousness like we've been doing for years. I don't think it's a good means for self-government units to give them to use for a variety of other expenditures, because it's going to happen that these funds are going to be spent without doing what needs to be done. Maybe some local self-government unit just doesn't get a lot of funding, this is funded, but I'm saying even too much liberalism sometimes isn't good. So, I am sorry that there is no provision on the level of public debt, I am sorry that this is happening with HBOR, and I am sorry that there is no further decision on the return of income tax from the unit of special state care in the State budget law to return it from the state budget. And once again, Mr. Deputy, I don't know if you'll accept it, I think the government would, because of the complexity of the situation, because it's obvious that the Parliament will disband itself in the next three, four, five, six or seven days, I think it would be a good idea for the government in the budget law to install the possibility that it can execute or redistribute or something necessary for the situation that we simply don't know what it's going to be like. This is my well-intentioned advice, and if you do, you will have the support of the HDZ Club, if it is not in our best interest to have chaos in Croatia. And if you can't provide food, if you can't solve a bunch of things, if you can't finance it, maybe it would be good for colleagues Rajic and colleagues Picur to have that experience of installing one article either by redistribution or by any other means that they can finance the costs that arise simply we don't know what it's going to be like. That's well-intentioned advice, you can do it until the vote. With this you will take down a big problem and all of us from the door because I say we'll probably disband next week and then you can't make any more decisions like that, so you haven't defined the basic document on budget implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119610	Ivo Jelusic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119611	Thank you very much. A fellow Shucker, truly commendable and pleased to have such once truly well-intentioned suggestions. It's really good and that's the way it should be because some things have to be above party life, beyond being the position of the opposition... we're all about this whole ship that we are on. But I wanted to say about the thing that you were talking about, and the previous replica before that was thematic, it was the responsibility. You're about like this why we're more in debt than we should be paying interest, and we didn't need it, 11 billion was transferred last year. There are two reasons for that, so I'm going to try and get my eyes on it. First, it is true that it is not well planned what counterpart Radjenovic said, however it could not have been planned well in any part of the plan because to remember, last year we ended up with three billion less deficits than we planned, we planned 15, and it was 12 and something, so three billion of us had less expenditure than we planned because it was more rationally spent, less spent and we were happy last year when it happened. So we planned three billion to be spent, no, we didn't plan well, but fortunately because we were more rational and there were three billion. And another reason why it happened, I'm going to use one of your Mr. Shucker Syntagmas that you often use here, a good me historically low interest. Last fall there were historicly low interest rates on the Croatian capital market and it went into debt because it was never known how long it would take, so it's better to borrow a little more because it was logic when it was this low interest and pay two months longer interest, but much lower than waiting two, three months when it took you. Who knows what the interest will be when the knife is under your throat then those who have the money behave differently. Therefore, these were two main reasons why there was such a greater transfer of funds than planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119612	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119613	You will allow me to know about the finances, and none of your reasons are correct. So, you know why it went into the last tranche of duty after that... in America and it's not at all controversial. I didn't question at any point, I just said if it was shyly indicated in the rebalancing of the state budget then it was necessary to explain it with at least two sentences, so I said yesterday my colleague Rajic talked about it until a colleague came along, so purely well-meaning because there is too much and if he doesn't explain it he will not open up a series of questions. And I can think that I am in the position of my colleague, Radjenovic, because you are saying what you would say to me for this amount. I'll never argue or argue like that. So I said things well on purpose by watching and choosing every word, first of all, because that job is done by people I've worked with for years. And another thing, I'm on a house where I'm never going to throw mud away for years, so I'm not going to do it now, but I thought that because of those who read this budget and who watch maybe it took a little bit of a different explanation. And what you said is simply not true because let's remember the events in terms that happened last year and at the end of the day, one part of the rebalance of this budget says clearly that last year's expenditures were far higher than they were shown, but I'm saying I wouldn't talk about it because it's good to just say some things to stay written down because of some future times. But I'm saying, God forbid this happened to me or that there's a colleague named Maric here now to explain what he would have heard on the other side. I didn't think of it at all, nor did I say at any point that the minister had charged, he simply had such an offer of investors, it seemed good to him, in the second month there was a large tranche on payment, it was not known what would be Croatia in the measures of excessive deficit, one million and one thing, don't make me talk now. So his assessment and assessment was that it was a good thing to do and I just said maybe you should technically since it was a great deal to explain it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119614	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go. Replica, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119615	I'm sorry, but I had a replica. My colleague Shuker said that Mr. Kovac was doing a great job and I would agree that he was doing an excellent job, but he also said that the new management president had failed. So if someone's playing in 2014. 35% less plasma than the year before, I'm not saying he didn't get along well, but I'd say he was doing a pretty bad job, that's all. That he didn't do anything. Therefore, these must fly from the HBOR. But it's sad when in Croatia, people who do a good job with those who can't do a job at all are changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119616	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119617	Yes, my colleague Bubalo, and after that, 35 percent of all the presses in HBOR and all the praise they had planned. And then you dig a little bit through the papers and then you see that it's about HZ, Croatian roads and similar state-owned companies, and HBOR is not about financing Croatian roads or Croatian highways. HBOR is a company to finance entrepreneurship and to create preconditions together with business banks because Croatia still because of its credit rating, because of this, it has a risk or security coefficient whatever you want between 2.75 and 3.20 as they charge us, while let's say the Germans have that coefficient negative, the Slovenians are 0.85. This means at the start of the interest account when you add more EURIBOR to it and see how much more expensive it is for Croatian entrepreneurs. And then it's logical that all governments and governments before and this one were looking for a way to make HBOR without violating international regulations to finance certain projects and programmes that go through the resolution ministries so that our entrepreneurs get a lower interest rate and in such a way that it doesn't grow and that one day it becomes something like German KFE. But also all of us, no matter what political option we belong to, no matter how much we fight, must fight that the HBOR must not be charged to the public debt of the state, must not, no matter what political option we belong to, because if it is not done in KFE, if it is not done in any bank that is similar then that EUROSTAT has the right to do so according to the HBOR, which at this time has a placement, practically a payload at a very high percentage level. But it's a political task for all of us. That's what I was talking about when I was visiting the German Parliament. Colleges how different relationships are to some things. But I'm saying about this budget law we don't unfortunately discuss, but it's three things that should have been discussed here. And I say what bad human policy HBOR means is the best example.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119618	And now on behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119619	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, dear assistant minister with his associates. I'm glad you responded to me earlier because when we analyzed the little execution of last year's but also our duties, we must be careful when we are in debt no matter how much debt we have. Here, when we talk about the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, it is of a technical nature but it is very important. When we're in charge, we need to take care, I'd say no to every kuna, about every million kuna, hundreds of millions, and there's billions here. We missed last year, I'm glad the deficit was less than we estimated last year, but we need to work on it to make it smaller this year and to get as little credit as possible because of the generations that are coming. Staff policy is important, and that is why we in the HDZ are looking for responsibility if someone missed something, if someone failed to meet the rules of fiscal responsibility, so he was the mayor, mayor, mayor, minister and even prime minister. Because management of public debt is very important, management of the system, risk assessment and what Mr Jelusic said just before and how we can be in charge of the market and at what time. I will repeat again, I hope by the end of this term that I will get an answer to the question I asked in the third month to get a list of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia with budgetary users, with currency, deadlines and interest that we have. And then I would somehow be safer to manage these public debt and liabilities in the Ministry of Finance in a quality way. If I can't get that information within 6 months from March here until September, then I'm worried about whether it's public debt, whether state finances are being managed and managed in one quality way. I was talking earlier about the position of public debt to cut that position where you probably wanted to introduce some new software to manage public debt in a better way. But we must manage him as in our family, taking care of every kuna, every lime, every interest and every deadline. So when you see that you've missed so much and it's big money, big interest is paid, then we expect the same responsibility of the people at the lower level who worked on that job. Just before I replicated, I said that HBOR is replaced by 52 million when we talk about individual articles and Article 4, in article 33, amounting to 552892. So we're reducing by 500 million and it's HBOR, HBOR which last year, i.e. 2014 35% less placed than it was a year ago. And then I'm not surprised why the HBOR point that was supposed to be in 6 months was just going down, going down, going down and not discussing HBOR until today. So there's some data being hidden and there's still going to be an opportunity to discuss probably beyond the new year on HBOR. We should have done this earlier, maybe the HBOR would have been more meaningful, maybe the people who run HBOR, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, means rebuilding and development, then channeling those money, find some new projects and programmes. If our country is in a cramp, if our entrepreneurs are in a cramp, if our HBOR is in a cramp, then we can't expect a stronger investment cycle in the next time. But looking at the data and ease of borrowing when we talk about billions then we need to be much more careful, much more sensitive to what we do in our homeland. In view of this implementation of the state budget, we can be pleased to take up the amount in Article 2. Article 27(1) reduces from 36 billion to 28 billion. It makes us happy, we hope that we will continue on this path in the next time, that we will be slightly less in debt in the next time, that the Ministry of Finance and the people who work there will be even better and even more responsible. A fellow Shuker mentioned PPDS, we're having a big tax return problem. But he also mentioned the non-intentional part, i.e. the means to be spent on purpose, so when you hit the budgets and they have to cut 50%, then I think that the measure for the transitional period is good so that money can be accidentally spent, because when you have to cut the budget so significantly then you certainly have problems. Therefore, this execution is a bit of a joy to me, but I expect in the next time that we will be less in debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119620	Vlad's closing statement, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119621	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's the shortest I could try to look back at what we actually agreed on, so I'm in my opening letter or final, more for the last point, not sure that people, economists in separate positions... More or less devoid of political debates more or less the presence of a great public interest and gallery with 5, 6 colleagues much easier to agree and agree what would be good if it were good, if it could be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not overnight, but if we were to take steps forward and hear each other from that side, it would be a problem. On the other hand, and that fiscal committee. The debt last year that, no, the minister's assessment, yes, the turbulent markets, what was, we would do well to have that administrative and technical capacity better, as Mr. Bubalo knows and much better than me, because he's been sitting in Katančić's 5 a lot longer, he knows Mr. Schuker. And it would be good if we could also motivate people into the end line because you know that it's a narrow science, a specialty that pays pretty well in some, let's just mention the banks now. Let's say... they're at a very good price is on a better salary than you and me, ours roughly similar to many other people. So a simple... a simple um, for which no one knows except for his wife and his boss who is exactly what he plans for the smallest bank in Croatia and has a better salary than all of us sitting here. It would be good for the state to come up with a model and on this side we are in this term of the Ministry of Finance, I believe that was the case before Mr. Schucker, confirm or deny by nod of the head. In conversations with the CNB, we are about to see how we can do better, so that it would be both Croatian and national to paraphrasise all of us in that debate yesterday, help in that field. And they have such cases, they have far greater space for more scientific, professional and time-accessing precisely such topics, and I think they could come up with a lot of things in that field. And I think I also talked about it yesterday in the closing letter that some future representatives after all this talk with the Swissman we have now successfully ended up in the end with unanimous support and the Consumer Credit Act and the Law on Credit Institutions, that in this Chamber, to return to this room the debate of the deprived daily political anxiety about the CNB Act and the opportunities it can provide in this field anyway. The fiscal responsibility law is still in the adoption procedure, that, with all the difficulties about it and there we have to rewrite this fiscal rule, it is in the process now, it ends with a public debate if Mr. Fitzor tells me correctly, it is not yet in the government's procedure. ... It's never over. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There will be new governments, as I like to say here by the second Government of Zoran Milanovic at the beginning of its term, will obviously have to propose it to the new, to which Madam Vice-President, the 9th Parliament is convened, and then we will adopt such a law. As far as this first topic is concerned, and the current liquidity of the budget is good, here's to compliment Mr. Fichor a little bit, when we've had enough of it on that side, it's been going well for the last few months. It used to be in debt for pensions and everything, you know how it went, now we've borrowed a little money on the money market even though I wasn't too happy internally, said let's not advertise too much, because then just before the rebalancing, we're just growing the appetites of these 19 other colleagues from other ministries, to wait for this rebalancing and then to make a little political use of it, but good. Consider this a semi-serious remark. The truth is that the current liquidity of the budget is good, but it's true and I'm going back to the first point, so we'd be good at managing and liquid liquidity and putting public debt on as much as possible on an even higher level. I'm not gonna say that people who do it right now don't do it very well, but they do it very well, but objectively there can be done a lot more and we need to find a way to get them so in the end line and pay better for it. As far as HBOR is concerned, there's been a lot of criticism, yes. The only thing that bothered me was Mr. Shucker's remarks when he told the wicked actions of some ministers. Discuss it on the Board of Directors, if there were any criminal acts, we know what that means. Yeah, yeah, okay, I figured it out at that point, so I made a note. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They are neither wicked good nor political good that we should say more specifically what this is about, or even this pay phone or say it on the press, say everywhere, and we ourselves understand within our human policies that we should return to political colors, and in the end, the whole public if there was anything to change things. Yes, the changed Mr. Kovacev from the head of HBOR by the HBOR Governance Council, which sits 7-8 ministers and 2-3 of you, actually exactly 3 of you, I'm not sure about the number of ministers, was there for 20 years and a new administration was set up. They didn't get along, someone said, yes, but she was changed, too. So the big difference between that, at least that's how I see it in human policy if you bring in some wrong human policy, I wouldn't want to weigh in on whether the colleagues asked for things that weren't possible, or if they didn't respond to a quality challenge anyway, but the truth that this staff policy was further implemented and that the new board president was there for as many months or two days and that now, what I hear, I'm not sitting there, things are still going better than this inter-government that was 3-4 months ago. Both last and not least, the proposal well-intentioned as you say, has been experienced, around this refugee crisis and the items that should be in the budget. Yeah, we'll still think about it, the assessment is what we're consulting right now, that the current reserve that's there so far could hold water, we still have the possibility of this redistribution 5% from each item, and that can hold water. We leave this assessment, as he said well-intentionedly, in a much wider circle of heads and besides for 2-3 days until we have to decide, that we will probably be smarter about the refugee crisis itself, so we will try to find a financial background for this crisis that occupys us, which I believe will not last so long and that on one side only in Croatia, and that we will also share both risks and responsibilities with all other countries in the European Union, with all 27 other countries that we have there. But now I'm coming out of the Deputy Finance Minister's sphere, I'm going into politics, and I'm putting a point there. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119622	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119623	Thank you very much. A colleague of Radjenovic, you mentioned one topic that has long been discussed, but the question is whether Croatia is mature for it, which is the Public Debt Management Strategy. So this job can be handled by people who are top masters in their work, who know how to do it, but they sure as hell won't do it for the clerk's salary that's here. However, we had a debate here about Swiss, about Raiffeisen. I will only tell you one example, in 2009, in the 10th month, for the first time in the course of the biggest financial crisis, the first of all European countries managed to issue bonds on the American market. We've betrayed them in dollars, but what we're doing right now with agents, so the banks that made us all these preparations agreed when there's a chance that we'll make a conversion. So we're going to hedging that loan and if we hadn't converted it from dollar to euro then the course was somewhere around, I think it was somewhere around six maybe. A little bit more, a little less, and today it's about 7. Now take a billion and a half of the bonds in America as much as the Croatian state today would have a debt in that one alone if it hadn't been done. So those modest capacities and people who have great knowledge at the Ministry of Finance along with the banks that we've been doing this job with, and that just means that in these turbulent times and in debt, it can be earned. There was a bond issue in the yen. It was a fellow Churchman. We could've lost an eye there, too, ho. However, when he came to collect that loan, Jen fell terribly and we earned a few million, a few dozen million. So it's just like that, and it's just something that when we talk about politics, we need to get out of here, and then we need to be all agreeing that it's something that the Ministry of Finance has to introduce, and it has to be removed from politics and from some that would deal with some kind of persecution, and they don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119624	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119625	I didn't understand your last line, but I totally agree with the one before, and that's why I answered the line. A step forward is the fiscal board of some to say expert debates about the cathedral and the like. Operationally, we should make such a thing, though, and I hope that we can reach a common solution there. I personally think that in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank in a much more directional atmosphere it is easier to do this, because, as you said, I, too, need to motivate those people in the end line for the job, and it is motivated by between the other and the salary on a monthly basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119626	Before I conclude the debate, it would be good to discuss more times in the chamber atmosphere, we come to a number of identical conclusions. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill next Friday, I suppose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119627	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, second reading, P.Z. No. 908. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on the Government's proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 30 votes against being accepted to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic's representative to explain. First amendment, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputy Minister still. The proposed first amendment is therefore submitted for the reason that CRP is not a beneficiary of the state budget, nor is it the owner of the property managed under the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore does not make the revenues sufficient for the settlement of the laws of the Republic of Croatia's Government to be settled as well as the obligations made on the basis of decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed provision therefore provides for the means for the settlement of the work to be undertaken. In fact, such a solution also existed in the previous Laws on the implementation of the state budget. It was an idea and a desire to change this Law on Management and Property, but since it was not implemented, we were forced to return such a provision to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119629	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119630	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. If the Croatian Roads Financial Amendment is not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and could not be considered, then this amendment to the Government has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because Article 196(3) says "If the final draft of the law changes and supplements the amendments can only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments." Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget are amended in Article 4. which speaks exclusively of the financing of projects co-financed by EU funds with the consent of the Ministry of Finance. So that's what Article 4. The law on the implementation of the state budget. And that article has changed a little methodologically, etc. But what does the government propose now? The government proposes that this Article 4i be added to Article 1 of these amendments, which speaks of the resources of European funds, to a completely new article that regulates absolutely one other matter, a completely different matter. So normally looking totally unacceptable, but we're going in a row. What privatisation in the Republic of Croatia will happen in the last three months, which? Is the proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the Republic of Croatia's revenue from the state budget with the basis of privatisation funds reduced by 760 and some more million, with the reason that certain privatisation processes that the Government planned did not occur. So that's one thing, who's a corpus delict. So the government wrote something, the government cut something down, and the government said something, and now the government is saying something else. However, colleagues and colleagues before the disbanding of the former assembly, a law has been passed that speaks of the government's conduct from the moment of the parliament's disbandment to the appointment of a new government and that government can only carry out technical matters, cannot neither sell nor create obligations to the future government. So if we said in the budget rebalancing that certain privatisation processes would not happen and that we are therefore planning 760 million less in the state budget, what privatisation is going to happen at the moment when this high house does not ambush, which? Does the government have a right to that? There isn't. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues said the Deputy Minister that CRP is not an integral part of the budget, is not an integral part of the budget but is an integral part of the consolidated general government balance when we talk about the deficit and everything together. The CRP as established and as defined by the law can be financed exclusively from the state budget and at the position of the Ministry of Economy, funds must be provided because it is a body established by the Ministry of Economy with clear objectives to manage state assets, etc. but he's not the owner of that state property. And are you aware of your colleagues and colleagues what is proposed with this amendment? Neither does the Assembly transfer powers to the CRP so that it can dispose of state property. So they'll get everything they sell and stay on their jury account. But look, we just voted on the financial plan of the CRP. In the financial plan of the CRP, you do not have these provisions required by this amendment to the State Budget Implementation Act. Then the question arises, and why is this amendment brought forward? Does this mean that the financial plan of the CRP will be a violation? Watch the finances have their own legality, you must know exactly where they're going and where they're supposed to end up. We have now voted something and from what we have voted it is evident that the money from the sale in a totally non-transparent way will not end up in the state budget in an even more non-transparent way will come to the CERP and someone will still spend it there in a more super non-transparent way. So it's all said that nothing will happen in privatisation, but this amendment's government is tearing down the proposal for its budget, the government is tearing down the budget of the Ministry of Economy and the government is tearing down the financial plan that you so earnestly voted for by the CERP. Because that is how it is then, in the light of the CERRP Financial Plan, it should have been said that since some processes will end and that they will not be able to make any decisions, therefore, in the financial plan in the Croatian Parliament, they will offer an opportunity to vote that the CERP has more resources. But it didn't happen. So much transparency, so much for public finances and so much for the order they're talking about. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a terrible mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119631	Thank you, too. Are there any interested in discussing other club representatives? I don't think so. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 80 votes in favour, no abstentions and 36 against Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119632	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment number 2 is subsequently related to the amendment relating to the budget itself. It refers to aid paid from the state budget of units of local and regional self-government in accordance with Article 35. Therefore, these aids were paid in 2015 in the form of aid from the Ministry of Finance class but at the level of the return on income tax per year’s application and bonds in their area in the year preceding the year of budgeting. So when I was planning the base, that's what I was going to say in 2013. Since we are familiar with the implementation of 2014 of the amendment to those units, we are given the opportunity to help with the actual return of income tax in 2015 on the basis of 2014 and in order to be able to... their specific legislation of the prescribed function. So it's about a series of municipalities, all of which are listed to someone 5, someone 10, someone 20 percent of the budget, but in any case it allows them to function easier by the end of the year and therefore in the law of execution, and that first amendment is a little better, and that first amendment is necessary and necessary to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119633	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister. The worst part is when the Government with these amendments changes completely what it has proposed. So I repeat, the government did not listen to warnings that the chaos of the local self-government unit in the area of special state care with the basis of income tax returns, so this was spoken. And everyone who deals with this business knows exactly what the amount of funds that's going to happen. And now look, it's not that the government suddenly became aware that it wasn't enough, but if you read the provision that was in the original and what they're proposing here, then you'll see that it's the diametric opposite of each other because you can correct it for two or three words, but it's important that the meaning of what you wanted to achieve this article is clear. However, see the original article, says according to a special law, they were not entitled to an increased personal deduction, the difference to the amount of the actual return on income tax will be paid in 2015. Now this complete article is changing and says, following an annual application for the year preceding the year of budgeting, the difference will be paid to the amount of the actual income tax in 2015. So here it's said that they were wrong, and here it's told to everyone. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, now the only return on income tax can be made according to applications from 2014, cannot be made according to anything. Therefore, the return on income tax is defined by the General Tax Law and income tax and to say that the return on income tax for the year preceding the budget is simply ridiculous and I think that such a finding and such a thing as the Ministry of Finance should not stand. And that this debate of mys regarding this amendment will come to me and I will end it on the third amendment. So this is now a definitive confirmation that the government has committed a massacre on the finances of local self-government units. By all accounts, over two billion kunas have been taken, and there's something that wants to be patched up. However, colleagues and colleagues, given their employment, in view of the level of salary paid by the local self-government unit with this manner and the Law on the financing of local self-government units in the area of special state care for the next 7,8 years will not be able to repay tax income. And it would be five times simpler, painless, and easier, given that I'm just telling you the technique, so income tax is paid into one aggregate passing account, and that's where we're going from here to where we're supposed to go. And from that summary and passing account, practically what goes towards the treasure was reduced and the income tax returned. Now it's not done, it's done with the part that goes towards the units of local self-government. And the only provision that stood between 2004 and 2011 in the law on the implementation of the state budget for the state to return income tax instead of local self-government units is something that is fair and correct. But this is something that doesn't solve, and moreover, the tax administration didn't make 90% of the income tax returns by 9 months. So many units have not made a return to income tax and there is no telling how much more it will be. So, unfortunately, another amendment the government wants to cover up. And when you look at that only these changes and the additions of the budget, it's going to go to 67 or 68 units of local self-government, actually with this amendment, and that in the changes and additions to the budget, it's another 70 units of local self-government, then we took the right to, in fact, those who voted for such a law and for such a budget proposal to put one large part of our citizens in one difficult situation so that their units of local self-government couldn't fulfil their obligations. But I say once more face and look how it started, that's how it ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119635	Thank you very much. Any interested in the debate yet? I don't think so. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour, no abstentions and 30 votes against Amendment 2. The governments of the Republic of Croatia became an integral part of the final bill. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour and 1 vote in abstention, 29 votes against Law P.Z. No. 908 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119636	And we'll discuss 12 more. Proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of transactions, functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2016: 1.1. Proposals for a decision on granting consent to temporary financial plans of non-profit users for the first quarter of 2016: (a) Croatian Waters (b) Croatian Roads c) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation d) Croatian Institute for Health Insurance e) Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund f) The Centre for Restructuring and Sale is the Proposer of Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This decision will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic will explain the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119637	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Reading the media announcements from the constituencies, as the Parliament decides on when and how it will end with this mandate. We, the motionary and I, as her representative here, estimated about a month ago that instead of a new draft budget for next year, and you know that it was also one of the variants we choose to still decide on a decision on temporary financing knowing and seeing that elections will be this year, that things will be the way they are now, and you yourself said to Madam Vice President, that with twenty-five things are ending. So probably no later than 25.11., and we have therefore estimated that a better and better-quality solution is that the existing government, the first Government of Zoran Milanovic, proposes a decision on temporary financing, and then the citizens decide who they will trust, that the new government has a cleaner account for next year. And to get off that political sphere, so all I'm saying is in line with Article 42. The Budget Act, in order to continue to finance the operations, functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State budget during the period of temporary financing, and in the amount necessary for their implementation and enforcement, as well as the rights of the recipient of the budget referred to in the laws and other regulations. After the expiry of the period of that temporary funding, therefore, in the adoption of the budget, all revenue and receipts shall, of course, be included in the newly adopted budget for 2016 to be adopted in this House. What we used to put these figures in this document is, the basic basis is, of course, a macroeconomic projection where we expect the continuation of economic growth that is behind us in the last three quarters to the rate that is estimated. Therefore, further recovery of economic activity was assessed primarily from the growth of domestic demand through a positive contribution to household consumption, and gross investment in fixed capital. Our macro economists have estimated that the small contribution is growth, statistically small comes from net foreign demand, and under the influence of positive economic movements in our international environment with our partners. We expect further stability, so we expect stable and low inflation, i.e. practical status quo with regard to inflation for the next period. When I talk about the revenues, what we suggest is that for the provisional implementation of the budget, revenue is estimated at 26.6 billion kuna. As I said due to the fundamental trends in basic macroeconomic indicators, due to the year-round impact of tax regulations that entered during 2015, the primary excise duty on energy and excise duties on tobacco products is slightly higher than the first three months of last year, but it is true at 25% of the annual projection of the existing budget. So before this one was brought in. Therefore, I expect that such revenues, and I dare say relatively conservative estimates, will come true. Given the relatively small number of you, I'm not going to further describe what's going on. A significant increase, the biggest increase is you've seen this in aid revenue figures, there are indices biggest. We expect this strengthening of the EU withdrawal dynamics primarily for agriculture, primarily for regional development and on this side, the revenues of the state budget will be as issued as I said in the first three months of last year. As regards expenditure, the law says that... the financing for the following year is carried out in proportion to the expenditure incurred in the first three months of the previous year, and up to one quarter of total expenditure incurred without expenditure in 2014 in the previous year. New activities and projects for funding sources, general revenues and receipts, contributions and dedicated receipts cannot be opened but those covered by the State budget for 2015. Something more concrete about numbers, so employee expenditures are planned at the necessary amount and we believe they will enable, we do not believe, but we are sure that we will have a regular salary payment in the first quarter and in a somewhat shorter period for next year. Material expenditures are planned exclusively for the necessary and smooth functioning of the users of the state budget. Subsidy, and that's now that contradiction is also using something more significant. ... and rural development, therefore from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is more significant is the contribution of the EU budget, 1.6 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Additional funds... 439 and 600 million kuna transfers of HZZO appropriations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Payment of course pensions, remuneration to employees, social assistance, child support, maternity benefits all these figures you have in the materials. The total and final projected deficit of the state budget for the first quarter of next year until the budget is adopted would be 4.9 billion kuna or, more precisely, 4 billion 863 million kuna. There's so much, I wouldn't be too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119638	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119639	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. I will not say much about this part of the decision on temporary financing of the state budget because it is practically defined by all the Budget Law and there is basically nothing to be added. I sincerely hope it's only where, but although it's hard to believe that someone would just take advantage of all three months so there's a problem, but it's final confirmation that the elections are close and that our session is coming to an end. However, I have something I simply have to talk about because I can't get over it. I can't get past the fact that someone's humiliating this High House. And that's again the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. That gentleman should be told that they're not some kind of bank pig or anything but simply have expenses and there's no way that they're gonna happen to have the same income and expenses. No way! And what they're doing to us with their financial plans turns out to be funny. And they really think that anyone who comes here will think about bringing them back to the Treasury to discipline them. Because this was given to be spent as anyone wants. Because you have a bunch of projects going on right now. I've been trying to find them in some kind of financial plan, something I don't understand how it's financed from? Because if all budget users have to specify projects, programmes, how much will it cost, then it must also be in the Ministry of Health. 'Cause look, you can't happen to hear on TV what I know hospitals do like that without the money being in there. Who's funding it? So they served us again according to their usual financial plan and decision on temporary financing. Look, the total revenue of 5 billion, and at the same time we concluded that in this rebalanced budget, there was just one amount in the decision, and the second was in the consolidated balance sheet of extra-financial funds. And what I'd like to ask is, I really don't understand, maybe I've mixed up some concepts here, which is this billion and 600 million in DAB. So you have an execution in 2014 and you have a plan for 2015. Now, has there been a certain printing error? I don't get it, do I? And then you have a plan from 1, that's a special part, from 1 to 3.2016, which is more than 6800 times. Does that amount have to happen? Look, you have the amount of 174 million and then the plan for 2015. 23 million and then a plan from 1 to 3.2016 billion and 600 million. So it's something that I really don't understand what's going on with that? The more you repeat it. So I looked at the decision to give consent to the temporary funding and to make total revenues of 252 million and total expenditures of a billion and 600 million. If it's a deposit transfer and then it can't be an expense. And then... the out-of- budget user shall apply to them a decision on temporary financing in the same way as it does to other budgetary users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it's solved in a different way, but not like this. Look, I mean, I'm saying these are all well-intentioned debates, there's more or less everyone who knows about finance to say so, and therefore there's no need to act now. This is well-intentioned. Because a decision like this can't go away because it's contrary to legal regulations. So when you look here, so you have a deposit insurance fund, you have one amount, and that's all right, and then you have business expenses, and now you look at the sayings, civil and household fees based on insurance and other fees, and there's now 1 billion and 600 million. What citizen's fee? As far as I know, no Croatian bank is in trouble. The more we had 900 million difference between income and expenditure at the end of last year, the more I was told that 400 million of bonds are being purchased even though I don't know who and whose but never mind be, and now I'm not clear on this temporary funding plan of this 1 billion and 600 million, where is this going? And look, then, at the decision on temporary funding, so on granting consent and on the temporary financing of the state agency, and so we give them the right, I speak as it says, so I read as it says, we give them a deficit of up to 1 billion and 350 million in rights for three months. Based on what? 'Cause if it happens, God forbid with a bank, if there's an insurance savings payment, then it's settled in a different way, but it can't be solved in this way. What's the question? What's the money? Because when you look at the proposals of the interim financial plan, then you will see that you have the net funding, so you have from the previous two years and then you have a plan for the 2016 transfer of deposits from the next year 1 billion 354 million kuna and that is exactly that deficit. So someone's been playing around with the financial plan. You'd do well to consult until the vote if some things were to change. But I'm saying this is a technical decision and we need to back it up, but we should certainly warn the gentlemen of HZZO and see what's going on with DAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119640	My colleagues Milorad Pupovac and Krešimir Bubalo are not present. Their clubs are losing the right to argue on this wheel. And finally Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119641	Thank you very much. I'll be back soon. The consultations are already under way. I have to check it out. Now I've seen Mr. Rajic, and I find it illogical. He tells me that there have been discussions and that in the leadership of today's DAB, and you know that it goes towards moving away from the state story, he said like this, and here's my knowledge, and I'm admitting that this speaker is insufficient. We'll check it out. What's important is that it's not contrary to the state budget, to any legal regulations, and then we'll see. As I whispered to you, it's a kind of reservation so something could happen and it doesn't pay off. Obviously, there were some arguments, but we'll see from that side. As for HZZO, the document that came from HZZO, the Ministry of Health, is also applied to the Ministry of Finance. What we could have done was transfer it to you on some common denominator here. If going out was the happiest solution, maybe this is one of the arguments that it isn't, there are some arguments why it is, but since this isn't the topic of this debate now we'll see. You wouldn't spread it any further. But in any case, reducing the level of transparency isn't something that's good, and in that part, I agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119642	I'm closing the debate. ... The replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119643	As long as I am, I will have the opportunity to speak in this Assembly I will ask HZZO to make a financial plan according to all the elementary financial principles. Is this embarrassing, they argue with the 21 billion they explain on the page and a half. The second thing, about this DAB, they can make but the decision can be that we make them decide to create a minus 1 billion and 300 million. So that's what this is about. Are they... making decisions, the other is the part where they factor it out. You can see the deposit from previous years, etc. But this is about income decisions, expenditures, and less than 1 billion 354 million. So that's what's so controversial that simply this home can't afford such luxury that it gives someone that they can achieve a minus 1 billion 354 million. So let's just change the decision. This balance sheet can stay the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119644	There's no answer. Then I'm closing the argument now. We will also vote on the motion for a decision on Friday. That's what we've exhausted today's agenda. I announce a session as I said on Monday 21st of September at 14:00 with a joint discussion of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act with the final draft of the law, one proposed by the Government and another by our colleague, Josip Kregar. I'll see you Monday at 2:00. Goodbye. Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119645	Proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of the functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2016. The debate on the text is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 199 of that Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 28 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic's government representative to introduce us into the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119646	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment proposes a distribution of 500 thousand kuna within the Ministry of Culture's financial plan. In fact, we propose an increase in support in the publishing house of Edith of 500 thousand kuna and a reduction in the project of building, maintaining and equipping the institution of culture. In fact, through the temporary financing of the promiscuity, the error occurs in thousands of items, colleagues at the Ministry of Culture and we at the Ministry of Finance simply did not notice that there was 0 left in that item and it was a permanent item about 2 million kunas for Edith publishing house. You all know what it's all about, so here's the bravest thing we admit is because thousands of items have happened to us and so we're going back to what's a quarter of the realisation this year and that's 500 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119647	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119648	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you didn't notice this, but it was noticed on another side, and then a colleague is suggested what needs to be done to make this right. You've forgotten about one publishing house,... A publishing house, which neatly, is the publishing house of a national minority, which is neatly all governments, in all recent years, have never skipped out on a temporary funding plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, speaking of a temporary funding plan, it is not clear to me that you did not notice, I told the Deputy Minister of Science yesterday that one position was well planned and contrary to the Law on Temporary Financing, which is the famous technology centre of the Western Balkans, or as it is already called where its funds have been reduced from 307 to 58 000, and then in the proposal for a Decision on Temporary Financing, he was returned 307 thousand kuna. So you could cut those 307,000 kunas to the legal level and put this amount here and not take someone else's capital aid. So we're like a club in one doubt. We support that these funds are given to those who belong to them because it belongs to them under the law. And on the other hand, we are in one moral doubt whether to support your sloppyness and ignorance. So we haven't decided whether or not we're going to be held back. Thank you very much, but I say again they look alike. Once again about order and mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119649	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the other clubs want? Yeah. Dear Representative Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minorities Club or the IDS Club? The IDS club? You didn't consult. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119650	And I consulted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119651	No, no, it's a club debate, it's a club debate, so I need to know what club it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119652	I consulted, and I made a decision to speak on behalf of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119653	I respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119654	Of course, it is a mistake, a mistake, but I thank the Ministry of Finance and the SDP Club for reacting immediately when they saw it was a mistake. Because who better than the National Minorities knows that the small publishing houses that issue the daily list, don't forget that, the daily list and it's just one National Minority Edith have even more, much more problems than the big houses that issue the daily newspaper. Publishing daily newspapers for potential, for a small number of potential users of course requires great demands of great, great effort. But on the other hand, we should be proud to have the publishing house of a national minority who manages to publish a daily paper, at this point of 40 pages. Thank you for coming to meet us and, as you say, I recommend in advance. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119655	Thank you very much. This didn't work out. I'll do it again. The Club of National Minorities is recommended in advance. Does anyone else want to take part in the debate? I am concluding the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and 7 against, have been accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and become an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting the motion for a decision, actually. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstentions and 31 votes against, a decision on temporary financing of business, functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia was taken in the first quarter of 2016, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the adopted amendment. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, no abstentions and 29 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for the first quarter of 2016. 2, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 29 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for the first quarter of 2016 was taken in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 3. I am voting in favour of the Interim Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for the first quarter of 2016. ... Go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119656	So in my debate, I stated that this financial plan is contrary to the Interim Finance Act. He's several times bigger than the annual plan, so there's a billion and 600 million kuna planned. For this financial plan, I warn my colleagues and colleagues that this is the financial plan. [[President: That's what we heard from my colleague Shucker.]] Contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. [[President: That's what we heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-18-0.u119657	Thank you very much. Please, I am voting, I have already told the Decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 31 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for the first quarter of 2016 was taken in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 4, I am voting in favour of the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes for, no abstentions and 33 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for the first quarter of 2016 was taken in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 5, I am voting in favour of the Interim Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes for, no abstentions and 33 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency for the first quarter of 2016 was taken in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 6, I am voting in favour of the Interim Financial Plan of the Restructure and Sales Centre for the first quarter of 2016. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 32 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Interim Financial Plan of the Restructure and Sales Centre for the first quarter of 2016 was taken in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Friday's agreement. We move to the agenda, it is on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.891. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Would the Prime Minister's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Allen Leveric, deputy economy minister. Here you go, deputy.
