ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118237	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Although I am aware that other breaks will likely be for an alarming situation related to refugees, I am looking for a break on behalf of the ORAH Club regarding the situation at the Centre for the Education and Education of Blind and Low-sighted Persons "Vinko Bek".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118238	Okay, it's written down. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118239	Dear Mr. President, only up to 8 hours in Croatia have entered 5,650 migrants or refugees, today we expect 2,000 more in the next few days that figure will cross 15 maybe 20,000. It would be ideal if the minister would inform us every day if I didn't say it in an hour, but no matter what, I think we should talk about it, so let's hear it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118240	Are you looking for a break from your colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118241	Refugees, migrants, however, a humanitarian disaster that threatens us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118242	Okay, humanitarian situation, okay. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118243	Thank you, Your Honor. Because of the dramatic situation in Eastern Slavonia and Srijem in view of this wave of asylum seekers, refugees therefore because of the same situation, I am looking for a break as far as you decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118244	Yeah. Dear colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118245	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118246	Dear fellow MP Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118247	About the same SDP theme, he's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118248	Dear colleagues. Here you go. A colleague of Vesna Sabolic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118249	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118250	7, esteemed colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118251	Thank you, Mr. President. For the same reason we're asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118252	Please, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118253	Same reasons about the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118254	Dear colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118255	The Honorable President for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118256	Dear colleague Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118257	Your Honor, it's the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118258	Dear colleague Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118259	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118260	Are there any other clubs in the Croatian Parliament? There isn't. To declare that every morning we start an hour early at half past nine, I mean correctly. Yeah, yeah, seriously. We're not gonna give up the bang, the elections are coming in, and then we're gonna have a regular session because we need time. We'll start at half past nine. I have to take a break because the Rules of Procedure predicted it. At 9.45, we continue our work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We begin our presentation on behalf of the clubs, the first respected representative of Mladen Novak, on behalf of the ORAH Club. The theme is Vinko Beck, home. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118262	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues. Although it is, I know that today will be an impactive topic of refugee inflows on our eastern side of the border, I'm going to clear one sentence on that. Just to remind you, when not so long ago we were party president Mirela Holly when she mentioned that there would be problems and that we weren't well prepared to follow the answer that we have no idea what we're talking about, that we're xenophobia. Yesterday, the prime minister's response that we are ready and not expecting a big wave turned out to be that no one wants to stay in Croatia, so we will be a transit. However, no one can even leave the Republic of Croatia because the Schengen has been abolished. But to return to Vinko Bek, three days before the school year began, the director's decision is to move the children primarily to the blind and undersighted children from the centre of Nazorovo to a totally inadequate space in Kuslanovo. I can agree that space may, not just me, not matter my assessment but experts agree that space is questionable quality, that security is questionable. But what is important, for 2 years, experts have been investigating this space, in 2005, this principal came there. Since 2005, according to her, she has warned of security in the area. Now there's a part of the ceiling that's fallen off, there's that reed piled up, but on the 3rd floor, of course, while the protégés are on the lower floors. However, after 2 years of research and 6 months after a report was submitted by experts, a decision was made on the eviction of these people who cannot take care of themselves, these people who cannot react, these people who cannot reach the public. Interestingly in this story, this director sent a request to the Ministry of Rehabilitation of the building or quality care of the protégé, but the documentation is incredibly lost in the ministry. But the ministry also has the data, I just don't know what the reconstruction is, it takes over 19 million, 20 million kuna to reconstruct the building. And the estimate of the building is 14 million kuna. It's quite obvious, quite such a flat rate, but it's, uh, we don't need to be surprised, given that the paperwork's lost, and then probably a memory assessment. Perhaps it is also an interesting letter sent by the director of the centre according to a political option that says there is no knowledge that anyone is interested in buying a building that is in an attractive location. Look, the emphasis is on an attractive location, but it's protected because of its status. Experts from a variety of profiles have always felt it was cheaper to tear down, experts from various profiles. Since, more information, last year this same ministry spent 250,000 kunas rebuilding the courtyard and playgrounds along this building in Nazor. Since it is not paid according to the minister's further investment, it is evident that in the end it is also said that it intends to have a permanent move. Where, when no one knows, the opinion of DUDI, the space sought by DUDI, we all know it could take a while to figure out when. It may not be an uninteresting story that in 2004, we had one such case, that from the current Kukuriku coalition, one of the members of the Kukuriku coalition, was the main actor of the story, the story is called a small house and the space was never ultimately obtained, or more famous as the Ferenčak affair. I ask the question why this is happening at the time of the election, before the elections themselves when it is evident that no one can make a decision and no one can react.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118263	Thank you. This was the first topic and the respected representative Damir Cain on behalf of the club on the subject of the humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118264	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to congratulate the police, the humanitarians, the Red Cross commanders, the doctors, the crisis commanders, and also to say that this problem cannot be handled only by Eastern Slavonia and that we all need to help Eastern Slavonia. I said before that 5650 people entered Croatia by 8 hours, at least 2,000 more people enter today. In two, three, five days, there'll be over 20,000 people here. The situation has already escaped control on the first day. Croatia is clearly saying that it is not ready. The government wasn't aware of what was going to happen to us yesterday. 1.5 million people are on the move in the last 10 days, 175,000 migrants have come to Greece, in Macedonia and Serbia around 10,000 are heading towards Croatia. Our quota of 1064 migrants or refugees during today will be exceeded by 7 times. The borders have closed Germany, Austria. The Austrian prime minister is across the street from President Milanovic at this time. Let's skip Hungary. The borders have closed Greece, Poland, Slovakia and Denmark. Great Britain defends itself on the French side of the tunnel. All this is nothing against the fact that the borders towards Croatia have closed Slovenia as well. I also said yesterday at the current afternoon that we will have to spend no more than one, two or three years in Croatia, 50, 60, 70,000 migrants or refugees from Syria, Pakistan and the cancer of Afghanistan, if we do not take action in the next few days. He's not breathing for 15 or 30 days. I'm talking for the next few days. More than 200, 300,000 people will winter in the Balkans. BiH envisions the entry of more than 30,000 people and accommodation on its territory, Macedonia, 200 000. Let's let Macedonia record thousands of people returning to Albania, Bosnia, Sandzak, Kosovo, who fought for ISIL. It will not be 30 days and Croatia will follow Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia and Croatia will close the border. I don't know, maybe some don't dare say it, but that's gonna happen. Croatia showed good will on the first day. We at the reception centers have 1800 seats. Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, blocked Croatia. Croatia cannot be transformed into a large European asylum, as Croatia is asked by the European Union. The fact that Germany, Austria, Slovenia stopped the entry of migrants does not mean that they are non-democratic countries. This must, calling on the same thing, in a way do Croatia and immediately inform Vukic, Dacic, Vulin, I don't know who, that until the decision of the European Police Ministers... we simply can't act or act like it anymore. While Slovenia, Hungary, Austria, Germany does not provide corridors through its territory, I am afraid Croatia will not be able to accept tens of thousands of those unfortunate people who need help. What did they send us as a message from sources in Brussels? They are announcing Croatia that they could open a corridor so refugees can go further to other EU countries because Croatia is not the target destination to tell them that such treatment of Croatia would mean a violation of the European laws and obligations of the Member States. That's what the gentlemen of Brussels told us. Unfortunately, we're reacting late. It's about the economic stability of the nation. Croatia can provide 10 and 15 thousand people, but above that there will be a problem for gentlemen, and besides that, Germany in Albania, Serbia, Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia returns 100,000 asylum seekers and at least 300,000 people who are in Germany without documents. The maximum civilised treatment of migrants, but Croatia must at this time be treated simply I will say as a state and inform Vucic, Dacic, Vulin that the European Police Ministers' decision cannot be accepted Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118265	Thank you very much. We're continuing on the same subject at the club's request. It is up to the respected representative Boro Grubisic, the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118266	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Let us remember about a month and a half ago when we were on vacation, so the warm greeting of the Prime Minister of Germany, the pardoned Chancellor of Hertzliche, will come after a month and a half to close the borders. She said welcome to Germany, and now we have a closed border and refugee returns to what counterpart Cain said, both in Bosnia and Albania and in other countries. It seems similar to that of the Croatian Government, the same thing, the content is approximately the same. Hertzliche will come, but what are we waiting for? Here we know about the quotas set by the European Union for Croatia for the reception of asylum seekers. So 500 and then 1064 and then 1800, so how long will the Croatian Government increase that quota that belongs to Croatia. Despite these quotas, which were set and which were Croatia and the media and all others warmly welcomed in the light of the humanism that Croatia has expressed and demonstrated, and which has always been at work, mostly with us in Slavonia when we accepted refugees, exiles from Bosnia, when we were beaten by floods and droughts and war to the most extent in Slavonia, which was the most severe, we both know about Vukovar both for cells and for Voćin and for everything else. After all these troubles, there are 6-7 thousand asylum seekers in eastern Croatia. In the middle of the factory, a refugee village. A tent settlement is built between Vinkovac and Rokovac. Perhaps I should better introduce you to the situation in the east of Croatia and a series of others. The container village in Gunja has been evicted. It has been evicted even though their homes are not finished, it has been evicted for the purpose of receiving asylum seekers. How much of this does Croatia need to show Europe and prove that it is human? Are Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary inhumane? You tell the government, Mr. Orban and the others they're inhumans, and they don't say anything. Austria closed the borders, Germany closed, Slovenia closed the borders. Are they inhuman, inhuman, and nothing? Then tell those people openly, to that Europe that you are like this, and we are like this. And what are the consequences of it all I wouldn't want to dream about here, let alone speak from the economic situation of Croatia in which it is. We're like drunk rich people. Vucic, the prime minister of Serbia, so far speaking, will be directed to Croatia, let everyone go to Croatia, almost farts. Why asylum seekers when they arrive and Croatia warmly receives them at the border crossings in Tovarnik stop by 500m bus outside the border crossing and flee through the corn, and we have reception centers, we offer them medical, human, any other help. And then why do they stand 500 meters in front of the Factory and run through the corn to the Prince, towards Ilock, to ask God where he doesn't go. And then our police, so neatly spending both human strength and material resources on corn, grabs them in vans and brings some in, and some don't. This 5650 number is just registered. How unregistered. I went to work in the Croatian Parliament on Wednesday morning at 6am I saw an asylum man walking along the road with a stop track walking to Novska even before this wave. He didn't hitchhike, he might have tied him up, but he didn't ask for any help. So this problem is much more serious than the Croatian government wants to present to us. And I agree with my colleague Cain that this problem must be resolved differently regardless of the orders of some of Brussels in secret or public. Here is the Austrian Chancellor here today, etc. We, Croatia, must understand what can happen to both the Croatian economy and all others, so the situations in which Croatia can be found. Are we going to have... Are we going to have refugee camps here like some in Syria, Lebanon, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what it all means for Croatia, and here's how someone said winter goes, they said yesterday, so it's going to be a smaller number. That's not true. The Mediterranean is not such a climate condition that someone would reduce because I don't know any mild winter arrival of immigrants, or asylum seekers here. And in the end...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118267	Thank you very much. Time's up. Honored representative Gordan Jandrokovic on behalf of the HDZ club, the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118268	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, unfortunately, the situation is getting more serious from hour to hour, and it's getting more complicated and less under control. And we have to be objective and say, unfortunately, we're going towards confusion and chaos. Yesterday, the interior minister said he was surprised by the number of people coming. It is truly incomprehensible after weeks, the months of this refugee crisis have been announced by someone responsible in the Croatian government for this portfolio. So within ten hours, the government realizes that she was running a completely wrong policy, that she was completely unprepared. We have been warning for weeks about what will happen and wanted me to admit it or not, obviously, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not have a plan or plan to resolve this difficult issue. Yesterday during the current morning, the Prime Minister assured us that we were ready during the evening. It was already visible from the input of people, journalists who are very fond of these people, refugees who come that things are no longer under control. Foreign Minister Pusic said yesterday that we can take care of thousands, but we can't take tens of thousands. Well, it's not exactly two thousand and nine thousand people. Cerer, the Slovenian prime minister, speaks in numbers about how much they will receive and then close the border afterwards. So he's talking about 800 if I'm not wrong about 60 or 70 and some people, in number. And we hit on thousands like it doesn't matter. Yesterday, the Prime Minister here told us about transit and corridor. We have been getting signals from the European Commission this afternoon that it cannot be a corridor. Minister Ostojic says he spoke to a Slovenian counterpart about the corridor. She's denying it that afternoon, she says we didn't talk about it because it doesn't comply with European rules. So, we're being deceived. I don't see why it's happening. Will he thus justify his own incompetence? This is too serious a question. This isn't a joke, this is something they'll feel for decades. This isn't a matter of politics, this isn't a one-time question. This is a question that concerns our lives, our children's lives. I don't know if it's possible that someone in Croatia doesn't understand. Slovenia closes the border, Hungary builds walls, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland. I agree with my colleague Grubisic. Is someone going to tell Cerer that he's inhumane because he says in the figure what number of refugees he's going to receive? Well, it's not a question of inhumanity. It is a matter of stability and security of its own state, the well-being of its own citizens. We can't be human if we haven't secured stability and security. Well, we can't be human if there's chaos and confusion, and that's what's happening to us. We're asking the government to tell us what the plan is, what we're going to do, how many people we're going to receive. Are we going to receive everyone who comes? Will we accept and comply with the quota already multiple that number exceeded the quota that was planned? What happens to those people who won't have a place to sleep because we don't have enough accommodation capacity? We're waiting for someone from the government to say what's going to happen, what's going to be done. He doesn't have to come here to Parliament. Let him speak publicly, let him tell citizens who are rightly concerned. Well, we're ready to support quality, smart decisions, and we showed that about the arbitration agreement with Slovenia. But we have nothing to support here. Well, we can't support the chaos that's happening to us. Some fellow journalists speak, and some stress the issue of security and stability, this is a humanitarian issue. Well, we agree, so I'm sure there's no one here who's not human, who doesn't understand these people's suffering and despair, and we're willing to help them. But how can we help them if we don't have a way to help them, if we don't have a place to put them, if we don't know how many of them we're gonna take? Well, that's not a demagogue, that's not a pre-election question, that's a question that I've already said once goes beyond day politics. So we need to find enough strength to support each other and find a sustainable solution for Croatia. Once again, what is the number of people, what is the maximum number that can enter Croatia? What happens when that number is reached, will we close the border and then look at the same pictures as we look at in Hungary? We talked about it for weeks. The prime minister and his associates shook their hands. And now we have what we have. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is really not serious, this is not the way a state and a government thinks about national interests behaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118269	Thank you very much. We're continuing on the same subject. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118270	Dear colleagues and colleagues are just as responsible as the government and the regulated state, and this is that the Government and all institutions of the Croatian state are acting according to the laws passed by this Assembly and all institutions are doing their job accordingly. Yesterday, the Croatian state and its citizens showed all their humanity, warmth and care for people who flee by saving their own lives. They're not asylum seekers and they're not migrants. They're refugees who run from the war. We've been through the same Calvary, unfortunately, and our people have been refugees somewhere else. The fact is also that in 24 hours, and now we're talking about 24 hours since yesterday morning, we've shown that we're ready to organize and accept and know the way we're going to accept these people. And we act according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia; we have brought them. And that's what the government does, and that's what all the resolution ministries do. So I don't think the situation is as dramatic as it wants to be shown, but the fact that it's extremely serious is. And I agree with all of us who warn that it can get out of control but is the solution for Croatia to close the border? Is that a solution? Is that the solution we're talking about today? We showed yesterday that first of all we are people in Croatia, and I believe that today and tomorrow and the day after and without any problem that information will be given to us in the Croatian Parliament every time we need what is done, what is the plan, in which way and in which direction it all goes together. Even these meetings today were held in order to solve the problem that is happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118271	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118272	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I am looking at the fact that this is pre-election time, I cannot take away the need to comment on something that is often repeated, not only in the assembly this morning but in general, the question of the Croatian Government's willingness without the ambition to be their exclusive lawyer because I am not exactly of that kind, I will try to be objective. We can talk about the readiness of the European Brussels government for situations like this. We can tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen, about how realistic and truly correct the European political system is to respond to such situations, or the truth is to be told, is to gather the particular interests of the Member States that, when they choked, act and then leave those weakest, those on the margins to deal with the burden of the problem. And they finely, as counterpart Boro Grubisic said, I do not read German, but after welcome, the border is closed and a message is sent to Croatia not to consider any follow-up of refugees, contrary to announcements. What should we do now in this situation? Close the borders and lose face, lose our chance to stay human, lose our chance to return to self-respect as people and nations? What should we let mothers who have a baby give birth at a border crossing or somewhere in the corn? Or should old people with serious health problems let them die in corn? Or maybe we should discuss quotas? You know, in my profession there's talk quotas, you just talk about quotas when it comes to tiny blue fish, when it comes to tuna, but about quotas when it comes to people talking is a matter of bad taste. And I'm surprised at all as a representative in the Parliament of a democratic country that we're talking about people as if they're heads of blue-tailed tuna. What Croatian policy is required to do is to show character this time and ask ladies and gentlemen in Brussels what they think and how they feel about this crisis? So ask me, is it a greater sin that Hungary has lifted the wall from sin that Croatia defends its savings from Austrian and other foreign banks? Or is that a question of higher political interests? And you shouldn't be able not to scratch behind your ear. It's very interesting now to throw this situation as some kind of stigma and guilt at the current government and the current prime minister. Wouldn't it be interesting if channels through the European People's Party had asked Mrs. Angela Merkel how she hastily changed her attitude? Is that why you have ladies and gentlemen of character? To ask Mrs. Merkel how she changed her attitude and left poor Croatia in a deleted space, which is oozing in her own problems but will not lose face. Do we remember the tents in El Shatt where the Splits, Trogirns, Sibeniks, Vishans and all others were born and we remember our columns of refugees who also left their homes because of irresponsible world policy. Because the world could have prevented a war in Southeast Europe, it didn't stop it. And the world and the world's policy in which we have our share of responsibility has provoked what's going on in North Africa. We're telling the truth in this Croatian Parliament. And that's why we don't talk to people as numbers, but be prepared to stay human, preserve our own conscience and dignity of a Christian, honest people who are willing to be solid in giving up because we're part of the world's policy of the same cause that provoked what's going on in North Africa. They didn't kill each other. Until recently, everything was in the best order, they were even good partners in the economy, but because of one's interests and Croatia as a political butler, I will say it openly in this home, as a political butler found himself in a position to have what is happening today on his conscience. And that's why we have no right to leave people to die in corn, mothers to give birth in corn, nor do we have the right to starve children on our border. We have a chance to preserve our conscience and have a chance to preserve the dignity of the Croatian nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118273	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the club the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think that the cold heads need to establish several facts, first of all that the EU does not know how to answer the problem at EU borders, that here is the most powerful EU country, and in this context, the refugee crisis in Germany does not have the right answer. Here we saw yesterday that Chancellor Merkel had a few hours of conversation with representatives or the prime minister of the federal states. Not a simple meeting and a task, and that, as counterpart Baranovic said, turns anyway in his politics. What's the fact that quota needs to be determined doesn't actually exist, quotas are dead, the wave continues. Here's a prominent military analyst Mr. Dabak this morning found that Croatia can expect, in a relatively short time, maybe a refugee or a migrant wave, whatever you want from about 100,000 people. And that is the fact Croatia needs to face. And here is the EU, or the European Commission, nicely texted us today and yesterday that the Republic of Croatia must not miss migrants in other countries, that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to quote everyone who enters its borders and that by opening the corridor, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would violate EU laws and rules. We got that as a message from the other Member States. At this point, we too must stand as a sovereign member, equally a legal, equally powerful member of the EU in the protection of national interests but certainly also taking care of hundreds of thousands of people who flee. But colleagues and colleagues don't all run away from the war. I think yesterday, I heard on one television a young man who clearly, and not, there were so many, who say he's coming from Pakistan, that he's coming to get better alive, to get a job somewhere, come between them and from many other countries and Afghanistan, etc. Croatia, and this is a fact which is again proudly highlighted and has a rich experience, we are in the midst of the most severe war in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina there on 92nd received there without a spare without asking who is which religion, who is called indeed hundreds of thousands of refugees. I personally welcomed as a journalist in Turkey in one day a large convoy that translated across the border from the Republic of Croatia about 15 to 20 thousand refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we set them all up, fed them all, took care of them all. Croatia has remained in debt, and this must be said loudly for the health care of these refugees, which no one else has paid except for the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, there was one great advantage, we understood each other, so we spoke in similar languages and what a great number had been going very quickly to the countries of Western Europe one part and one part was of course then as soon as it could have started and returned. Therefore, this is a serious issue, it must not become pre-election agreement, but it is a very important Croatian political, security and certainly humanitarian issue. The National Security Council was scheduled to meet again yesterday at the latest today and in no way wait tomorrow, there is no reason to wait for Friday. All obligations can be cancelled and I think that the government, which in this situation, of course, is the operating body we hear is the founding and headquarters, must take into account the fact that both Macedonia and Serbia are being said by people, refugees towards our borders. Therefore, here is the conclusion that Croatia must today decide what is the largest number that we can accept, which we can accept, should also be decided by the National Security Council, and the criterion that Croatia as a member of the EU can propose to the European Commission, among other things, is GDP and population. So as a state, we have to stand up for clear criteria because a wave of 100,000 people or God forbid, we can't take it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118275	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic on behalf of the club, the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118276	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Humanist, human consideration and national security are the priorities of the Croatian government and it does so and it does so. Don't panic, it's a serious situation, but the way to approach it is to create panic. We are the first country to respond, on a humanitarian basis and administrative basis, to the problem of refugees, but to both economic migrants and to each other, those who entered Croatia. Croatia registers them, ahead of them, records where they came from, all of Croatia's institutions are involved in the job and it works. And it works much better than it does in other countries, it works much better than in Greece, which is in Schengen, and that's all we've shown is that we're prepared, that we can respond to this unfortunate challenge that has driven people out of their homes, people who have escaped from the war that we feel for because we know very well what and how people are experiencing these moments. And let's not forget, more than 740 thousand refugees have either been or gone through Croatia. Unfortunately, we have these experiences, which is why this sensitivity of understanding and solidarity, but the organization is important and it is now showing itself. The Croatian police, border police, the Red Cross, Caritas, all associations should be commended, and especially Croatian citizens, who have shown by example how they work together with the state in this approach of solidarity, understanding and humanity. The refugee crisis isn't since yesterday. Turkey has almost 2 million refugees, Italy has been meeting with refugees for years. Hundreds of thousands came and still came. Now that Hungary has built a wall when the problem with Macedonia has arisen, then the problem has shown a little more in front of Croatia, but the refugee crisis is not something new. What is important is that we show that we know how to organize it. We didn't transfer those famous quotas, we're ready and we want to accept as much as we need. We expect and believe that this crisis, which is across Europe, which shows the problem of functioning in crisis situations in the EU, will be resolved by the end of the year because no larger waves are expected due to winter, because of nature. And I believe that as we have so far shown as Croatia that we are at a high level of both humanity and humanity of the rule of law, as well as by our engagement in the EU, we will help solve this problem not only for Croatia but also for the whole EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118277	Thank you too, colleague. Honorable representative Juhas Shandor on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118278	Thank you, Mr. President. The sensitivity that, humanity yes, helping to do all this and Croatia has shown this first day that it can. This kind of reminds me of the time of Mr. Ivo Sanader who said there was no crisis in Croatia, the crisis is all around us, Croatia is untouchable. But here's what we've seen happening these last few days. I would remind you of the statement by Orban, quite often quoted here, which is still in the middle or early of the 10th month, saying that when the wall is finished that somewhere around 1/7 migrants will pass through Hungary, and the rest will stay somewhere. Unfortunately, that claim appears and confirms itself. That this migration, as some say, is said by the refugee crisis, and the demographics warned 20 years ago and 30 years ago about the new population migration caused by climate change and the demographic explosion that is happening in Africa. In Africa, we have 50% of the population under the age of 14 who, thanks to climate change, is slowly left without food and who is moving to northern areas where the low birth rate leads to a decline in the population and 20, 30, 40 years ago, has been warned that the population will go where it can simply be fed. Eritrea, Syria and Iran, these are the three countries that because of the war situation, because of the situation that is there, are subject to some refugee status, the others, as I know, are economic migrants. Europe couldn't answer that, I'm talking about, Europe couldn't answer that, and it's hard for Croatia to answer that, we see how certain European countries behave, we see how contradictory statements are, one day we have to register everything, the next day we'll miss them all, so when we miss them all, we close the border very quickly, and all of that population stays in the care of the country they're in. It will most likely be and it is most likely to be prepared and such a scenario for Croatia, there is no corridor, the population will remain here, Croatia will have to take care of them, Croatia will have to show its big heart and Croatia will have to solve the problem itself. Because Greece can no longer be returned, Austria, Germany, etc., will receive only registered ones and we must prepare for a long and difficult winter. It is positive that the Croatian government has quickly realized that the problem is very difficult to deal with. Yesterday there were one statement, today there are some other statements and I think it will be one big exam, one big exam for Croatia. In all of this, the problems were normal and the media that were quite like this, not to say the slemishly reported because while on the cover, the main articles or the most exhibited articles were aimed at saving 100 or 200 people in the Mediterranean Sea, which is extremely commendable. No one was saying that there were 200 thousand refugees in Hungary or 4 to 5 thousand refugees entering Hungary daily. That was a problem then something else. Well, that should also have been reported, and that should have been prepared for the Croatian public in what is waiting for us, and then they would not be surprised that now that the wall is closed and only in certain places or corridors have avoided the population that will happen if it comes in a certain way to say so now, here it may be ugly, or it appears at the border about 1200 or, not 1,000, but, yes, 1,000, 2000 or 3000 people of whom the vast majority, as Mr. Boro says, want to enter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118279	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mile Horvat. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the club. Horvat's registered before, same subject. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118280	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Refugees especially come from other worlds for every country and at all times are not a simple question. And we must approach this issue responsibly, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, as a state taking care of its international obligations and the refugee issue is one of the international obligations of members of the International Community. And the refugee issue is a serious issue for the country itself, given its capacities, its assessments and its interests. And I think it would be very bad if by yesterday, the bishops, politicians, journalists, all said that Croatia would show its human face and then when out of hundreds of thousands of refugees, out of the millions of refugees that exist at this time in certain parts of the world a thousand, two went to our borders and entered our territory we suddenly gave up what we were talking about yesterday and started speaking another language. We can, but that's how we show our face. For months, hundreds of thousands of people from Turkey have been entering Greece, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, and for a time through Hungary continue to go to Europe. When Europe has shown that for political and other reasons it cannot withstand its political system has fallen apart, with a wire on the Hungarian border, with a suspension of Schengen and of course we as a member of the European Union and, as Mrs Kosor said, as a sovereign country within the European Union and in the international community, we need to know what we will do by managing two things. It is first to respect its international obligations as a member of the United Nations and as a European Union which we have obligations towards humanitarian crises. And on the other hand, take care of what we can and cannot do, what is good for us and what is not good for us. That's what the prime minister said yesterday, too. I'm just pulling back and repeating what was said here yesterday during the current clock. And so anyone would say, so would Gordan Jandrokovic that he... in the position of Foreign Minister or Prime Minister, it would certainly be because he spoke in other circumstances and in other times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who today have a thousand refugees or a thousand 500 refugees problem at our borders will only be asked where they were 4, 5 years ago when they were to speak against the war in Libya, Syria and other countries. What was the sense when societies broke down and refugees moved in so many numbers that it took Scriptural proportions? There was no sense back then, but she's not even here when she reacts like this. So we need to be sober and show that we can do what we can, what we can't, we can't. Yesterday, the foreign minister made it clear that we cannot receive tens of thousands of refugees, but we can receive one number. And now to go back to what a number of colleagues and colleagues were talking about, and that's to the European Commission's message from yesterday. Let the European Commission communicate with all countries in the same way with Croatia. Until yesterday Austria was a transit country, until yesterday even France was a country of transit, Germany was a country of transit, Greece has been a country of transit since the first day even though it has tens of thousands of refugees to be fair on its territory. Therefore, Croatia cannot be an exception in this respect, but the European Commission should co-operate with Croatia on how to solve a problem that is not only Croatian and Croatia can solve it itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118281	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I, as chairman, would now have to conclude something, not for you, not for me, but for those who follow us, for the sake of the Croatian public. What can citizens conclude from the debate or the public address of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament on such an important topic as the topic above, I would say Croatian, rather than European and wider, about the crisis of refugees in Europe. I'm not talking about the European Union. I'm talking about Europe. What can I conclude from this? That there is no unity, there is no unique view, so there is no consensus in the Croatian Parliament but different views. Secondly, I can conclude that the problem of refugees for Croatia is a very serious issue and a very serious issue and can conclude that almost all clubs in different ways require coordinated action in Croatia, so the work of institutions and social and state institutions is coordinated, but also in coordination with the European Union, keeping principles and political and humanitarian principles and I agree with that. Thirdly, I would point out that elections and fears are not a good ally for wise political decisions or wise policies, so on the subject of humanity. The fourth thing I would like to say is that we would have to determine when the humanitarian issue grows to another issue for Croatia. When Croatia must react not only for human and humanitarian reasons but also for political reasons. It's a question that hasn't been answered here, especially not unique. And the fifth, ad hoc conclusion, the fifth doesn't panic and there's no need to panic. Both state and social institutions act very responsibly, but that does not mean that there is no limit to their action if the humanitarian problem from the vast quantity of the number of people grows into another problem. So I would just say this seriousness shows that 9 of the 13 clubs in the Croatian Parliament also asked to address the public via a parliamentary pay phone about ad hoc or a topic that is not on the agenda. We used that, and I say right away, I really think it would be correct to start tomorrow at half-nine because I am ahead, I suppose that by the end of the session of the Assembly, the speaker will also want to be used to address the Croatian public outside the established agenda. What, 9:00? The proposal is at 9:00. Nine o'clock, good. At 9:00, we'll start here for this sort of thing. I think that, I'm sorry, I had to do the Rules of Procedure, and I'd say on the subject this way to conclude this debate. And now, in accordance with the established agenda and agreement yesterday, we're going to work on laws that are in order. 4. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 900 and 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899 I read two laws because we agreed to hold a united debate on these two laws, and representatives of clubs in discussions on this law have 20 minutes at their disposal. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received both final drafts of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Both laws discussed, held a discussion of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Proposer want to give an introductory explanation of the proposals? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec. Here you go, fellow Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118809	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have two laws before us today that are already in place to say the long, long years have been burdening most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I will briefly try to explain the situation and what with the two laws that we are uniting here are trying to make. The amendments to the Consumer Credit Act and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act propose a permanent solution that regulates the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into euro loans, i.e. the conversion of loans in kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs into kuna loans with a currency clause into the euro. That conversion from the abovementioned laws applies to the natural persons of consumers and to natural persons carrying out the activities of free professions, craftsmen, individual traders, and to holders of family holdings. According to data from the Croatian National Bank, almost 90% of credit parties, Swiss francs and Swiss francs' housing loans and currency clauses were granted. The above shows that these loans represent a significant form of residential lending in the Republic of Croatia. They were mostly used to finance the population in the front row to finance housing. It is important to stress that credit institutions and other creditors have found sources for such loans primarily in euro by borrowing abroad or on the domestic market, as shown in their financial reports primarily from the currency risk note showing the open foreign exchange position of the credit institution at the end of each period. Namely, at the HNB Bilten No. The 22nd year of August 2011 reads: "At the end of 2010, banks showed a loss from trading derivatives of 3.3 billion kuna, and since these derivatives were too heavy for banks to protect against currency risk should be kept in mind that at the same time a significant profit was achieved from the calculation of these exchange rate differences of 3.5 billion kuna. In most banks, the majority of the amount of derivative financial instruments was concluded with non-residents mostly with majority foreign owners or sister companies of European banking groups belonging to domestic banks. Banks reduce their relatively long spot net open position especially in Swiss francs due to the popularisation of loans in that currency by 2007, and due to the low level of source in that currency." What does this HNB quote tell us? It says exactly that there was no Swiss franc as currency at all in Croatia, that kunas were paid, and that the queens actually placed the euro. It also says that banks, according to Bilten, earned 3.5 billion exchange rates on the basis of exchange rate calculations only during that period. At the same time, they lost 3.3 billion kuna on their derivatives. But it also says that these financial derivatives concluded with their mothers in Austria, Italy, and that they earned 3.3 billion kuna there. So if you have one side to make a loss, they've closed their currency swap with their mothers in those countries. And what's very important is to say what's in the CNB report and that they had a very low level of source in that currency. When we talk about investment protection, we say that here investments by Austrian, Italian and other banks in the Republic of Croatia entered the euro and that their return to their mothers must be in euro. And it's the only investment horizon. Now let's see how many people used, since we know that 90% of all parties were approved during that period, that it was primarily dominant in two years. Imagine the extent to which lending must be to reach 73,000 debtors of whom today still 55800 according to the Croatian National Bank were directly affected by the growth of the principal and the growth of the annuity, i.e. a meal that poses a direct threat from 200 to 300 000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As a result of the significant appreciation of the Swiss franc exchange rate and the increase of interest rates on the Swiss franc, and a significantly lower appreciation of the euro exchange rate and the decline of interest rates on euro equivalent to the euro amount of the remaining principal, which is related to the Swiss franc after 8 years, regular payments are today significantly higher than the initial equivalent in euro amounts to the initially approved principal, which is related to the Swiss franc, which is the same and significantly higher than the market value of the property that is intended to ensure the repayment of the credit. An example. The euro equivalent of the principal and credit granted in the last quarter of 2006, amounting to 100,000 Swiss francs, then the exchange rate moved 4.6 kuna for one Swiss franc. At that time, it was about 63,000 euros. So the citizen took an apartment for 63,000 euros. After 8 years of regular repayments, the unpaid principal on such a loan on today, means with a 25-year deadline of 74000 euros. So the loan is settled for 8 years, and you owe 11,000 euros more than you initially took the principal. This clearly shows that this is simply the form of financial lending, and when we talk about long-term housing loans, loans in which most Croatian citizens are entitled to their home, and also take into account the fact that they are mostly young people, these are young generations that are simply trapped in such credit arrangements and simply can't get out of this relationship for eight years. The problem of loans related to the Swiss franc is not unique to Croatia, it has also appeared in other Central and Southeast European countries, which is why the legislator has reached for a legal solution to the problem where solutions vary from country to country, and there is no unique approach in addressing problems in EU Member States. Legal interventions were decided by Hungary, Poland and countries outside the Eurozone as it is, that is, in the Eurozone outside Europe, Montenegro. Interesting views on some court rulings in the Republic of Austria concerning the approval of loans in Swiss francs in that country or that country also approved one part of a large part of the Swiss francs and they will have problems in 2019 with large budget payments, because they do not now pay one part, but they will also have very big problems in 2019 where 18% of their loans are also related to the Swiss franc. One observation that is, I think it's very important that we hear it here. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Austria in Case 8OB66/12 decided, in the event of a loan with a currency clause in the Swiss franc, to take a position identical to that of the European Court of Justice and to take the pre-contractual and contractual phase as a key consumer information on risks in such a way that it can make an informative decision. The same court thus ordered prosecutors to receive compensation for damages caused by the conclusion of a credit agreement with a Swiss franc currency clause, sanctioning the bank for insufficiently fulfilling its duties, reasons for the risk of such loans. Furthermore, the problem of loans related to Swiss francs with such voluntary currencies which were not recently present on domestic markets appeared even in the 1980s, especially in Australia, where much of that credit was then not only in Swiss francs but in Japanese yen that they approved of their farmers. Australia also made similar legislative solutions because it had to protect a large part of their citizens who had been exposed to currency oscillations of the Swiss franc. In such cases, the legislator has reached out to solutions that address problems by abolishing or converting such protective mechanisms. We know that similar things have happened in Iceland. Accordingly, this law regulates the way in which the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into euro loans, i.e. loans in kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs into kunas with a currency clause in euro in such a way that the position of the consumer with a credit denominated in Swiss francs is equal to that in which he would have used the credit denominated in euro and the position of the consumer is equated with the credit denominated in kunas in the currency clause equal to the position of the credit denominated in kunas with the currency clause in euro. So, the aim of the legislator is here to equalise it as if they took the same loans in 2006, as if they were at the level as if you had taken the euro at the time. This law covers loans in Swiss francs or currency clauses in Swiss francs, regardless of the type and purpose and the period in which the debtor's obligation to repay the credit is fulfilled or has been forced to fulfil. In other words, it shall provide for the conversion of loans that are in regular payments, which have been broken down, which have been sold or otherwise transferred or granted to the other party and which are in the intentional process, loans which have not ceased because they are not fully settled, loans for which enforcement procedures have been initiated. Credits that are fully settled or previously converted to another currency shall be excluded. Right here very clearly, so we tried to capture the majority of Croatian citizens, but we did not, the legal profession said that we cannot simply turn those who have already converted to other currencies or have been paid because these legal transactions have been completed that this part cannot apply to them because then there would be doubts about a certain form of retroactivity. The method of calculating the conversion of the credit, the steps prescribed, or the methods in calculating the conversion process, in such a way that the initially approved principal of the credit is denominated in CHFs and in kunas with the currency clause in Swiss francs, converted into the euro per rate applicable on the day of payment of the credit, in which the level of the principal amount received in kuna is ensured. The exchange rate applied by the believer to similar loans, which could have been... or the average of any credit institution or Croatian National Bank. In order to meet the principle of conversion and to ensure a level playing field for consumers with euro and currency clauses in euro, the initial agreed interest rate in Swiss francs and the currency clause in Swiss francs is replaced by the interest rate in euro and the currency clause in euro. It could be greater than or less than the interest rate in Swiss francs over a period of time. In order to satisfy the principle of conversion and the equal position of consumers with euro credit and the euro currency clause, a new payment plan will be established which would have been found to have been granted and initially in euro and respecting all changes in the conditions over the life of the credit. A further step in the conversion process is to convert the amounts paid into the amounts to be settled, amounts to meals or annuities under the new payment plan. Since the amount of meals or annuities under the new payment plan is different from the meal or annuity according to the initially established payment plan in the Swiss francs and respecting the fact that the consumer would pay for the same and respecting the fact that the burden distribution of conversion is paid in excess of the amount in the euro of meals and annuities is allocated as a subscription. Given that the above-mentioned subscriptions resulted in significant amounts, and as they were collected by... consumers as a result of a valuable and protected mechanism in Swiss francs, and again respecting the fact that the burdens of conversion are distributed, they are recognised to the consumer on behalf of the payment of future meals to be reached and not treated as a reduction in the principal. Furthermore, the restriction on the use of the amount of the subscription for the purpose of settling individual meals, i.e. annuity up to 50%, is introduced in order not to have a significant impact on the cash flow of the creditors. In the case of less paid than the total amount of meals, i.e. annuities in the euro and the currency clauses in euro, the creditor and the consumer shall enter into a special agreement to regulate the way in which the consumer will settle the resulting difference. It may be in the form of one or more lumpy payments or settled from other sources. The calculation of the remaining outstanding principals in euro and kunas with a currency clause in the euro shall be established on 30 September 2015. The unpaid principal has been established in the attached manner to be equated with the unpaid principal that the consumer would have initially taken credit in euro or kunas along the euro currency clause and regularly paid off meals or annuities according to the payment plan, respecting all its changes. The calculation also retains the conditions that the consumer would have achieved if we had a loan in euro and in the euro currency clause. The effect of the conversion is determined by calculation on the day of conversion, which is 30 September 2015, which is the quarterly reporting date and that date was selected for simplicity. The effect of the conversion is the difference between the amount in the credential books and the amount of the unpaid principal established in the previous way. The conversion provides for the allocation of the cost of conversion between creditors and debtors in such a way that each party bears a certain cost in accordance with its own options, while respecting the basic principle that the really paid economic substance of each party is not reduced or not equally increased to the burden of the other party. I will be here for a short time, today there was a meeting of the Government, and yesterday the Minister of Justice on the current morning also announced the resolution of certain problems that you have repeatedly highlighted in the Croatian Parliament the problem of lending cooperatives and their presence on the Croatian market, and through this amendment it is added that the futility of the loan agreement concluded by creditors and credit intermediaries in the Republic who did not have the approval to do so, that the implementation is delayed or all the enforcement procedures until the judicial end of the proceedings are finalised and that, in accordance with the needs of consumers, the possibility of choosing a court to resolve disputes from these issues is defined. Also a very large part of Croatian citizens have found themselves in one of the also unembarkable situations. How did this happen? In 2000, the financial market had a sea of cheap loans, a sea of cheap loans. These loans were placed on the financial market without even checking the debtor's creditworthiness anymore. And that's the biggest grudge. And according to consumer protection directives that even apply to these first loans, it means not only loans approved by certain cooperatives on Croatian territory, but even in the case of the Swiss franc. The creditworthiness of the debtor is one of their basic assessments. And their every 6 months is their duty to assess the creditworthiness of the debtor every 6 months, and that is what consumer protection directives require. This was not done especially by placing such funds on the financial market on our islands where the only and exclusive stocks used the property of these people. And we're simply in a situation where they can't get out of this kind of relationship, especially if they're in some kind of contract there and they're defined as the jurisdiction of certain courts in the Republic of Austria. But here we give citizens the opportunity if they define the integrity of the contract and the jurisdiction of Croatian courts to return everything they have actually received and to actually try one way and their agony which also lasts for a dozen and many years to try to see which way they begin to get rid of. These two laws that are in front of us today, you can observe them from several points of view. You can observe them from the world's point of view. Are you closer to the citizens to solve, try to solve a part of their problems, or are you closer to those that are simply the way the market behaves and that they should not interfere with a number of market relations. It is the freedom of entrepreneurship and the freedom of the market, i.e. the shortcomings that existed in the banking system of all these years and the absence of regulation that led to what had been done in Croatia. We are aware that in other European countries of Iceland, Hungary, Poland, the United States, the United States of America, who punished banks because they were setting up what, they were setting up the basic reference interest rate of libor. They set it up, not that they were setting up any other relationship and they got huge judgments. Huge judgments also include penalties for a banking system that simply in those times the abundance of money in the market has shown greed, immorality and simple carelessness in solving long-term housing problems of citizens. And now the question is whether we want these people to continue to have agony because it's about their housing problems, the right to go home, that they're coming back all their lives and they're never going to get their credit back, or we're going to give them the opportunity to even them out with those who took them in euro and who were actually the basic substance of the entire banking sector in Croatia in euro. Today's indicators if we start with some other methods show that even if you return to the return of apartments, the same situation would happen because now in the banking books you simply have much greater demand values than what the value of the collateral of such an apartment is. .../The speaker speaks English./... and it is also one of the main problems why and when returning the apartment the debtor will still remain in debt. So credit risk, interest risk, currency risk, the risk of an estimate of the value of real estate transferred to the citizen, and the banks that are obliged to manage credit risk by the Law on credit institutions have come all the way to one side and even more of their positions that placed such assets in kunas, and not in Swiss francs are closing derivatives and it is clearly said that there are no sources on that currency but also in that part of a less credit assessment. And we know that there was a big construction boom in 2004, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth years on the Croatian market and that all the apartments were to be filled. Is if we didn't fill out such occupancy, what would be the problem? The problem was that they were also funded apartments to fall on the burden of banks. This is simply a complete operation not only of the Swiss franc, because it's a much wider problem. And where do they happen? They happen in Eastern Europe. Why were these loans not offered in Germany, France, Great Britain and other countries? It means that one part of the population of one part of Europe is affected where, ultimately, the most earnings are withdrawn into their nuts. From 2008, 2009 to 2014 when Croatia looses when we lose more than 150 thousand jobs, and the same bank, based on their dividends, withdraws 10 billion kuna cash into its nuts. These same banks reward their managers for such a well done job, is this just a pay for a well done job for them, on the basis of unrealised exchange rates, they receive vertigo bonuses of 1.9 billion kuna net for the banking manager's lobby in Croatia where individual bonuses occur up to 5 million kuna net, which means they are worth 50 top doctors in Croatia. And now the question is raised, so we are not against the business of banks in Croatia but simply the entire system set up in 2000, and not just an example of Croatia is that Croatia was a form of how it was done in Iceland, as it was done in Hungary, as it was done in other Southeast countries, it was simply a form of behaviour. And today it's up to us that the behavior that was at that age where the market was wild and offering everything and everything, and today people in debt slavery are correct and that banks won't lose as much as they say. They will lose and close only those financial derivatives or unrealised exchange rates that were positive at the time, and now they will have negative ones and simply let people live on. In 2014 alone, the profit of the CNB was 2.7 billion kuna. profit, business banks in 2014 2.5 billion kuna. So the profit of the CNB is greater than the profit of the business banks. 5.2 billion kuna according to CNB reports. Today there are various speculations about how this will affect the entire Croatian picture in Croatia is being set up and you can start from what you will put in the centre. Are you going to put the financial system and the banks that are 25 years in the centre and around them only counts on how much they will actually lose or not put Croatian citizens in the centre? It is for me and the secular issue and the question of the sovereignty of the state that such anomalies that have appeared on the market to correct them, to show that we are a sovereign state and that we will protect our citizens. I thank you for your patience for listening but we certainly expect a constructive debate today, because I think that today Croatian citizens are interested in a message from the Croatian Parliament that will go towards them, certainly because they depend on their fates on their property and they are not asking for my people anything. They only ask for what they've paid to be admitted, nothing more. They will continue to pay their loans neatly, nothing more, only what they have paid to be recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118810	Before we move on to the replicas of respected ministers, can we assess any evil for any good? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now we have 11 replicas of the Minister's presentation. Let's get this straight. Honourable representative Petar Baranovic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118811	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, as Mr. President has said every evil for one good, and it is good that in this House, one minister not only speaks of sovereignty but acts as Minister of the Sovereign State. That's good. Both the law and the intention of this law to preserve the survival of tens of thousands of citizens is an absolutely correct goal and for these reasons we as a party will support your law. However, I am obliged to warn you of a lack of law in the sovereign state of the Constitution, which is the principle of equality, and this is the fact that these anomalies that you have spoken of in your presentation in the functioning of the banking system and financial market in Croatia over the past years have not only been affected by citizens, so only natural persons who have been raising loans for residential purposes, but have also been affected by businessmen where, when the government has brought the first palitative measure, we have absorbed one of the colleagues and I need to protect farmers and craftsmen, but this does not stop the whole story. A whole series of entrepreneurs in Croatia, in those days, were raising loans for their activities, for the purchase of equipment, for building facilities, for entrepreneurial activities, raising these loans. By law, many of them guarantee their assets for the return of these loans. Their companies have been brought into a difficult and impossible business because of these irregularities and injustices and we must protect them and their employees from failure which can be equally conditioned by loans that are not properly placed on the market. I will, as an agent, submit an amendment to the law that this law applies to all legal and natural persons who are users of credit in Swiss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118812	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118813	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, when we worked and evaluated this law, we tried to cover as much as we could. However, with entrepreneurs, what I was telling you was likely because of less and less information in this part of the protection of their balance sheet is precisely buying the same derivatives that the banks actually used in their queens. And that is one basic right in entrepreneurship and that is, the consumer protection directive did not allow us to separate entrepreneurship from consumers because the consumer does not have the right to do so. However, every entrepreneur at the time, not only in this part of Switzerland, you have very large entrepreneurs who export to the United States and protect against the US dollar exchange rate, you know and our shipbuilding has one part in kunas and wages, exports charge in other currencies must take care of their currency exposure and there are instruments on the financial market to protect themselves from risk. And that's why, with everything that we would personally want on the financial market, they appear, and then those who have in dollars of losses, etc., we simply can't accept it, although I understand and say it myself, we might as well accept it, but because of this part, we won't be able to accept this part of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118814	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Goran Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118815	Mr. Minister, you said this was a permanent solution. Unfortunately, this is not a permanent solution, nor can it be. Because as long as there's a currency clause, there's also a currency risk, while there's a currency risk, there's also great uncertainty and there's certainly new problems. But that's why there's a sword above all those who still have, users of credits that have loans tied to the euro. But what is certain, the Swiss franc case will remain a permanent stain in Croatia. Help those, I don't think there's anyone who can help those who are disfigured and damaged. And I support and support the measure that this law will bring to the satisfaction of the 50,000 family of credit-users. But I must stress the risk that this proposal carries. No one should determine the law with financial consequences and such a law is a fixed model without knowing the total cost. There's no telling if it's one billion, three billion, eight billion, or maybe 12. Who knows what number the governor will wake up with every morning, there's always another number. We have a model, and we don't have a major assumption, and it carries with it a huge risk in the future, including the lawsuits and everything but the implementation itself. We have an implementation project for the house, we don't have the foundations but we don't have any walls, they're not all covered. What about the ones who paid off the loan? If this is about the subscription of the subscription and the repayment of the overpayment, then it also applies to those, those who had the credit that returned the loan also subscribed. Those who converted both companies and craftsmen and units of local self-government, all of them subscribed, but were discriminated against by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118816	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118817	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Your Honor. Yes, so we were leading, when we were discussing this, about the coverage of this loan, that is, this law and it was being conducted also within the government of the polemics about how much we can cover and exactly the legal profession, I am not a lawyer, I apologize, all the time of the effort, because what has been paid off, what has been converted, or what has no obligation anymore at present is that this part of being in retroactive is because then there can be problems in 1990 when loans that have been paid by 20 percent in German marks or some other relationship, then you just don't have those limits anymore. And that way, unfortunately, we couldn't cover it. However, if this law passes and I hope that all those who, in that part, will be able to prove, may have easier proof before the courts if they go into some individual proceedings to subscribe their share back and get it. And I must honestly agree with you on the governor's assessment, although my words can sometimes cost me, in conversation with the governor when we first proposed this law was spoken about 5 billion kuna, now we are already reaching 8 billion kuna today. I don't know, honestly, these are the responsibilities of the Croatian National Bank and the data they have. So all that data that we actually tried to get even when we were making this bill, and the governor himself said that the difference between those Swiss people who paid back from this one in euros is that the difference is only 3% on average, that only 3% on average. And then we confessed to these human subscriptions if it's only 3% and now it turns out it's only 3 percent that it's 3 billion kuna. I don't want any more, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118818	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you've read part of the Austrian Supreme Court verdict, so I would just continue two sentences from that same verdict that are very important to our people, for the Croatian people we're talking about today. Namely, it says prosecutors were unilaterally explained to banks, banks, or forgive citizens, only the good side of the funding model was unilaterally explained to prosecutors, and they were not consulted or referred to their risks. So it's something that every Croatian citizen who today has a problem with loans in francs can just say so. And it is said further that the prosecutors would not be, so the citizens of Austria would not be even close to such property status, so bad as they were if they weren't given a service of lack of counseling and that's what we're talking about today too. So the CNB is from the very beginning and all the governors were very aware of the potential risk and it was absolutely their responsibility because they of course must worry about the stability of the banking system, that is their task. But first of all, they must take care of Croatian citizens, because the CNB as an independent institution is dependent on the interest of Croatian citizens and citizens and is dependent on the stability of Croatian citizens because then, of course, this leads to the stability of the state. And their threats we heard in these discussions these days too, new taxes are actually really scary because CNB has no possibility of affecting taxes because it is in the power of the government, the Ministry of Finance and ultimately the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118820	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118821	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to talk about this because a lot of it has been said about loans in Swiss, but in violation of the provisions of this law, it is said that a fine of 80 to 200 thousand kuna will be fined for a violation by a believer or a credit intermediary. This law came into force on 30 September, and within 45 days, banks should actually determine annuities for credit users. Every loan was tied to a contract, I'm talking about old loans. The banks should now offer new contracts. The contract is a two-way relationship between the bank and the client, but in this case, it is about creditors or guarantees. What about those old guarantees, I'm talking about the technical problems of these contracts, which if they don't want to be my guarantees anymore, what if they don't want to be my judges. What about the costs associated with these loans or the implementation difficulties that will occur and the banks will insist on public records services, I do not know then what was necessary for such a contract, but it is certain that not enough thought has been given and that these are certain shortcomings. And you yourself said that out of conversations with the CNB, certain things happened that were contrary. Then they were talking about 3%, 5%, 3 billion, 5 billion, now they're talking 8 billion kuna about the cost of banks, then the loss in the state budget and so on. So whether a thorough analysis is done to the end is certainly not what is visible, but to go in favor of those who are actually covered by this is the truth. But here's what I'd like is your thinking about this technical implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118822	Replication response, Honored Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118823	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, yes, we have worked very thoroughly regardless of what we say about how much impact there will be on the market, especially from the legal profession because the Ministry of Justice has been extremely helpful. And the guarantee issue must remain as it has been so far, with the guarantees having the same relationships as they had so far and their obligations must be converted in that part. It will be as if the guarantees have been taken at the level of the euro. However, it is important to say that you cannot ask for additional... and additional insurance instruments. All existing must remain as existing. Also related to costs means there is no additional charge for conversion, there is no additional cost and we have taken account of it and it explicitly states in the law that there must be no additional costs during this conversion. However, legal relations as they were now will be valid in the future, with much let's say a much smaller, much less burden than their anuities show now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118824	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118825	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, first of all, thank you for your courage. This is one of the few cases, I've been here a long time, to see an open and clear idea of the minister what he really wants to do and that it's in the citizens' interest. This problem has a few aspects, I think we'd better call them real names. We're talking about the cost of banks, there's no cost of banks, there's a potential future profit that's not going to happen or that's going to be less. It's not the same thing. Second, obviously this is about a world scam. People got credits you say in Swiss, in euro no one alive saw any Swiss, no euro, people got kunas. And while there's this crazy definition in the Mandatory Relations Act, there won't be any luck. People should be returning what they got. If they got the Swiss okay to return the Swiss, but if they got the kuna they should return the kunas. Third, avoiding the retroactive sanctioning of banks or the return of overpaid means acknowledging that it is not a fraud. I think it's a hoax, and that retroactivity wouldn't pull any bad legal conjecture. Worse conjecture could pull away the fact that not all citizens will find themselves in the same legal position, which is contrary to the Constitution of course. And there were words here contracts are sacred. Yeah, contracts are sacred if they're not cheating. If they're deceitful, then they're not sacred. And that's what you do and do well, don't give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118826	The minister said thank you, but it's not written down. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118827	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, I remember the year when the governor of the Croatian National Bank here filed a report on these years. Then on this right hand came the praises, came the guru, told the guru. It was a political message at the time, and don't God forbid someone put out a little criticism against the CNB. So much for not pulling things anymore. However, it was very interesting 6 months ago around Raiffeisen's cooperative could not pass a legal solution to the delay in the execution because it was illegal. However, I have suggested such a conclusion that the government has rejected and most in this House have refused. Now he can do it all at once. So wait a minute, what are we talking about? Now let's get to what's the problem. So, I am interested, I have asked the first in this House and among the first in Croatia a question to which I have not received an answer to this day. Are the banks in charge of the Swiss? Yes or no, it's the key to everyone, the question of all the questions and all the answers. And another question, Mr. Minister. After many political struggles, the Ministry of Finance and I and later my successors and colleagues Linic and you passed the Law on fiscal responsibility where we said that every legislative proposal must have a fiscal effect. We're making a legal proposal that you yourself said was the calculation of the home, so the CNB varies from 4 to 8 billion as if it were a matchbox. It's not small money. We're passing the law that we don't have an assessment of his fiscal impact. Indicating in the explanation that less income will be achieved from profit tax because of this or that, it is a fiscal effect and that is the cost of the budget. But this should be listed inside, because it is indisputable and today all the debates will show that all the representatives and all the Croatian public want to help these unfortunate citizens who have fallen into the blizzards of Switzerland. But if it wasn't for the loan-lifting. Just one sentence, please. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] If it was a one-sided swap of transactions then we solved the problem, then there's no problem. But that's something to be said in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118828	Comrade Shucker, one correction. Ministers are not heirs, no inheritance. They're followers. It's a big difference, and we have to make it right. ... They're not heirs or can be, they can't be heirs. [[You can't hear it.]] The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118829	Thank you, Mr. President. It means only one short answer that was confirmed by the CNB. Banks in Croatia were not in debt in Swiss francs, bulletin 22. HNB of August 2011. I read the quote. They even say that they worked with queens and say they had a small level of source in that currency and that they had a big net open position. That they had lost 3.3 billion in Croatia, that they had received 3.3 billion in nuts and had earned 3 and a half billion kuna in exchange for exchange rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118830	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118831	Thank you very much. Dear President, you've made it clear that here and now in response to the replica that they had both folds and springs and that they were using essentially an extra profit course. According to the Law on Mandatory Relations, the very meaning of the Law on Mandatory Relations and Currency Clause is primarily the protection against loss, not the achievement of extra profit. It's under the Mandatory Relations Act. It's also not a normal market situation where we have a situation with a Swiss franc in which he had an 80% volatility. So from 4.35 to 7.84. What is also important and crucial to point out once again, I hope not only to all citizens who have loans in Swiss francs that this law has been extremely taken into account and has been a priority for bringing them into a level playing field, but it is not possible for those citizens who have taken loans in euro or kunas to be in a worse position. However, those who have taken loans in Swiss francs are in an equal position with citizens who have taken loans in euro and kunas. Another interesting maybe finding, you'll know it better in communication with banks. So the banks said they offered to convert into euro. All banks have offered conversion to euro since 2007, eighth and further. Then I can ask a question, so why are they complaining?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118832	Next replica, the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Article 357a is replaced by the following: We see how the conversion process excluded those credit beneficiaries whose loan obligation had ceased, i.e. those who needed financial resources collected in the family, borrowed from friends and, finally, on 15 January, at the rate of 6,39, paid off their credit. I think it would be fair for them to return at least part of it if nothing else had been paid in the process. The second question is whether the process of conversion should take into account the social moment and for which the credit was used. For the first real estate like the only apartment or for building apartments? To that question, I was quoted by today's media data, where out of 55,000 Swiss users, as much as 9,000 credits in the range of 100 to 200 thousand Swiss francs. And even 1,400 users with a larger loan than 200,000 Swiss francs. Such courage certainly did not have an ordinary citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118834	Replication response, Minister Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118835	Thank you. So since I'm at first your question I've already said unfortunately about the overpayment of those who have closed that is such a legal relationship that has been closed and unfortunately the legal profession has said in that part of its. However, I see that this debate is being held today, and in that part it will still be held today. So all the lawyers can confirm is that. However, regarding this second part, I know that the issue of the loan will be opened. We know very well that one large part of the relationship is not only the growth of the exchange rate and the growth of interest rates that remains frozen in unfortunately very high price growth of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. We had real estate prices because of the simple way, and there was supposed to be some kind of mechanism, not to say some kind of real estate tax where it was just like that that that prevented a balloon. The balloon that happened in many countries. I say, the same splendor that was happening out there was happening in Croatia. So the big part when we mention that they are there today, if you take that in New Zagreb, Jarun has reached 2,500 euros, and then when you multiply these, then it amounts to maybe a lot but it may look like an apartment from 60 to 70 squares again. So in the risk assessment, if the bank was assessing in that part, and it felt that a neat loan could be returned because of this, we wanted to include everything that simply would not be the part of the Swiss. However, regardless of what the amount looked like, real estate prices were inflating values that the citizens in that part could not return. So today and such a large amount does not necessarily mean that they were large apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118836	Next replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118837	Dear Minister, you have today in the opening letter revealed to us here in the Croatian Parliament as well as to the entire Croatian public something that we have not yet had the opportunity to hear, about the setting up of the LIBOR, about these details that cast another aspect, not just a question of violation of the Law on Mandatory Relations, violation of the fundamental principle of the Constitution and the definition of the Croatian State, so Article 4. The Law on Bonds of the Principle of Consciousness and Honesty rather than an absolute zone of what you say and the way you act points to a serious suspicion or criminal act of fraud. This Regulation shall enter The Penal Code says, and we also have the criminal responsibility of legal persons, so the legal person responsible and the direct perpetrator. Here's to remind ourselves of what our Penal Code in Article 236 says. So much for banks that are threatening. "Who, with the aim of obtaining an illegal property benefit for himself or another, brings someone by false display or by concealing facts in error or by keeping him in error, thereby causing him to do something or does something or does not punish himself with a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years, and if this brings significant property benefit or material damage to him, he will be punished by a prison of 1 to 8 years." We also have the same identical criminal offence in the criminal responsibility of legal persons. So much for the one who's threatening. Of course, no authority is good enough to rule criminal charges, but here are the authorities of persecution heard and know what to do if they find foreshadowed that there are grounds for suspicions against responsible persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118838	Replication response, Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118839	Thank you. I might have two more things to add to your question. You know that when the global financial crisis started in 2006, right in their U.S. Congress, bankers were called and were called in to establish their criminal responsibility. That was done in Iceland. You know they're done with certain prison sentences. In our neighbouring Austria, too, there are procedures against some who have actually achieved this kind of financing policy on the Croatian market, and in their illegal businesses and the release of such a form of capital, the release of a part of slavery. So that's a much wider story. And this is that they were setting up EURIBOR and where they were punished with the billions they had to write off, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia also made certain decisions on interest rates. These are also one area ahead of us and in which we must give answers because it is the property of a citizen, it is not the property of a bank. The citizens want to return neatly. However, with each purchase of an apartment in the calculations, one apartment will be returned to the bank. But do they still have two or three apartments to return? It's a question and morale now and what you've actually been saying about criminal responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118840	The last line, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118841	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I think it's very important that you said this information that the banks were not in charge of the Swiss francs. I think it significantly weakens the position of banks when we talk today and about this law, generally compared to those they gave credit to. And in that sense, I think it's a very important piece of information today, I thought you said it was the 2011 data. However, I think we should think carefully about whether we can pass a law that will be discriminatory to a certain number of citizens who have paid off these loans. Namely, your argument that it's retroactiveness couldn't stand because the retroactiveness of the show is for everyone else who's been paying off so far. So, for the period that's after us. So I think you should think about how to compensate those citizens who paid off the loans, and some of them believe me, some of them paid off in a way that they sold their property to close those loans and today they're tenants of some of them. So, and the third aspect, which is very important, is the question really, just before which are the principles of my colleagues, you are acting on it to answer but a question of social approach. If in this way we are really going to help those who bought maybe yachts or bought a third, fourth, fifth, sixth real estate, then we really need to consider whether we can still make additional efforts to clarify this social approach in this law. Here in this sense, because it can indeed be opened after this can open the pandorin kutins and also those who are in charge in euro, in kunas, etc. And the fourth thing, about the new bank contracts, how are we going to force the bailiffs to re-sign the guarantee on those loans? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118842	The reply to the replica of Minister Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118843	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. So about the guarantees, so all these legal relations that existed they still remain so there's no additional signings about the guarantees. Let me say I'm not a lawyer, and I see that today there are discussions about this work overpaid and those who are closed, so we're here today to hear all of your opinions, especially, and about those who had 3, 4, or 5 properties so they bought, I'm going to tell you one piece of information that I got today and that scared me, when I saw what forms of plasma banks were working in Croatia. The first 100 debtors of natural persons who are blocked on that list by 30 billion kuna, the first 100 debtors where they are blocked with their personal name and last name are in debt to banks 6 billion kuna, 6 billion kunas and last name are obliged to business banks, 100 natural persons in the Republic of Croatia. Now we're asking a question of gambling, speculation, dealings with these people. You know I'm public and I said there's a banking group that founded its own d.o.o. and in Croatia simply unloaded 4 billion kunas of losses last year, 4 billion kunas of losses. I ask the question, what has it been done in Croatia in the last 10 years? And comparing 100 of them that have speculated, these are those people who have speculated, who have been together, these people, regardless of who has one apartment, about yachts, cars are done talking, they've been paid off already because for 10, 15 years, people actually pay off in Swiss. 99% of these are residential loans and are most likely, unfortunately we couldn't get the information whether it was first or second real estate. But those who probably already have real estate are in this 100-dollar portfolio that owes banks 6 billion kuna. I suggest they deal with the team, because that's where they lost the money. Here the money is not lost, here the money is not lost just going to close its forwards towards the queens and will no longer draw money in its queen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118844	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. The Honorable Slavko Linic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Left-wings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Let's start with an assessment of the situation to try to answer whether these laws are needed and then the hardest thing to do with these assessments is that we have over 320 thousand blocked citizens who simply don't have enough means to live and let alone regulate their obligations. We see that we have 55,000, more than 53,000 citizens at risk with loans in Swiss francs. We also see that the great results, the government's attempt to write off debts, and he didn't give. These are small amounts, mostly good works successfully by utility, local self-government, state but not strong enough to support from banks and companies. And then when you have such situations, of course you come to the point that you need to solve the debt crisis of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Then you're still wondering if we can determine who's responsible for this debt crisis? Then we will see very clearly that the most responsible for the debt crisis, for this vast number of citizens, for the billions that citizens have long been blamed by banks and bankers. There's no doubt about it. It's simply a basic criterion for banking business to keep an eye on its committee. The banks didn't respect, they didn't respect. Although aware that, according to their professional criteria, citizens cannot be in debt, a new product was introduced by the Swiss franc. A little lower interest both at that point and those who couldn't really borrow the banks drove them towards borrowing. The culprits of the banking system, the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, they intervened in the fact that even illegal ones, we can see that it may be that our citizens are closing out of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, it's really a fact, the responsibility of a banker. Is it the National Bank's fault? Yes, but the biggest fault of the National Bank is in 2014. Why in 2014? The People's Bank has an impact on bank debt to its queens. And in the last year, since we don't have economic activities, we don't have a position towards the economy, since citizens are over-indebted, that suddenly politics has changed, they don't even have to be hidden even by those who can pay them back. The banks have money... And at that point, the National Bank has a very serious impact on return policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why didn't she give the order to return the Swiss debts and choose to convert loans to euro citizens? The National Bank could have really set this up with an ultimatum or made it impossible to create problems for banks in deleveraging and repaying loans. Yeah, that's what the National Bank could have done last year. The governor also made it very clear in his document that banks were responsible and imagined, took care of the committees from 2007 to 2011 tried to convert the bad product into euro, tried. Imagine how many made it? 35 or 50 credits made it. So you're wondering if the citizens are not mature enough because they didn't want an offer from the bank that warned them that they had a bad product to accept? No, I don't. 4.5 years old, the banks are doing it, but the biggest problem is if they've been charging the cost of conversion, it's all supposed to be paid by a citizen. Well, it's not enough that he slipped his interest rate on Swiss but another cost of conversion... For five years, the banks have not come to the conclusion that in their policy you do not have to pay for the conversion, we will pay for it. They didn't either, and they didn't want to. And they saw that there was no conversion, and they saw that the public's warning that he had a bad product didn't work. All this points to the enormous responsibility of the financial sector and the supervisory authority for a bad product which, of course, after approaching the euro, is now going to have tragic consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now we come to these laws, laws that solve citizens' problems. Is that a good model? I personally believe it's not a good model and there are huge, huge risks and I want to talk about the bad model we got. First of all, the backbone of the model rests on constitutional provisions that we are a social state, these are clearly referred to in Article 1, Article 49, and the laws themselves are referred to in Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia means social protection. Today we see that the minister is saying that the truth is that the banks were in charge of the Swiss. I'm sorry, that's when the law was supposed to rest on fraud and not rest on fraud. Is that resting on fraud then we really have the right to do a lot of things, a lot of things. But if we rest on the social clause, in the social settings of the Constitution, you'll allow why we don't have social criteria in this law, we don't have social criteria. We know that whoever bought the yacht, expensive cars, and they're right, expensive cars, yacht, the one who built the house with 5, 6 apartments, he's also inside. You'll allow it, it's a weakness of the law, everyone will be called upon not to rest the law on social criteria, if they have the right. And imagine the one that was forced from the bank to convert isn't the problem of those who converted themselves, but imagine banks don't pay this, like, then converts you to a new payment war and forces you to sign. You're not covered either. Is that social justice? It's not. Because if we know the banking system a little bit better, then we need to know what they did to the citizens. These citizens today have those terrible debts in the euro, they were forced to sign. We want to say that these same bankers forced citizens into euro, offered them that they could get high dividends and high fees for successful administrations to take loans. How many citizens are blocked in euro? How many citizens will now, once you turn them back into a European debt, be blocked because we are taking care of them if we see that certain political parties are preventing dissuasion. We have a total obstruction of the judicial system that has to judge if there are laws, and poor people are being thrown out. Did we cover that? We didn't. Is that social? Why didn't we find out that these same bankers, regardless of the bad product, were pushing the citizens without just any documents to be in debt and now they're taking away their apartments. Why didn't we stop it through this law, if we're referring to social criteria? And it was supposed to be in there. As I can see, we'll finally have a stop to confiscation of property to those who are illegally or, as we say now, trespassing from contracts abroad. Well, until we figure it out, we're gonna stop it. And why don't we stop the operation in francs or tomorrow there's no francs, in euro citizens who lost their jobs, have no pay and what is the bank's responsibility should not have given them credit. It's not the responsibility of the citizens, the bank. So we have no social criteria. And we're also helping those on the other hand, so let's hear if it's true that we have 2.5% of credit users with 11% of credit mass above 200 thousand euros. On average, 275,000 euros, I apologize, Swiss officials. Well, let's make sure there's two of them in the family, three of them are not social criteria. It's a vulnerability, it's a weakness of this law. If we are referring to the Constitution, then the social state must have the social criteria inside, and then we should have covered and stopped the operations at the first real estate. And it's obvious that the first real estate and the means to work, and the means to work, should be the only social criteria they had to put in here. And that is the greatest weakness of this law. And we'll have negative consequences for him. Secondly, I said about the CNB, they're guilty, but if we have to take serious CNB warnings and try to assess whether they're serious. If they really find that they will rapidly deleverage in foreign exchanges, that this will mean a reduction in foreign exchange reserves, that this may affect the skating of the exchange rate, do we know what we're doing with this law? I'm asking if we're serious about this. Because it's me that the governor is indigenous and that he's just talking and nothing does to me is not an expert explanation. Do you know what that means? If these warnings are serious, it means that everyone who is now in charge of the euro and those new ones who will enter the euro by skating the course, by skating the course, they will all have negative consequences if the governor is right. I have my own opinion, but I wanted to hear that from the promoter, whether the risk of exchange rate differences is present because of what can happen to the skating course. No doubt there will be inadequate reductions. There's no doubt about it. The governor's last document to our committees speaks of a one-time effect of nearly 8 billion on the financial sector, a one-time effect. This has no doubt that we will have disruptions in the banks' enough interest to continue to place loans in Croatia and that we can also have problems in financing the needs of citizens, the needs of businessmen, needs and states. It has no doubt, these are the warnings we have and that these warnings I think we should have taken seriously, professionally respond to at least to our parliamentary representatives because these problems can have very negative repercussions for us. And then the basics. If we are already talking about social welfare and the foundation of this social law remains the question of whether all the burden should have been transferred to the financial sector. That's what I'm saying for what reason? Because we see certain European countries when they talk about the social aspect, however, the solutions offered that part of that social burden fall on the financial sector, for us we could also go to the state budget, meaning the burden of the state. Because if it's a social matter, then the state needs to be seen. And then it's a fairer way of distribution, not making banks go after courts that you know how much it costs when we go to international courts. Therefore, both the example of Poland and the example of Hungary is a certain burden allocation not only on the financial sector but also on the state budget or on taxpayers. There is another weakness in Croatia's ruling of the Supreme Court that we will not talk about, which confirms that the judgments of commercial courts are accepted, final and these verdicts say that the bankers did not deceive the citizens by warning them or not warning them of the negative side of the loan and that they believe that FRANAK does not have the right to exchange rates because the banks were correct. These are the rulings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. So the verdict that tells bankers that the legal system has established that there have been no mistakes in the past. One of the more difficult circumstances for a bill like this where we throw everything at banks and threaten ourselves. If it were the weaknesses of this system, there is no social component, an irregular distribution, and I would say the problem that we may be jeopardizing our macroeconomic stability which may have negative consequences again for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now, most tragically, this has no doubt that there will be a war between the banking system and the state. I consider the Swiss in charge to be able to sleep peacefully, the banks will not pursue them, but the banks will chase the Republic of Croatia because of such failures, nor are we social, but we have thrown everything at them with one measure. We have a Supreme Court ruling against us when we observe this law and we have an Investment Protection Act. The Law on the Protection of Investments, which makes it very clear what retroactive action of individual laws means. And what does all this mean to you? That if the banks succeed, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia will pay, if the governor is correct 8 billion kuna, which means that our budget will be charged by 8 billion. With a little more quality proposal in which we really had to be more responsible and deal with only social issues, and then really here to resolve and stop the blockades of citizens in both euro and Swiss and for Raiffeisen from Austria. We could do this because then it's a social issue, dealing with only the first real estate because that's what banks can determine anyway we've given them that all contracts have to be controlled and shown that in the social issues that we have then they must also be participated by the state budget. And I think we'd have far fewer problems and fewer risks than this law. And that's why I don't think it's sufficiently accessible to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118846	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118847	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleague Linic, at the very beginning, you said that it was the basis of the minister's statement that it could be concluded that this was actually a fraud. After that you talked about social categories or social.... I have to be honest and say it's a little confusing, but if it's a hoax, then it's a hoax to other people, not just to those who go into the social class. And I'm not saying that because of the first 100, I'm not saying that because I know some cases where parents were only able to borrow and borrow loans that bought the only real estate to their children, children who formed their lives, who formed their families. As for these big loans, let's say the first 100 on that list, and where is the bank's responsibility? Isn't it a bank if it made it possible for someone who obviously had a credit incapacitated part of their responsibility? Is it perhaps policy and the financial sector or some influential lobby? And we'll charge ourselves from the whole crowd of citizens. I don't know, I may have misread it, but I think if we're talking about justice, then we need to consider these people as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118848	Thank you. Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118849	When I talk about my grades, when I talk about my findings, then I say that the banks were irresponsible and that they cheated on the citizens. In order to share high wages, fees, they forced citizens, remember, not just in loans, into minuses. So just remember the war over the damn minus when they let three and four times the pay minus just to make the citizens spend, so they can get the money. Allow me, it's an unserious, irresponsible work of banks and the fraud of their committees. The basic thing that's always been banking is that a banker protects his committee, that he thinks about him because he knows the financial profession. But these are my personal grades. And we're talking now about a law which is the basis of these proposals of ours speaking on the social side. Well, now you have to be careful, if you're the foundation... in the Constitution for Social Justice then you have to show that social criterion. You don't have it, you just take it... in Swiss people who haven't paid off the debt yet or who bought him a debt, forgetting those who are forced to convert early so they have their own enormous obligations now in euros or those who are in a blockade so they just take real estate every day, throw them out on the street. It's a social criterion. If the government is already proposing a document on social criteria, then it should have been written inside, we protect the first real estate, no one can be delegated independently to the euro or this because it is the bank's responsibility. And that's why, so one is my feelings, and the other is the professional writing of the law, and that's why I'm commenting on the weaknesses of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118850	Next replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118851	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Linić, when you were talking about the social component, so if the government wanted us to have a social component, then in the Croatian Parliament I would believe this point, which is today 88th, which is the proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the legal halting of the conduct, kidnapping and occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own, and in which they live, which was proposed by the HDSSB a year and a half ago because we felt what was happening. But it is evident that no one cared to deal with it right now. But you were just talking about the social component, and I'd say this was about the interest because when we talk about the interest rate, then we have to say that the borrowers were in a bad position, and that's exactly where they're getting increased capital. Many people are ruined and many families are just because of hopelessness, loss of work, and many have committed suicide. But we at the HDSSB club certainly hold that in the same position must be the ones who paid off the loans and the ones that didn't. Therefore, when talking about the negative consequences for the country, positive effects must also be given to those who have paid off loans and those who pay off still today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118852	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118853	... Croatia's problem of engagement has been present for several years. [[Specially enabled.]] He is particularly escalating because of demands from the banks for evictions because they sell the property and the new owner insists on evictions. It is something that is clearly recognised in the Republic of Croatia, and that is why I believe that if indeed the backbone of these two laws is social justice, the constitutional provision that speaks of the social equality of citizens in the Republic of Croatia then it is necessary to protect indeed all those who have the only real estate, the first real estate, however you will, even though it was 300,000 euros because we are not going to talk about the border now. It should be protected not to go out on the street, but then it was meant to be protected because these same banks with their same mentality were pushing loans to incompetent citizens and were supposed to protect them from decommissioning. Because if we're protecting now with amendments to credits for nothing with Raiffeisen. How are we going to find an excuse that tomorrow the bank of someone with Euros or this new Swiss man who entered the euro and who can't pay, will throw again. So it was supposed to be an integral part, but not only for the protection of citizens and social equality, but also because tomorrow if we really are in an international dispute with banks, and as they announce we will then have to show why we were worried about it. Well, we didn't worry about the one who bought the yacht with the Swiss or the one who built the house with 4, 5 apartments. Well, we can't justify that kind of social justification, and it'll be a weakness in our defense that we've protected socially endangered citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118854	Next replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118855	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, you have rightly stated that no social criteria have been taken into account. But the question is whether this is a social problem or a fraud problem. If it's said the banks, which I've been claiming for years, the banks haven't had Swiss francs. Then it's a scam. Then it's about the banks selling a non-existent fictitious phantom product infected with a vicious virus. And the CNB even announced once that banks had partly in the sources of Swiss franc funds, and then in the bulletin it denied itself that they did not. Apparently the CNB's report says it's a fraud. But the CNB also warned against the danger of such loans. They were so convincing, the governor was convincing that he didn't convince himself, so he took out a loan in Swiss francs. There's so much about their persuasion. The CNB also warns of the danger of destabilising the financial system. And why he didn't warn himself when he wrote in the newsletter that the population has 123 billion kuna credits, and the companies 106, and of 106 billion partially uncharging or non-refundable loans, there are as many as 32 billion classified. How is that not a threat to the financial system? And when banks have to book 14 billion kunas just on that basis and 8 billion kunas based on the population that it's not destabilising and that it's not an impact on bank profits when it's a direct loss of banks. But the CNB is watching all this, because he didn't build a body in the stock market regulatoryly, but they act like it was built there on an ex-terrestrial particle of the embassy for private interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118856	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118857	Personally, I also believe that the good part of it is full of illegality, a lot of fraud in the business of the financial sector. I can confirm that from personal experience. But let's get back to the law. The governor has several times, and unfortunately the Frank association has clearly responded that the banks were in charge of the euro. That's what the governor said. So we're saying if that's what the governor was saying about the supervisory authority, then let's not cheat, because they were in charge of Swiss and they just passed it on to the citizens. We have two materials. Except for one shy sentence that most were in euro. Now I don't know which most of them. Whether it's a total placement or one of the Swiss, I don't see it there. You don't have any passports in these documents that talk about bank fraud and illegal activities. You don't have that. Now if you don't have what the minister here pulled some paper from the National Bank doesn't have in it, there's no paper. Now I'm asking you, you have to tell on what this law was done? On the basis of the social criteria, they say, not on the basis of illegal, unprofessional or whatever we want not to be too harsh the work of banks. And that's the weakness of this document, because we wouldn't have a problem protecting anyone who bought a super yacht if it was based on illegal work and unprofessional bank work. And we'll set him free because he can't. But then we also have to free those who have paid off. Do you understand me? So let's try to figure it out. I'm talking about the document, no illegal and deceitful work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118858	Time. Replica, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118859	Here, let's pick up where you left off in the previous replica. In fact, the question is raised if exactly what the minister said here, quoting the 2011 report, that banks were not in debt in Swiss francs. Then we really need to think about whether the law on fraud or what it is now on, which is on the constitutional category of social equality. So he can't do both. It's either one thing or another. If it is a fraud, then it is quite clear that we should approach it in a completely different way and make a completely different law. If it is about social equality as a foundation, then there are really no social criteria. That's what I was talking about in my replica minister. We can't put in the same basket those who bought yachts, third, fourth, fifth, sixth properties, etc. or luxury cars, etc. And we can't if it's about equality, and we can't ignore the fact that some citizens have paid off or have converted, forced conversion. We can't ignore that. So we have to cover all these citizens. The topic remains if the real financial impact is 8 billion, and the question is whether 8 billion. I think it would be good if the governor came before the Croatian Parliament, presented all relevant information. And I'm surprised that no proposal has been accepted. I think the party that the governor appears before the Croatian Parliament and clarifys all the information needed in this situation. Because if the cost ultimately falls on the state budget, then it will really cause a deeper crisis than we can even see at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118860	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118861	Thank you. To immediately make clear the document that the committees received by the National Bank speak of a one-time impact on the banking system, 5.7 times the cost of a one-off write-off, the cost of reducing the annuity of a billion and 7 and the cost of those other loans to 500, means 8 billion. This is the official written document that came to the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going and the numbers are written. There's what we're going back to. So we have to defend the social criteria. We can't defend it if it's houses with several apartments, if it's yachts and expensive cars. And the banks in conflict with the state because with this law all those in charge of Swiss are safe, they are not subject to charges. The charges will go to the state. I mentioned weaknesses in Croatia. Because we have a law on strong investment protection and another we have the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the case of an association that refused the Association for the Course of Difference because it believes that the banks correctly informed the committees. It's a very difficult verdict for the Republic of Croatia. And that's a big score on the side of any lawsuits. What does that mean? That it would fall to the budget. Well, now I'm asking how much are we willing to accept from the budget that we pay someone the exchange rate difference? Who's gonna have a house with four apartments or an expensive car or an expensive boat if it falls to the state budget? Well, we're not the ones who can finance it from the budget. But we will, because we will pay for it if the verdict is negative. So let's try to figure out all the components are only given on the social. And we have weaknesses in that system. Transfer everything to the financial sector, and that's weakness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118862	Time. A new replica, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118863	So there is no dilemma I will normally support this law, I want to believe that the law will have no adverse consequences for the state, that it is more than pre-election and that it rightly resolves some relationship between banks and clients. It is clear that they cannot accept the thesis of, say, someone in the government that the governor behaves like a native because that is probably how Croatia would have gone far more painful in 2007, not uncircumcised when both America and England and Germany in that major banking crisis had to resuscitate their banking system. However, the fact seems to be, which the CNB governor himself is talking about, that banks one, two, three years will have to work without profit. Whether it's good or not, some others judge. That the state budget is left without their profit tax. That's certainly not good. Is that going to lead to the budget deficit? We'll see about that. Will this lead to a fall in international reserves perhaps more than a billion euros? We'll see about that. What are the indirect effects when we talk about credit ratings? We'll see about that. But what must surely be kept as a pupil of his own eye is not to question the course of the swearing. That's the elemental thing to go from. And another thing, how do you treat the citizens who paid off the loans? Well, they can't stay short sleeves. They cannot also be small entrepreneurs not covered and treated in the same way as those who have received loans for apartments because I claim that many of them are in a worse position than the employees who work with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118864	Answer, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118865	I agree, the government's communication with the governor that he is indigenous and has a high salary so he doesn't know how the citizens of the living are not serious answers to his document because that document was also in the Croatian Parliament. It would be good if every one of us had it. Because these are the things we all have to ask ourselves. If the governor warns that foreign exchange supplies will be reduced, if he warns that he will have to sell foreign exchanges, he clearly warns that it is possible to get to the skating rate. So now I'm asking what we're gonna do? How much is it? 200 thousand loans in euro plus now these 50, that's 250 thousand people will have a greater rate of difference. What's the consequence? The result is the decision we make. And did the governor warn us? He'll turn out to be a doberman again, this one'll turn out to be a native because he warned. But now I'm asking if each of us is aware that it's possible? What kind of answer do we have? Why don't we have a proposing who said that won't happen. I don't know, we're gonna increase exports, anything. If we had arguments and not I'd say what I'd say about slappings that we keep throwing away because we don't want to communicate about it all. It's important to us. I can take it, okay, we won't be able to borrow it, there'll be problems. Well, that's not the problem. It won't be three years, we'll have two billion somewhere else. It's small I'd say the damage we'll have, really small damages we'll have if it's the only one. But if there really is a significant disturbance in the exchange rate due to these financial transactions, then we will be responsible for all citizens who are in charge today in the euro and from tomorrow on, this new one. We're responsible, we've raised their course. So what do we do? Then it's not the bank's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118866	Time. New replica, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118867	Thank you. In your debate, you said that the state should therefore participate in the costs or as I understood the losses of banks. But I think it is primarily necessary when we talk about the term loss emphasized that a much more precise, much more precise term would be a lost profit. Because the current conversion of loans that were related to the Swiss franc is therefore tied to the euro. So there's no loss. Banks have loans on which they still pay off, so they get their money back from clients and can basically only be about lost profits. So there's no loss in the future. According to each of these loans, the bank clearly earns the profit of who and those to whom it has issued normally in euro. The second thesis you pointed out is that perhaps the difference between certain credit users should be made depending on the amount of credit they have raised. However, these loans concluded with the foreign exchange clause should, in my opinion, highlight the purpose of the foreign exchange clause, which was firstly introduced into the law even before to protect the credentials from exchange rates. So that there is no great loss in the value of the kuna and that there is no resulting fall, or great damage to the creditors or banks. However, in fact, there has been a contradiction here, this clause has grown to its opposite and has grown into an instrument of achieving a huge extra profit of banks on the exchange rate, and this law therefore returns this instrument to its original sense of the protection clause of loss and it, and this law fulfils that purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118868	Time. Answer Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118869	... Dear colleagues, I'm not interested in the fates of banks and their profits, their losses, and that's something that I see in this House really nobody wants to discuss, so neither am I. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm talking about the weaknesses of this law. If the backdrop of the law is on social criteria, these social criteria should be inside and there should be those who have paid off the credit and those who have been forced to convert and should be inside and European loans and protection of those who act as well as protection for zero contracts with Raiffeisen savings. It was all meant, it was a social criterion and it was supposed to be in there. And I'm also talking about the risk to the Croatian budget because we've transferred all the burden to the financial sector which we see is not common in Europe and can then share this social criterion between the budget and the banks that we haven't done, so we're just giving us a great chance that in the dispute with us it all falls to the budget. And we are talking about risks to the Croatian budget and we are talking about social justice that should have been put through social criteria here. And as for the banks, the banks are more or less responsible for all of us for this situation and they need to bear it on whether or not it matters at all, but we are looking out for our righteousness and our risks. Is that what we think banks are illegal, illegally anti-constitutional however you want, otherwise we don't state it in the law, you don't have it anywhere in the law, these are our feelings that we haven't entered into this law and these are our weaknesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118870	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, six months ago in this high house, we discussed that famous six-month report by the governor about financial movements and everything together. And now the only one, and now we're not going to glorify some things that he said to the deputy governor, so you could at least point to the Swiss problem. But it is very interesting that the government disagrees with the opinion of the Ombudsman or someone like that who protects the interests of the powerless on the 10 pages writes and explains why it does not agree with that opinion, but very interesting that a report that is not adopted in the Assembly, but which is not taken into account, did not find it appropriate to write a single sentence that the governor, given the traumas of tens of thousands of Croatian citizens around the Swiss, had to indicate this in his report as one of the potential problems for the financial sectors of the Republic, both for the state and for the banks. So then it wasn't the same as it was then that you couldn't adopt this conclusion about Raiffeisen's savings facility. And then it's said that it's impossible to stop the execution, but look a few days before the election anything can happen. So much for consistency and anything. What is crucial to this law and where the state could also be provided in a certain way, which could most importantly help those who are the most vulnerable and that is to divide the social aspect of this other. And as long as we in Croatia all social aid regardless of what kind of category they have, we will not have in the state budget that everyone sees that for social aid and so... in such a way we cannot say that we have arranged public finances because there are several billion kunas. So that's something that had to be here. And if that's how we distinguished it, look, a lot of the businessmen are gone in this economic crisis, they're gone, we've lost 200,000 jobs. Now, look, they don't need any help, and they don't need those who've raised for these or those reasons for a certain economic activity. Only half a sentence, a loan like this, so those who have first real estate should be helped and this should be seen in the state budget. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118872	Comrade Shucker, you always need half a sentence. ... The answer to the replica, I have to comment because I could rule you out when your time is up, so I'd better comment on you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Slavko Linic. ... Just a second, please. Just a second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, no threats from fellow Shucker, no threats, because those threats can certainly be understood. ... Slavko Linic's answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118873	The biggest grudge I have for the governor is that in 2014, he allowed the bank's detachment and he didn't force the banks to get rid of the Swiss and then he'd stay on the Swiss market with 5.3, 5.6 as long as he was in the first half of 2014, and there wouldn't be so much of these problems. And what's the problem that's been referred to by several clubs was the Raiffeisen savings and it was forced emigration from the first real estate. This seems to me to be on the agenda for six months now of a particular initiative, which means that the government really had to consider it socially this time on the social criteria, but also on the highlighted responsibilities and not the business of the business banks to seek a solution to stop the operation and seek a solution to these cases temporarily. Yeah, it was supposed to be a solution and that solution could then be more quality. Therefore, the governor and the National Bank cannot escape responsibility because they were to get rid of the Swiss, but the government was also to solve the citizens socially. And social settlement of citizens is the only property people live in and should not be taken away because we know what living standards mean and the government should have taken that as the most important criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118874	The debate now includes Deputy Finance Minister respected Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I need to miss the first part of the debate, the minister was here, and it's hard for me to tell now whether I'm going to do some things again or not, but I think it's important and the topic Mr. Linic opened about the role of the CNB. So we're in passing this law, and when we proposed and passed the law on freezing courses, we're talking about status quo right now for co-operation with banks and for co-operation with the CNB. A complete explanation or clarification and analysis came out yesterday, the day before the debate in the Croatian Parliament itself. will recall that for the last time during the debate on the freezing course at 6,39 also a statement by the CNB with all resources came just on the day of the debate. I will also remind you, in particular, of the members of the Committee on Finance that the Croatian Parliament, in an open public debate initiated by the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, concluded in its third point, if I am not mistaken, and 17 June if I am not mistaken, that the CNB is in charge of making a full analysis, solution, etc., that I am not looking for this now. Why didn't it happen three months ago, but in light of this debate of yours, let each of you draw conclusions. But since Mr Linic has opened this particular topic of what will happen with the course and how much this proposal threatens all holders of credit and other currencies, I will introduce you to a key sentence in a statement by the CNB published on 12 May, and I quote: "When it comes to possible effects related to the area of activity of the CNB, which is the stability of the course and banking system to the extent that the risks could be identified, the CNB has both determination and instruments to maintain the stability of the course and the banking system." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118876	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the vice president of the House of Honored Dragica Zgrebec will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118877	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. By abolishing an extraordinary and temporary measure to limit the growth of Swiss franc exchange rates towards the euro, which was declared by the Swiss Central Bank on 15 January this year, it caused an explosion in Swiss franc growth compared to kuna. It was the second major increase in Swiss franc courses since 2005 which totaled the exchange rate compared to kuna by almost 80%. In such conditions, credit users with a currency clause in the Swiss franc have come to an almost unexplainable situation and the inability to service the debt. According to the available data at the beginning of this year, the credit situation with the Swiss French currency clause was about 24 billion of which was placed 92% for the purpose of 93% for residential loans, which means that the majority of these loans are long-term loans with a maturity of 20 years or more. Out of the total amount for residential loans with a foreign exchange clause with no foreign exchange clause, over 50% has a currency in the Swiss franc. In fact, the biggest problems that citizens of such credits face are these. When it significantly increased its first Swiss franc course in 2010, the government agreed with banks three months of course fixation, but within that time the banks and debtors found no solution. By suspending the Swiss Central Bank's exchange rate, I will repeat, they have the right and the obligation to react to such a drastic distortion of the financial market. Thus, as early as 2013, interest was regulated at a level of 3.23, and in early 2015, all 7 days after the decision of the Swiss Central Bank was legally fixed at the Swiss franc rate at 6.39 a.m. on a one-year period. Therefore, during this period there is a legally regulated interest on loans with a foreign exchange clause and a fixed Swiss franc course in order to give sufficient time for banks and debtors to individually find a solution. Despite the fact that the agreements included the Ministry of Finance, and the CNB was already in January when we discussed course fixation, it proposed several models to try to resolve or come to a solution, however it did not occur. We do not want to assess whether it was the bank's brake or whether the pressure of self-organised users of these loans is such that banks are unable to accept their proposals or demands. In such a situation at a time when the provisions of the law on fixed exchange rate soon cease to apply and the Government is doing only technical work in the coming months, it is necessary that the Croatian Parliament adopt amendments and amendments to the law at the end of its term of office and ensure that most of these loans can be properly serviced. This is in the interests of debtors and also banks that are repairing their credit portfolio. I did this long introduction because, on the other day, a representative of the Croatian Banks Association proposed that the Parliament not bring these changes but to oblige participants to find a solution within 1 month. For us, this proposal is unacceptable because it delays the solution and only deepens the problem because over the past 8 months, no solution has occurred. We can understand that banks and Croatian banks are trying to find solutions that will be as cheap as possible for banks but it is the state's duty to seek solutions that will be more just and that will be in the protection of weaker partners. That is why these amendments to the law and the discussions that have been conducted for months are not directed against banks, are not aimed at their weakness. Without a stable banking system, there is no economic development and growth, but the fact is that our banks were far more successful in times of crisis than the economies that served financially. It is visible from the Croatian National Bank's report in those years. Even from the latest published days ago, from which I will present only a few facts that confirm that banks in Croatia primarily use domestic resources for their sources of financing. The report says that since 2012, the banks' deleveraging trend has been strengthened, primarily by reducing commitments towards their majority foreign owners. That's how you do it, for example. In 2014, this reduction was 9.7 billion kuna or 18.8% compared to the year before when it was 7.6%. The share of these sources of financing our banks, so from the funds of their foreign owners at the moment, is 12.8% of the total lending sources. At the same time, funding sources from mostly foreign financial institutions have increased to 6.1%. The main sources of bank financing are domestic sources of as much as 81%. That's how they are, for example. The deposits at the end of 2014 amounted to 286 billion kuna, recorded a growth of 3.3 billion kuna or 1.2% of which, on the deposits of the population, 62% and the deposits of the population at the same time account for 54% of the total financial resources of our banks. The low demand for loans and high levels of liquidity of banks therefore enabled greater deleveraging which, as I said, primarily focused on their side owners. Despite the decline in interest rates, net income from interest grew slightly in 2014 thanks to extremely low passive interest rates. I repeat, domestic deposits account for 81% of the population 62% and account for these very low passive interest rates. There is a significant increase in fees and fees, especially from card business. In 2014, banks earned 2.1 billion before tax, which is a 3-fold increase compared to the year before. At the same time, banks have been reporting losses in the credit portfolio for 6 years, the share of losses in the total credit risk exposure reached 7.2%. Surely a significant share of risk credits have loans with the currency clause especially those in the Swiss franc, so ensuring that the greater the number of these debtors come into the situation that they regularly pay off their liabilities is also in the interest of banks. Since creditors, debtors, have not found a mutually acceptable solution, that negotiations in the intervention of the Ministry of Finance did not bear fruit is logical to approach the legal solution of this problem. The proposal shall be submitted to the Swiss franc credit conversion for loans in regular payments, payments, sales and other third party payments. The proposal assumes that the conversion of a currency loan into a Swiss franc into euro currency loans means a final solution to this problem. The conversion of credit refers to loans from citizens, natural persons carrying out the activities of the free professions, craftsmen, individual traders and holders of the family holding. The law obliges banks to access the conversion of such loans but leaves the debtor at will to accept other mutually agreed solutions and let the Croatian Banking and Bank Association try to find the most favourable solution for themselves if this does not satisfy them and satisfy their debtors. The fact is that banks will suffer certain losses from such transactions but at the same time provide a greater number of regular payments, thus providing both interest income and less risk credit reservations. The law also provides for certain tax reliefs for banks because such a cost is recognised as tax-recognition expenditure, and then it will mean that one part of the burden of such transactions will also feel the state budget. The amendments to these laws regulate the process of conversion of the currency credit into the Swiss franc, the euro currency loans and we estimate that the proposal is correct, that it means a solution to this multi-annual problem, but at the same time it does not mean that people who have credit responsibilities and come into problems, regardless of what currency they can solve their problem in such a way. It is also a valuable experience for both banks and citizens to approach such contractual relations with more responsibility. Through previous debate and replicas, he tried to say that it is not sufficiently explained how much this cost will be, what impact it will have on banks and what impact it will have on the state budget. It's really hard to assess when an institution that only has available data gives different information. Already here, the deputy minister said the CNB called on January 21st when we discussed the exchange rate fixation at 6.39 a day later on January 22nd. At that time, the report also provided several models in which the problem could be solved. Among other things, one of the models is the conversion of these loans into Swiss francs into euro. So one of the models proposed by the CNB. On August 25th, a statement from the CNB said the cost could be between 5.5 billion and 6 billion kuna. Yesterday it went up to 8 billion kuna and it's really hard to estimate if you have an institution that's competent to control banks, which has all the information that's in this range of data on the potential cost. I think, however, at the time of the CNB in these eight months, it should have given a correct assessment and a proposal in which banks should be placed towards their creditors, their debtors and the fact that this is the only way out at this point that people who are over-indebted at least try to get to the point where they can properly repay their loans, and since they are long-term their problem will not fit because they will still have to pay off these loans for the next 10, 15 years. The SDP representative club accepts an amendment to both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118878	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118879	Thank you very much. So respected at one point you started or at the very beginning chronologically list what was happening to the Swiss franc, but you started with the move of the National Bank of Switzerland and how the Croatian Government reacted in a spot behind it. Then you realized that it was necessary now before the end of the term of office to pass a law that would allow the payment of the loan. He's not going to make it happen. It's just cheating. But I'm asking you where you've been so far? This is a move that should have been made a few years ago, when you came to power because the fact is that a lot of these people have experienced financial collapse and collapse. You mentioned, among other things, that your deputy minister mentioned that in his debate, you would always react the day before or on the day of the debate in the Croatian Parliament. So I ask the question that it may not be an agreed play as someone has already gone public with it, which may have been agreed on a summer vacation in Hvar when the prime minister and future governor, or the current governor, were taking summers. ... That's what I leave you with those terms. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And since it has already been established, eventually the minister himself said that fraud can be talked about, then why not talk about all the loans and those paid for. I don't see why we took those people apart. And the cost of conversion. The banks will suffer losses. He won't. Banks will only make less profit than planned. It's not a loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118880	Replica reply, Vice President of the House Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118881	This is too serious a subject to go down to the debate that you tried to impose on me. Why is it brought now? Well, because the Parliament is disbanding, which the Government cannot bring about on such matters as the regulation, and which is the law that has fixed the course at the end of the year ceases to apply. So that's why it's being brought. And this insinuation about the governor doesn't really make sense to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118882	A new replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118883	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zgrebec, you were talking about the vagueness that many have looked back, so I was the one who said that the model of being able to not know exactly what someone's loss is but what the amount of return is. So I think it should be more precise to define that the CNB gives conflicting information. In every democratic country, but in every parliamentary Committee on Finance and Budget, it would invite the governor in the Croatian Parliament to submit a report with an exact data and its signature, exactly how much it stands and on this basis we should also have parliamentary representatives and interrogated and interrogated him and had to answer every question about both the source of funds and the related cost. But you'd have to document and file a report like that. No, the Croatian Parliament as if it did not exist for the Croatian National Bank and for the Governor at all. You said there was insufficient demand for loans. It's not a dispute, but I'm only going to give you some reasons why it is. Well, first of all, because of the unacceptablely high interest rates that are the largest in Europe. So who will be in debt at such interest rates? Anyone in charge of such an interest rate as they are offered, he signs that he will not be able to repay the loan and will be in a bad situation. And now why is that? Due to high interest rates on savings that were huge at a time when they fell everywhere and were at the lowest levels. And why is that? Because the owners and those employers or chairmans of the Supervisory Board or the board of directors had the highest savings in these banks and paid such high interest to themselves Only one commissioner had five billion kuna savings in one bank. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118884	The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118885	I agree with this amendment of yours, to be exact. But I literally quoted the Croatian National Bank report, which was published the other day for the 2014 part of the bank's business report. And indeed, the fact is that it's less demand. But why is there a higher demand somewhere else? For example, in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development we have far greater demand and it has actually turned into a major investment bank especially in tourism in recent years. Before that, it was in agriculture and we never opened a serious debate here why our banks don't follow our economy in the sense that it would be logical and normal. And at the moment when they have high liquidity, what do they do? First they find their foreign owners, so they return the funds they invested here for business in Croatia because they can no longer make such interest as they had until then. And that's the only reason they do it. Therefore, whether it will achieve losses only because it will have a conversion from the Swiss franc to the euro or have losses because at one point not 37% will have risky plasmas but perhaps over 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118886	In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118887	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I think yesterday we finally solved the Raiffeisen loans that were given by Raiffeisen cooperatives or lenders in some way. Yesterday, it was said that these loans were void, that the legal work could not qualify, that it could not be strengthened and that the executions had to be stopped. What we also expect, tomorrow the amendment to the government that discussed this today will be in front of MPs and that banks, not banks, but courts will stop throwing people out on the street. It's clear that the borrowed money should be returned, but... If the Austrians wanted to make 7.8 let's 9% on interest I could somehow understand that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But from day one they wanted to take people's apartments, houses or houses, land mostly in those counties that were at sea. So now we expect the government's amendment in this form and also normal to expect the law to happen. So much for that, Raiffeisen's credits to the cooperative or loan facility, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore. As far as this other law is concerned, let's say what we call it the Swiss law. I said before in one line to Mr. Linic that I would support that law, of course I would. I also want to believe that this law will have no adverse consequences for the state, that this law is and that I want to believe in it much more than the pre-election law and that it rightly resolves the relationship between the bank and the client. In Swiss, if I'm not mistaken down the Stock Exchange or those who protested during yesterday, I saw one poster or one banner. Credit in Swiss francs buy one, pay three. And with Raiffeisen, you buy one, you pay your whole life you don't know what, two, three, four loans, and in the end, you end up without everything. I said no more Raiffeisen cooperatives, tomorrow more when the amendment is voted here. However, I also think that Mr. Linic should at least listen to the governor if we didn't want to bring him to this debate. If the governor were a native, as the prime minister called him, the Croatian banking system would not have passed in the not-so-time banking crisis in 2007, uncircumcised. Banks like I said before have been rehabilitated by the state in both the United States and Germany and the UK. These countries did everything we did until 2001 and Croatia, among other things, thanks to the governors of Rohatinski and after that, passed uncircumcised. Clearly, Croatian citizens paid the most money or money. Of the 33 Croatian banks, to be clear, I am not their agent, 11 is working with loss. We also know how these banks are privatized. Those who sold them on behalf of this country eventually became directors of these banks. And, of course, a man asks himself a question whose interest they've been protecting or representing all along? Were they representing the state interest or were they representing their own? It is clear that from the very beginning they have represented their own interest, and today, as they were supposed to do for the state, they work for their bosses. And we have to be honest and admit that they do very, very well for their bosses. And that's why they're also very, very well paid. These 150 people over the past ten years alone on bonuses have earned about a billion and 700 million kuna. I remember when maybe two years ago after this pay phone talked about it then Mr. Lalovec, the current finance minister, approached me, and said get it out, give me all that information because then my boss, Mr. Linic, is asking to see if I'm telling the truth. So, I'm going to back the law once more, but either that or the question needs to be answered, who's going to guarantee that what the CNB is not going to happen? I used to mention some consequences that might happen. Let's let it go now if the banks are going to work with profits or not, or they're going to have a much smaller profit, let's let it go now. The state budget can be left without their profit tax, it's not good, but it may not be worrying either. The growth of the budget deficit could be significant. The fall in international reserves has already mentioned a figure of 7 billion kuna or a billion euros. There may be some other negative effects, such as a possible drop in foreign investment, a drop in credit, credit ratings. But what's most important, which can't happen in any way, and I want to believe that it won't, is that it doesn't fall a course towards the euro. Once again I will say unto the Kun, I will keep as the pupil of my eye. What would be under quotes "my model" if I could simply offer that model why does the conversion in this country not take place in kuna? Why do swears as such simply not accept? Croatia is a state, Croatia has its own money, Croatia has its own National Bank, Croatia has its own institutions, government, parliament and we are also obliged to defend monetary sovereignty. The backbone of this monetary sovereignty as I somehow experience it is the Kuna. And I'm sure all debtors would simply support it. The second thing I want to say to the kuna is that we must preserve it. So now not all the people who have loans in this country find themselves in the position they're in, I'll say Swiss. What is also interesting to see some countries solve this problem. The Croatian National Bank has offered its model and I believe that for the state and security of the financial system it is better to go with a reduction in the interest rate on loans in Swiss francs to 1% than with a total conversion. It's almost impossible today, there's no governor here to discuss it. We also know of several of these under quotes "models" applied by Hungarians, Montenegrins, Poles when it comes to Swiss. What did the Hungarians offer? The cost of conversion into forint was evenly distributed between debtors, banks and the state. However, banks had to return overpaid interest to the citizens as opposed to the application of the sales rate, yet they suffered a higher burden. The government has made it possible for the rich to pay early at a privileged rate. Most of them are still waiting for that balloon to be paid off by the exchange rate talks. It was that so-called. "Karamark model." Mine certainly isn't, I said I'm up for this law. When we talk about Montenegro or Montenegrins there, only the HYPO bank gave these loans. HYPO pays for everything. In Montenegro, a recent law on the conversion of loans from Swiss francs into euro under which the cost of conversion and write down parts of the capital is borne by HYPO. So, the only bank there that's been handing out loans in Swiss. No tax relief is provided for the bank as provided for by the banks for tax reliefs in the Republic of Croatia. And we have this Polish model, half-half, the first model of the solution predicted the division of the cost of conversion in terms of 10% on the burden of the debtor and 90% on the burden of the banks. However, he was returned to the House of Commons in the Lower House of Parliament for the adoption of a 50-50 cost-to-50 model. They also applied social criteria, the conversion applies only to loans for the first apartment up to 100 square meters, i.e. houses up to 150 square meters. And the final law will be passed after the election. That's one model Mr. Linic advocated. I'm way closer to this proposal because normally it goes more on the debtors' hands. What this law does not contain, however, is the fate of those citizens who have paid off their loans and who will likely remain short sleeves afterwards. The problem of the Swiss franc has brought many people and even those from the middle layer to the edge of social endurance, not to mention the edge of existence. This law that is here before us unfortunately does not apply to all citizens, to all those who have raised those loans. On the other hand, those citizens who paid off or converted them to the euro earlier will now remain as I said short sleeves because the government considers their problem solved. What might be a far more serious problem than this is how we treat the economy? We know that housing loans are a circus, so don't take my word for the 24 billion or 25 billion they're worth in those Swiss. So 21, 22 billion are housing loans, the difference is the economy. Why don't we solve them in the same package? They should be treated in the same way, gentlemen, because I am convinced that many small entrepreneurs today are in a worse position and from the workers who work with them. For last, I said I'll vote yes. Normally, God forbid any harmful influences happen not to the banks, but to the state, then we'll all have to carry "some conjecture" as I don't know, even though we all know it's for example. The profits of these 33 banks in the Republic of Croatia are approximately equivalent to the profits of one HEP, Croatian electricity industry or I don't know THT. However, political responsibility is insufficient if God does not give rise to loans or the fall of the kuna. For the last time, I will not say once again that this law is pre-election, no matter what the pre-election time, I don't mind timing, we can remember the same Mr. Sanader as he dealt with the issue of choice by selling a partial INA there in 2007. If this is populism, and I think it's a dry need to get rid of it, then it was certainly pulsism. I should, I'll tell people one more time. Once again, those who have paid off the loans need to be resolved by entrepreneurs. It's about the stability of the monetary system. Banks, when we talk about Swiss, offered or sold better, knowing what would happen, knew about the damage that would affect Croatian citizens and owed part of the burden on themselves. It is true, in Croatia 18.94% of loans or loans are difficult or almost impossible to charge and it is terrible and it speaks about Croatia today. And someone was just asking themselves the same question why interest in the Republic of Croatia is so high I think Mr. Maric. And the state also pays 5.5% interest on its bonds issued in the US, one or that market, not 1% or 2%. And that's the point. And lastly, it is clear once again that I will support this law, but it is necessary to help people and there is no dilemma, but once again I call for the resolution of those entrepreneurs who have borrowed loans in Swiss and to get rid of it in some way or to join in helping those who have already paid off those loans because they too have borne a huge burden with which to deal with the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118888	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, tell me what law has changed over the past 6 months that two conclusions of the HDZ club regarding Raiffeisen Savings Office have been refused by the government that this is impossible under the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia to adopt those conclusions. Now, once a week before the election under the same laws, you can do anything. That's one thing. And secondly, there's no tax relief to solve the problem in Swiss. Did you see that the Tax on Profits or the Tax on Income is changed? The logical thing is if banks have certain losses they will show on the balance sheet on the spending side and will thus reduce profits and they will pay less profit tax according to the state budget. But the government didn't give any tax reliefs, which is always going through like a mantra that the government gave something. She didn't give up the government. It's the tax balance that it is. However, speaking of balance sheets, it is still unclear that we do not have a solid answer in Croatia whether the banks bought Swiss or did not buy them? And is the loss of banks a real loss or is it a loss of expected gain? Today, the minister indicated it, if this is so that the banks did not buy Swiss, but that it was only a one-sided... transaction to the banks of mothers, then in principle we have no problems in Croatia. They didn't buy the Swiss, they didn't have the expense, if they didn't have the expense, then they don't have any losses. The fact that someone has written a balance sheet can hang on to how our people tell the cat about the tail. But it's very interesting that neither we here in the Parliament nor the Croatian citizens can get a concrete answer. I've been talking about these duties in Swiss banks for several years, but I can't get the right answer to that. And that's the question of all the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118890	Time. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118891	Did they buy Swiss or not? Well, I think it would, if it were far more directed to give an answer to the former finance minister than I do. I claim that they did not buy these Swiss, so as you yourself notice, they did not have any expense and therefore I advocate something other than the conversion into the euro, but when we talk about respecting the monetary sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for the conversion that is supposed to take place in kunas. When we talk about these Raiffeisen savings in some way against this interest, and I had personal problems because of it, not because I took such a loan I don't have that credit or credit in Swiss, which doesn't mean I don't have any euro. But in a way, I fought it all. Attacked by both the people who sat in the former president's office and those who led for the former PR president. It's true, nothing has changed since the moment you were in front of the club filing the amendment. And it could have been normal for those people to meet, but what to say is better than ever, than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118892	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118893	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you have shown me hope that there will be no adverse consequences for Croatia. Unfortunately, there will be financials and others. Here, the law says that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget. That's not true. It also says that, unnecessarily, the return on overpaid will be tax-recognized to the expense of banks. It's unnecessary, it's not tax relief because it's logical that it's the cost of a bank that's tax-recognized cost, in itself. The expenditure that per se is tax-recognized expenditure. But if this tax-recognized expenditure is 8 billion kuna, then less will be paid due to the tax base of a billion and 600 million kuna of profit tax. Therefore, it will be necessary to make up for this deficit in the budget. There's no government budget surplus, but there's a deficit, and it's going to be in debt because of that or a billion 600 or 2 billion or 500 million. I agree with you that they are discriminated against and that they should include all those, including those who have broken the relationship and who have paid off and who have converted into euro already and that no one should be denied and discriminated over the new measure, but you have rightly pointed out companies. And how threatened are they? 30% of all credit ratings to companies are partly non-paymentable or totally non-payment of 32 billion kuna. Of these 32 billion non-refundable and partly non-refundable loans is a large number of loans related to the Swiss franc. And that's how we put people at risk because they work there and they get paid or they work, and they don't get paid. As for the kuna, it is finally time to get the conditions and state all future loans must be in kunas, and to create assumptions that existing loans in a year, two or three turn into kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118894	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118895	Yes, I agree with you that no one should be privileged or discriminated, especially when it comes to this law. So we should also treat the businessmen who took loans in Swiss and citizens who, for example, took loans either for apartments, or for some personal consumption. It's true, every law costs, every law has its own expense, every law will hit someone. If it brings benefits to the citizens, that's great, I want to believe that logic should also be for the state, but in this I agree that the tax profit will be expressed in the coming years in that amount minus 1.6 billion kuna. It's one cost this government needs to be honest with, it transfers to the future administration, who will be in a position to manage public finances. But it's also a fact that, apart from the state budget being left without profit taxes, those 1.6 billion banks won't get in the next 2, 3 years, that there's a growing budget deficit, that we're going to have a drop in international reserves, there's no god, and there's some other negative effects like a possible drop in foreign credit ratings investment, or maybe a drop in loans themselves. But what I'm most afraid of and I want to believe is that it won't happen, and that's the fall of the kuna course towards the euro because it would eventually hit the gentlemen who were getting loans in Swiss and all the rest, and perhaps most of all, the RH that gets the most loans from the business banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118896	Replica, Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118897	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned how and we will solve this problem, and when it comes to the part of the Croatian economy that was hit using the same model, the same credit offer, the same goods on the market. From the way Mr. Minister was manifested this morning, with all the praises of this law, which, of course, I, as a representative, am going to vote for, doesn't seem to be the case. And we have a perfectly clear and open situation that part of those who will remain in the country's transport will, regardless of the financial consequences that counterpart Maric spoke of, so the part that will not be covered by those umbrellas will have a complete basis for seeking its rights in the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, there seems to be no understanding and that the problem cannot be seen so widely. If we're going into this story, then we have to determine whether we're carrying this out as some kind of social measure, so we'd have to measure the very, very stricter criteria that it belongs to. And if we are entering because we are aware that a series of gaps have been made in Croatian society and institutions and policies that have allowed bad banking goods to be placed on the market for years, if we defend principles then principles must be equal for all. There's no equal and no equal than the others. We cannot accept that this law protects natural persons, and that at the same time we leave some of the legal persons in the deleted space, and these people and their employees are under the consequences of harmful bad loans. As a representative, I have applied to have a discussion and to clarify the circumstances under which we have found ourselves in this situation, but unfortunately this truth and answers to some questions will never be found out because it will not come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118898	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118899	Yeah, I noticed it seems to me that we have your amendment, something like that we've been getting by clubs, and there's no reason why the other clubs are putting up with them now, but I want to believe that the vast majority of parliamentary clubs, or MPs, are going to support exactly what you're proposing. I, once again, will say, many businessmen are mostly in a more difficult position both from their workers and from the citizens who work with them. Of those 25 ccs. billions of kunas worth that mass of Swiss on waste-makers somewhere around 3 or 4 billion kunas. Of those 3.4 billion kunas, not 30% as Mr. Maric says, maybe 40% is non-paymentable. So this is about about about a billion and 600 million kunas, and I talked to people about it a little while ago, with these owners who are lobbying now, who are asking us to sort of support them, or to meet them. And I want to believe that in that package and that detail that is, say, 15% of the total mass of that amount in Swiss should be included, should be taken off the agenda once. And finally, equally, citizens who have paid off their loans must not remain short sleeves and should meet them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118900	The last replica of Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Caine, you said, but we all agreed in the debate that the banks had placed a harmful product. If that is true, it should be discussed responsibility for this harmful product not only in a way that banks will suffer the consequences of financial but also have to be responsible for the damage they have done to Croatian citizens. In that sense, I think it would be easier to resolve the issue of debtors who, i.e. citizens who have already paid off their loans. And what this law, of course I support, will bring, I think that the consequences will be more positive than they can be negative because they restore confidence to the citizens, restore faith in the state, which is very important, it returns that optimism and it will be far more positive effects in our society than these financial ones that could possibly happen even though I am fully convinced that after the adoption there will be no major adverse consequences for the financial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118902	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118903	I agree with you here now, Madam Representative, absolutely. Yes, I am convinced that there will be far more positive than harmful consequences. And it's understandable that this law should be passed. I was talking about these loans as a fake product. And when we talk about responsibility, when we talk in general about this banking responsibility, I would like someone to simply do what the Austrians did when it came to those who came up with an absurd, criminal credit deal with their lenders who had no approval to work, work on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. These people from Austria who designed such an inhuman product are now in prison. I would like the Republic of Croatia to initiate certain procedures when it comes to the HYPO bank. I would also like to talk about how many billions we sold to Croatian banks and before how many tens of billions of kuna were spent in their recovery. Well, maybe it's enough to mention just the case of a business bank. The business bank here from Zagreb, probably the second or first in its economic strength on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, was renovated with 650 million marks then and sold 2001 for a incomplete 600 million marks. And then really a man asks himself a question, so how is it simply possible that every year it would be about 300 million marks of profit?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118904	We will hear more views of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS and will be presented by the respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118905	My colleagues and colleagues, I won't repeat these previous greetings, but you're all welcome. Here are actually two levels of debate, I think it can be qualified, one is very professional, so the debate is also attended by former finance ministers who are here today in the Croatian Parliament and many other people who are clearly highly professional, who have for many years and as parliamentary representatives pointed to the doing or not doing of the Croatian National Bank. But there is also a less professional debate at another level, completely and purely human with an understanding of the terrible suffering and difficulties in which many debtors in Swiss francs have found themselves. I also welcome the representatives of the Franak Association who are here today at the gallery, because the people they represent today, here and every day, in this struggle to change something actually talk about a series of fates, some are famous, some are unknown, about people who have come to the edge, who do not see the way out, about families that are precisely due to debt slavery that they have entered into not by their own guilt, although taking any obligation of course means that the client must be deeply and well addressed to all obligations. So it's about people who've been getting really sick. And the scariest threat we've heard from the banks these days is that if they pass a law like this, they'll throw people out of their apartments. And certainly in the Croatian public again several levels of debate. One that comes from a circle of people who are damaged. It doesn't matter if it's 53, 55, 60 grand in debt. Of course, these numbers should be multiplied by at least 3 times 3 family members, a much wider problem, a lot more people who are in huge difficulties. And the fact is that this is not an ideal law, this is not a law that will solve all the problems, answer all the doubts, solve all the questions, but it's certainly a law that can make life easier for the people we're talking about today. Politics, anyway, and that's why there are laws, anyway, and they're passed to support citizens, people, to help people, to solve some of their problems. Many times quoted the ruling of the Supreme Austrian Court, which ruled in favour of the debtor or in favour of the citizens against the banks or banks, clearly states that the burden of guilt was on those who had an obligation to direct citizens to possible consequences. One of the first principles taught at the Faculty of Law in the first year of Roman law is that the lack of knowledge of the law damages, so that the ignorance of certain obligations harms, but in this case it is certain that, above all, the CNB that has to care for the stability of the state, and the stability of the state means the stability of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it has to take all steps to warn the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about the possible consequences and ultimately to enter into debt slavery. I often mention for this speaker the 2010 amendment of the Constitution, including because we then further strengthened the independence of some Croatian institutions. One of these institutions was certainly the CNB, so we further strengthened the independence of the CNB through these changes. However, despite this new strength and independence, the CNB is not independent in Croatian interests and it must indeed function both as Croatian and as national. And of course I agree with all those who say that under this law we should all be equally protected. It is my opinion that the framework, the basic framework for the adoption of this law, is the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks about it, it seems to me that Article 14, that everyone before the law is equal and that is why, until this law is passed, I think we need to reconsider that provision and whether it is implemented in such a proposed law in order to remove all possibilities for any law to be brought down in the Constitutional Court. I repeat, none of the people who took the loans, no matter what they were and what they were intended for, are guilty of the situation they are in, even though we often hear remarks about who forced them to do it. However, I would like to warn you about the opinion or analysis of the Croatian Banks Association in this context where the Croatian Banks Association, speaking of the steps taken by the previous Government, is not exactly what Minister Lalovac said yesterday that there was no previous Government taking anything, it is not true. We had some agreement with the banks, signed a memorandum and then an addendum to this memo, etc., but what I want to say here is that the Croatian Banks' Association and for this intervention in 2011, and then for the intervention of the next Government, therefore the current government still says this, uses the same sentence, or the same qualification, and then talks about the measures taken in 2011, and then again says under public pressure at the beginning of the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic. So the Croatian Banks Association as if it does not understand that governments do not work exclusively and that steps are not only taken under public pressure but are taken when governments or finance ministers believe in this case that something needs to be done, that laws should be amended or that new laws should be passed. So that the governors of the CNB are not islands, the CNB is not an island outside the Croatian sea and Governor Vujčić knew all the dangers and all the problems when he took office and surely needed to establish or ask why the CNB that knew about the risks allowed the destruction of many people. We can really talk about the destruction of many people. The IMF's opinions for us at this point are not binding, equally European banks. The Croatian Bank should also not guard the high profits of banks but rather preserve the safety and lives of Croatian citizens, and we are faced with the fact that threats even come from finance ministers from neighbouring countries or the member states of the European Union, and so the Austrian finance minister threatens us in some way and says that the government's behaviour that proposes this law, and says but this is not the law that was passed in Parliament. And the law will certainly be passed in Parliament, that this is the government's behaviour against Europe. I say no. Every behaviour that threatens the lives and security of citizens is against Europe, and therefore the security of the state. This is against European behaviour and should also be said to the Austrian Minister of Finance and to all other finance ministers and the IMF and the European Bank, etc. Here is the end of our colleague and colleagues we heard that they are threatened by CNB and new taxes, so I would warn that new taxes or any taxes are not in the power of the Croatian National Bank or Governor Vujčić, but are in the power of the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the finality of the Croatian Parliament, which adopts laws governing taxes in the Republic of Croatia. As far as constitutionality is concerned, here is the constitutional values on the protection of citizens and the stability of the state, of course, that should be taken into account. I suggest that some amendments be accepted. Here's the Franak Association's proposed some amendments. I believe that some of this will be found in the final draft of the law. And here's the final, we'll support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118906	Thank you. We have two replicas. We'll hear them. First Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118907	Thank you very much. You said you'd take a break later, but then. You said Mrs. Kosor this proposal wasn't ideal. Of course he's not ideal, he's partial, he doesn't favour anyone, but individual discriminates. But that can't possibly be the reason, even though I'm a great opponent of such law making that I don't support a measure that helps a part, and that part isn't privileged. He's just not discriminated like these others who stayed. And it carries this bill of law with it a huge risk both on charges of constitutionality and on discrimination and on financial uncertainty. He's got a lot to take with him, and that's why we have to warn him about it. You said the governor was also warning of the danger of endangering the financial system. It's like the truth is he was warning now, but it's like the police minister is warning us about the danger of getting beaten up while we're going home or being robbed tonight. He's obliged to make sure that someone doesn't accidentally beat us up or rob us like the governor and the CNB is obliged to make sure that the financial system doesn't fail. It's their job. The only one who answers when the financial system fails is the Croatian National Bank and Governor. So he calls others for what I'm responsible for. He's actually calling himself. But he's already compromised the CNB financial system uncontrollably, so imagine credit activity if he has a total economic sector of 30% of non-paymentable loans. Who let that such loans may be non-refundable and be given without collateral. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] No one else but the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118908	Thank you. Second replica Mladen Novak. ... Neither colleague nor I have seen it, but if you've answered, we'll believe it, so answer the line. [[-Intruder Kosor, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118909	Yes, I answered here while my colleague Maric was talking, I picked up the tablet, but no problem. Yeah, I agree. So we are all aware of the imperfections of this law and, in that sense, the debate goes in that direction. But we're all aware I think it's a good thing, that none of the people who are barely wearing that cross right now, some of us can't even wear it, and the fact is that they're still going to pay. So, we here, sometimes it's an impression that we're going to figure out that they're free of any debt. Yeah, they'll still pay only maybe that burden will be something easier. I agree with you that the governor is obliged to take over, so I am personally surprised that at the moment when the laws are passed and when we heard that a letter was sent from the Croatian National Bank to the finance minister, that Governor Vujcic had no ambition, no desire to address the public, which means calling a press conference, standing in front of journalists and answering any questions, and possibly those of risk-related issues. But here's for sure you've read, I'd just take this opportunity to quote and quote when we talk about what someone hasn't done all these years. In this report, the Croatian Banks Association said at the end of 2011, at the time of the transition between Jadranka Kosor and Zoran Milanovic's government crossing in Croatian banks, 31 billion kunas of franc-related loans were still granted. Of which, 28.2 billion were related to the population's loans. So, knowingly, they find that loans in Swiss continue to be granted. So, at the end of 2011, no one reacts in any way. Therefore, I agree with you on possible consequences in some other segments, but [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] The Croatian Parliament must try to solve at least a few of the problems. [[Intruder Stazic: Time of colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118910	Another replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118911	Thank you. Well, dear fellow Kosor, you warned of, you even used the word of the Austrian minister's threat. Well, I wouldn't call it threats. I'd take it more as a protection of some national interest, and from that point of view, I understand it. Sometimes people go too far, but that's how they protect national interests. And what do we have on the other side? We have our governor who, when presenting his report, has said to every question where his role in this matter has been stressed that he is independent of the Croatian government. I mean, what do you say to that? And this second piece of replica actually took my colleague Maric. They warned. This is what his colleague Maric very plastically explained with this case that the police minister warns us that we can get beat up when we go home. But the Austrian court, despite the fact that the Austrian banks went out with those flyers, made such a verdict. So I don't think it's a problem beyond our borders, but it's a problem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118912	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118913	I did not even say that the problem is elsewhere but here, I just mentioned some threats that come or wave some entities to say so with both the IMF and the European Bank, etc. And I continue to argue that the behaviour of any minister of the EU member state who teaches the governments of another country and says about the government's behaviour, whichever it is, is non-European and has that Supreme Court ruling on itself, despite what you say are airmen, then we cannot be taught lessons about us being non-European. But this is the syndrome where Croatia is still on the inside and on the outside does not understand enough as a sovereign EU member of what I was talking about this morning. So we are a member of the EU, no one can give us advice but we must act so that each institution does its job. Which means that the Croatian National Bank is doing its job not as an island independent of Croatian interests but as a matter of great importance for Croatian interests such as anchors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118914	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118915	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118916	Thank you, well-respected deputy president. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here's the break. A lot has been said today, but we at the HDSSB have already said certain things in the past weeks, months, and on the board as well. But I will remind you that almost a year and a half ago, we sent in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate and the legal halting of the execution, kidnapping and occupation of Croatian citizens from one property they own and in which they live. The point is constantly moving, and today it is in 88th place even though it is worth discussing it long before. Here we were witnessing unkind events, and according to Slavonia and Baranja, in the region from which we come to drive people out of their homes, but we were on occasion to see that because of the Swiss, many people paid enormously high wars that increased them from day to day. We all know that wages have fallen, and people have been without ideas, desperate. The state and government did not find it appropriate to discuss exactly that, but also the problem that was burning, the problem of Swiss is already being solved, and even at the dispute of our judiciary, and in judicial cases, but I am glad that we are finally discussing in the Croatian Assembly a problem that is plagued by a large number of families especially in Slavonia and Baranja. But when we listen to this debate and if it were to close our eyes a few months ago, then we would probably experience this debate as we may have experienced what the game Dinamo-Asenal will look like last night or what the relationship between debtors and banks will be, or as we in the HDZB today close our eyes and see what the relationship will be in a few months for Zagreb to Slavonia and Baranja. Always in pre-election time, whether at the local level or at national level, is trying to improve what has not been done during the term of office because we all know that elections are coming, but we only think that when it comes to every person, every citizen, especially Slavonia and Baranja, should be helped even if it is in pre-election time. I also said that on the board, and here I want to repeat this and today the HDSSB Club will support this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the final draft law and the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions with the final draft law. They're both emergency procedures. Our people have big problems and it would be high time for this law to be passed, so we will provide support. But I also said that it was half a step, not a full step, because the same thing was the bank doing a new payment plan for those who might have been with one to two wars ahead of the end or looking back at already those who paid off the loans. I want to say that this relationship that was between banks and debtors we experience it as a interest rate or interest rate is the offer of services in the particular exploitation of the party i.e. The poorer position of the party in which the contract was concluded was such that we could call it interest because it was an increased principal. When we look at how the principal was increasing for all those who had credit in Swiss, then we can call it interest, because many people and families have been ruined, they have just felt one hope that we are not talking about those who lost their jobs, that we are not talking about who may have raised their hand to themselves for which this solution is too late. However, I would like to say since a good part of the loan was placed on the Croatian market just from 2005 to 2007, as today at this session, the governor who should be working with the Government on solving this problem and one serious analysis of the CNB which estimates that it will be happening in the coming months, what reflections will be on other currencies and whether we should reach out today perhaps for some other solutions that may concern some other currencies, which are used to protect the currency clause of our fellow citizens. Many people have crossed over, and I would even like to say certain judgments like the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about public notebooks who took fat money when they solemned contracts and did not warn our fellow citizens about what might happen to them in this business, and we see that they have been paying loans for years, and their principal is bigger than what they took after ten years. So, looking at a large number of people who are now between 200 and 300 thousand then it's high time to take this move. It should have been braver, I should have been more determined I would have said a few months ago but also a few years ago when others had a chance to take this move and go to the point of just converting these loans without compensation with courses that were much better a few years ago, regardless of the type, purpose and duration of the loan. Social sensitivity was also needed, and at this point social sensitivity should also be given to those who cannot serve their obligations in other currency clauses. And that's why this is exactly the legal solution that we're proposing, which is on the 88th point on the agenda, should have been put in the process a long time ago and helped our fellow citizens. However, I would also like to say that these days we are listening to the Association of Reactive Banks and who are suing these proceedings by the Croatian Government. Well, we also had the opportunity to listen to Mr. Bohatchek who really doesn't feel what's going on in the field, and it would be good if that Bank Association put him on the counter for a few days to listen to human problems, then maybe he'd be more sensitive. Is when we look at their memo, it says, "The Croatian Bank Association considers the proposed changes totally unacceptable, unwarranted and legally unsustainable." Completely unacceptable, it can only be one banker who has no sense of people and people living in a difficult situation to sign. Unwarranted, so if the mothers' banks took so much funding from the Republic of Croatia and fertilized their capital that they do not still return as well as profits to their countries, then we can say that they have earned very well. But they were mothers to these very banks, but the stepmothers to Croatian citizens had to react much more wisely before if they wanted to protect their clients and help the Croatian people. I'm sure when we talk about legal unsustainability that there's little room for banks, they'll try to do something but I think we shouldn't doubt that decision, that we need to make a decision. In the second paragraph, the amendment was sent without the necessary explanation, without the public debate and without an impact assessment. So look how many mothers cried in the Republic, how many families were destroyed, how many people you kicked out of your family homes or apartments and why no one should send you explanations. It's enough to cross the paper and feel what's going on in the Republic of Croatia. But if that capital of foreign banks were to get better fertilized somewhere else and enriched, they would have sent it somewhere further. But when we look at the activity and the passiveness of Croatian banks, when we look at the passive or at the expense of giving our citizens European interest, and on the activity when we talk about loans to give Balkan interest to borrowers, then we can say that you must be the banks of either Austrian, Italian or some others to decide where you place Croatia and Croatian citizens, whether in Europe or the Balkans. I'm sure we're Europe. Therefore, this balance in assets and liabilities should have been different, should have been interest... smaller, and it is evident that banks have earned huge funds in recent years. I am not surprised by the statement by Minister Lalovac when comparing the bonuses and salaries of individual bankers in the Republic of Croatia with respected doctors who are also doing their job. When you see that the bankers have made significant incomes, and the wages and bonuses that are unimaginable, when one banker achieves the annual income of the Malta not as much as all parliamentary representatives in these benches or a few governments, then you must surely put your finger on us and tell the gentlemen of the banking sector you have drawn funds from the family economy from the population but have not invested in greenfield investments in the Republic of Croatia. And when we look at what has been invested in the Republic of Croatia in the past 20 years, then we see that foreign companies, foreign banks have just invested not in new production and greenfield investments but watched as in trade, how in some other segments to place their products and to impoverish Croatian people. Therefore, what the banks were doing together with the banks was not good, but I would also like to say that, during the period 2003-2014, interest on Swiss was increased and we already have the Supreme Court rulings concerning that period. The estimate is that banks have been incometing nearly 3 billion kuna more due to an illegal increase in interest. This is a question that must also be asked after this speaker just as in all interest related to the Swiss is charged the difference in the exchange rate and it is probably according to our estimates of an additional 2 billion kuna on the remaining illegally charged part of the interest only on the difference of the course in the last year. So a total of 5 billion kunas on which the state charged its billion kunas about taxes. And these three billion advances are proof that banks will not have any expense at all because of the release of court proceedings and the costs incurred in this time. But I also want to look back at what they're about to see for the next few years, which is tax relief, and it's nothing more than a return to the banks of what the state has charged. We in the HDSSB say that the government took half a step, could have taken a full step and, unlike those 20s and some thousand borrowers, meant between 53s and 70s as much as we had borrowers for the loans paid, also reacted and looked back at the banks to make the subscription of these subscriptions in the last years. Because I repeat the interest rate again was a matter of not one quality business relationship between banks i.e. banks. A believer and a debtor. Therefore, this is a semi-permanent solution, Mr. Deputy Minister, because if it were permanent, it would also refer to the loans that have been returned, over the past 10, 15 years, because some have taken a loan into the euro and returned it to Switzerland but have paid the amount of the credit paid right with that loan refinancing. Well, we have a lot of friends and colleagues who in the past few years have thus returned loans, tried to free themselves from debt slavery. Because even as I have one of my colleagues says every day when I was passing by the bank and I watched a course one day as a man can turn his head so every day I have to go past that window and start turning my head from the window because I just couldn't watch every day change the course because I know what it brings to me and my family. So this is a semi-sustainable solution. The solution and solution were to cover all those who paid for loans, loans in francs, subscriptions in the past years because the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia were in a worse position. I believe that this model will be painted on neighbouring countries, above all I think of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean Macedonia and some countries in the neighborhood. But what am I saying? We at the HDSSB feel the best problem in Slavonia and Baranja. Because what happened? Most people in Slavonia and Baranja wanted to borrow and wanted to raise certain amounts but unfortunately paid, one third of the salary did not allow them to raise loans in euro because they had less war in Switzerland, at least it seemed at that point. And the people who are over-indebted, the overburdened, they've been raising these loans in Swiss, but it's obvious now that they're not even getting paid, and they haven't been touched in the last few years. Therefore, the most affected are the people in Slavonia and Baranja and anyone who would not raise their hand in the Croatian Parliament and for this half solution would be against their citizens, citizens who are in a difficult situation and cannot serve their obligations. I want to look back on the National Bank. Why we do not have days on the table with this bill of law analysis of the Croatian National Bank on the possible effects of the application of these two laws on the monetary system but also on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But in the Croatian National Bank reports over the past years, we have expected proposals and suggestions just as much as the Croatian Parliament, and also the Croatian Government, because it was logical that the governor not to raise credits in Swiss but to give suggestions because who would know better than the governor what would happen in the macroeconomic environment because it is precisely why it is very, very well paid than he. However, I would also like to express my concern about what will happen to us in the coming year and with our state and with the State's cash register because in the third month, as a parliamentary representative, he himself asked the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Finance how much the Republic of Croatia owes us with currencies, deadlines and who are our borrowers. Well, that seems to be the hardest question for the Republic of Croatia. We don't seem to know how much we owe, what currency and what parties we're in. I appeal once again to the Ministry of Finance and from this pay phone, give me that answer after 6 months because I think it is important and I think that in these months we could do good jobs for the Republic of Croatia and that means refinance existing commitments while on the capital market, I think at the world level of cheap interest rates. But what to say when your closest neighbor comes and says Kresso in 2009, I raised 48 thousand euros i.e. At the time of the 77,000 Swiss, today I have 66,000 Swiss but also 59 thousand and 558 euros. So almost 12,000 euros has more credits and he has served his obligations neatly all these years because he and his wife work in state institutions, but with the help of their parents, they have financed credit rates and they have after six years 12 thousand euros more loans. Therefore, such a law will help these people, but we must also help those who have closed the loan, and they have just raised it in another currency to bridge that time, to get out of debt slavery. But it is evident that banks resisted the closure of loans because it is clear that the bankers will no longer be able to find sheep in a wider environment. So who's going to take more loans when they're a banking euribor, and that's what the minister was talking about today unforeseeable, they're playing out on the market a little bit and you see problems. Therefore, there is a sense of legal uncertainty, not legal uncertainty, of what the bankers say. Croatia is a very safe and stable state in which they have made significant revenue in the past years, but even if they have not withdrawn profits in their countries and their queens is precisely the reason that nowhere in the environment with such a risk assessment they have not been able to earn all that they have invested in the past years. So this law will help I'd tell the banks about all these convictions. Banks will be released for the next three years and will not feel it significantly, but there are also some banks in Croatia that are well secured because we know that some are sold in the meantime and some funds will also be charged. But I want to say that the struggle in the past months and years has been significant in these benches, and I want to thank the Franak Association. Therefore, all those who wish to solve their problems must join together, must show and point to injustice, to problems, because it is the only way we can work things out together because we can see by the slowness of the Croatian judiciary that they have not been able to solve this problem. But we also see from what this proposal comes at the end of the term that this government is too late because many people unfortunately have been killed in these months. Therefore, the HDSSB club will support this proposal but we expected a full step rather than a half-step under the influence of foreign banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118917	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118918	Thank you very much. My friend Bubalo, if I'd listened to the rest of your exposure, I wouldn't have raised my replica board, but I was just about to talk about what you said at the end, and that's timing. So the Franak Association and a series of other organizations that later joined together, and in fact Franak has been representative for people in Swiss francs, for years they've been talking about this problem. That is why it can be accused to the government in some way that it has done this for pre-election purposes. I would be much happier if immediately at the beginning of the term of office recognized this problem of Swiss francs and that in this way or some other way, as you say is half-way or all solved. Namely, if it is a fraud and it is obviously a fraud, theft and robbery of Croatian citizens, which is punishable under the law. In that case, those who have paid off credit in Swiss francs have been deceived, and they too have the right to the same conditions as we will now vote for this constructive and good legislative proposal. So they've been deceived, and in that group of 73,000 debtors who took out a loan in francs and many have paid him back with a lot of trouble. They didn't make it easy just to pay off those loans in francs. So, really, this law is as you say half-breed, let's say some triple-freaked I would say, it's not half-breed, but there's a number of people left in loans, and the smaller part closed those loans or paid off. And then another thing, so common sense, logic, I am not an economist, but it is clear that someone designed a plan to rob Croatian citizens, to bring Croatian citizens and the Croatian state into debt slavery and to manage them this way. So there are mechanisms. And that's why the banks now, and we have a Croatian postal bank, so let's take a look, let's just look at the salaries of officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118919	Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118920	What kind of pay traffic are they in? Why not through the Croatian Post Bank? This government itself does not work... its banks but through other banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118921	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118922	Thank you very much. We in HDSSB are constructive and we have been working through proposals that we have sent over the past year and a half or that we have proposed on our... desks or on some round tables to point to a huge problem, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. This is what I would say is a f-scene solution because you just said well, not half what I said and this replica of yours is justified, not half-sex, but g-sy because only citizens who had credit in Swiss are covered. But you need to do any more courage, I'd say a ‘ski step’ and help all those who paid off the loans. So I'm still going to say that the government was doing something small, and that was fixing course 6.39 or fixing interest 3.23 but that was not enough. This step was supposed to be much braver, much more determined, much faster, but we were very much in the HDSSB club this sentence of debt slavery tickles and bothers, and this is that the governments as the HDZ or SDPs were being replaced, were in charge of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately little or almost nothing invested in Slavonia and Baranja, which is what we will deal with specifically in the coming months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118923	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118924	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bubalo, you mentioned in your presentation Mr. Bohaček, who represented banks in public in this case. He is only an exponent of a professional philosophy of approach, a professional policy such as the government in banks in general, and especially in banks on the Croatian market of a philosophy allowed by Croatian politics all these years. And although this law that we will of course support has its own indetermination and points that should be corrected and complemented in order to be functional and fair and non-discriminatory yet one thing should be highlighted, which is that this law is actually one of the precedents in Croatian politics. One of the precedents in the work of this Parliament, one of the precedents in the work of Croatian governments. This is a law that doesn't take its pants off in front of big capital, this is a law that doesn't fear powerful centers. This is a law that doesn't fear reaction I'd say at least not too afraid of the reactions of those who are much fatter and stronger than us. And this is a law that pursues the protection of the interests of Croatian citizens and the correction of Croatian policy failures over the past years. That's why I think we should stand out of this law as a policy, and the message to the executive and government of Mr. Deputy Minister and Minister Lalovac that all amendments that have been made to end this law and that without discrimination, all the users of credit in Swiss will be protected, that these amendments, regardless of who they come from, accept that once as a political scene in Croatia, we rise above a very low level that has so far ruled and that as a responsible policy in all parties, we show our efforts to protect the national interest, the sovereignty of this state because this is an act of sovereign state. and the interest of our citizens. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118925	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118926	Me and B, you're stuck on B. So we in Slavonia and Baranja are enticing on B. Says the Croatian Association of Banks, Croatian Babarog Association. We're stuck on B, too. So they fear what will happen to Croatia and where Croatia and what the banking sector will do against Croatia. And we see what they've taken from our citizens in recent years. I'm sorry that some have lost their lives or raised their hands to themselves, unfortunately in the past years, because of fatigue and exhaustion. But they must have encouraged many to move away from us. Comrade Baranovic, I would agree with you that we need to cover everything, including those who have returned their loans. But we must show stability and strength and that Croatia is not afraid of any moves, because we are doing this in good faith, in the faith that we are helping many families living in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118927	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118928	Thank you. You know what's not clear to me in this story since an economy should be some exact science man would expect when laws like this are passed that will be won, that some exact numbers will be better present. So there are no exact numbers here from the very beginning of the story to the present in any form. So neither of the amounts, nor of the numbers, nor of the structure, nor of the effects. We didn't even know about the CNB in the end whether the Swiss franc ever existed, or the effects of direct consequences on the state budget that would follow. So it's amazing that laws that should be dealt exclusively with with the number of barats with a lot of words, and with very few numbers not only in this proposed material but also the CNB so baratate banks, so all of us are actually fluctuating about some thesis instead of that at least the promoter probably can't, although it's sad that the proposer can't attach on several sides any analysis that doesn't exist here either, as otherwise there's no more than most of it from the economy being brought into the Croatian Assembly, which honestly to me is a bit odd. On the other hand, we are talking about the good role of the CNB, which is certainly negative in this crisis as well as numerous previous and current topics. I'd like to remind you of the changes... as of the end of 2013, when the idea of being monitored from the HNB Bilten annual status was, the average rate of interest per household loan and that, compared to them, one third or one half of them would be able to raise the amount of these loans to the pressure of the CNB was changed to so on. weighted interest rates published by the CNB twice a year by so-called credit products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Suddenly, these rates were significantly higher than those of the HNB in its bulletins as average rates of residential loans in the Republic of Croatia. Interesting. So there's actually the CNB on one broad base that damaged the users of the credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118929	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118930	Thank you very much to my colleague Đurović. Well, we all believed in these benches today that exact figures would appear, we expected from the Croatian National Bank because they have all the reports and know about the currency risks that exist in the Republic of Croatia. But I'll say the same thing when it was a sudden change of course that I went into the structure of the Croatian National Bank's report myself and that I found that 23 billion kuna figure, that there was credit in Swiss. And I'm sure I've seen if there is, therefore, in activity and passive whether there's some balance, etc. However, according to today's report by the Croatian National Bank, it was also about protecting currency risk by banks and they were able to control it every day as they can today. But what I'm trying to say is, when we're watching that bulletin, it makes sense that the governor and his team are doing two jobs. One is to be statisticians, and the other is to be co-creators of politics. For the same salary they only did one job, which is that they were statisticians, were not co-creators, they did not clearly warn and ban certain products in the Republic of Croatia that were harmful. We have this year also passed the Law on tight interest rates where we restricted the management of that robbery, because their best product was minus the current account. Interests have been picked up anywhere near Europe and the EU cannot be picked up but in Croatia. Therefore, we are not talking about the number of cards that have twice the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it was going to throw Croatia into debt slavery. But those who were paid to warn did not ring the alarm bell or were co-creators.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118931	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118932	Thank you very much. We first heard here that this was a permanent solution, and then you went with the the thesis that it was a semi-sustainable solution. I said in response to this permanent solution unfortunately not, but it will remain a permanent stain, and I can also tell you that this is not even a semi-permanent solution. Because no matter how much I support a temporary intervention measure, this solution is a solution that carries with it a latent danger. Regardless of the conversion of credit into euro each credit user who has a currency clause carries a can of gasoline with him and walks until the day of payment of the loan with that can of gasoline. It's such an unpredictable danger. Every morning wake up and first instead of breakfast watch what course it is. And yet, regardless of all these consequences that have arisen, there is still no measure that has banned the currency clause in a currency in which there is no source of funds. More specifically, ban any currency clauses other than the euro bonding. Is there any solution to the People's Bank or anyone else to this day? It doesn't exist. We don't even learn from such devastating mistakes. They can still be linked in some other currencies to approved loans. The Franak Association is a desperate association with lasting consequences. And when this law is applied, if their damages are paid back, they remain. The money will be partially satisfied, and what about the sufferings that they've been going through for 10 years, what about families, what about kids who've been going through all this? Who's gonna make it up to you? Those who have a few dozen million things abroad and the state can't even get ahold of whether it's taxed. And it's forbidden to give a statement whether tax is paid on it or not. But it should have been used to compensate for the deficit from other credit ratings, and all of this was compensated for loans and interest rates and exchange rate calculations to the population. The population paid the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118933	Time, buddy. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118934	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric, well, I think this is a semi-permanent solution because I'm saying it didn't cover everyone that needed it. But that is why the proposal proposed by the HDSSB a year and a half ago is also about people who are in a difficult position not only with loans in Swiss but also with the euro and all other credit arrangements relating to the first real estate and real estate they live in. Therefore, it was just to be the goal of liberating debt slavery. Because what you said is they walk with a can of gasoline, and they walk. But not only is it important to release debt slavery, but it is also important to create new jobs for those who have loans and today they are out of work and cannot serve their obligations. However, the wish of all of us in the Croatian Parliament as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as everyone works for the kuna is logical that we do not have currency clauses and that our credit be in kunas as well as pay. Or one day if we move to the euro that it refers to exactly the euro. Then we'll know that we're balanced, then we'll know that we have the opportunity to return the principal as we're in charge, not that it's the interest rate. When we talk about the French Association, they did their job well, and I'm sure they'll keep doing it because this is half a solution, but many of them from that association and many people and many families are left with lasting consequences. I'm sure he won't leave it to the bankers, and I'm especially afraid of those who haven't paid their taxes. But we also know that Al Capone is a dowry, so I believe those who haven't paid their taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118935	And Nadica Jelash, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118936	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you presented an example from your Slavonia where you said the banks approved or placed loans and clients that they knew in advance were actually credit-inability, so they were over-indebted and over-loaded. In fact, the example is very obvious, very obvious that banks in this insatiable greed for profit, for money actually also placed credit-incompetent borrowers, and that no one can say that it is absolutely not their risk. In addition, taking into account the fact that the bankers were urging those customers who, due to the height of the war, could not be in charge of the euro to be in debt in Swiss because at that moment, the debt in Swiss was simply more favourable and, at the same time, they were taking into account the fact that they were overcoming the negative foreign debt in Swiss and thus covering up those high potential risks of debt in Swiss while at the same time being inescapable of their risks, it is clear that, in this business relationship between the bank and the client, they were more than responsible to the same bank itself. And of course CNB as a financial sector regulator in Croatia. So, at that point, the bank's responsibility refused to be perceived, and now, of course, it's coming back to them. Because if a client is deluded into a situation that he can't repay the debt then it stops being just a debt problem, it actually becomes a trustee's problem at that point. In fact, we all know very well that at the moment the banks in Croatia already have about 18%, 19% of the loans they cannot charge. So this problem, that millstone around the neck, is increasing every day. Practically, right now, the banks can't charge every fifth of their loans. This was to be taken into account and there is the responsibility of the banks, and I repeat the Croatian National Bank as regulator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118937	Kresimir Bubalo's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118938	Well, you're right, you're a colleague, Jelash, with these very legal solutions, I'd say it's helping banks, and because of those judgments, and because of everything they've done in the past years, but it's certain that clients will be easier to serve all the obligations, that there will be consumption, that they will wrap up and run that wheel that started and with income tax exemptions. I'll also repeat that the good part of the parties related to Swiss loans was strained. Why? That's why I repeat because when people were making payment plans at that time, especially people in Slavonia and Baranja, they submitted loans in Switzerland and wars for the desired capital and in the euro they did not. Thus, that part is highly sensitive, and that part right now refers to those in the most difficult situation. Bankers did cross over, they were also overrisking, but I often like to call and call public notebooks and all those who charge fatly for the soloization of the contract and didn't warn people about what could happen to them with the currency clause, which could happen to them in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118939	On behalf of OraH representative club colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118940	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State, and I will begin my debate with a quote "And this is a pure populist proposal" quoted by my colleague, Pedje Grbin, in October 2012 on the proposal of the Labour Club on the solution to this problem. Would you like me to quote the Prime Minister? "And this is pure pulsism." Any proposal that came from my club back then and generally from the opposition. Well, I'm also saying with full responsibility, this is really pure pulsism. Pure populism that the citizens will benefit from, and that is why we will support it. But honestly, a solution could be where and where better quality, where and where better. Another reason why I think this is populism is the very material that we've got. I agree with my colleague here, I don't know right now, someone spoke from the predecessors, but we basically didn't get a quality analysis as a supportive material at all. We don't have any real elements based on which we're making a decision on which to raise our hand and we're going to raise it all up, or we're going to give it our vote. If this were to be said seriously prepared material other than these amendments between the Franak Association and the others we will all support, then there would be an answer inside to all these threats or warnings that the governor of the Croatian National Bank states. In that sense, I disagree with my colleague Maric, who pointed out that there are some elements that do not belong in it, even though I think this material should be far more extensive and thorough that we can make some quality decision based on it. It was here, I mentioned the governor of the Croatian National Bank, then I can't, I can't resist not using another quote, a quote relating to the 2013 report, a report by the Croatian National Bank, quoting my debate "From 1.7.2013, the governor of the CNB is the most paid civil servant, more paid than both the president of the state and the prime minister. He's got a salary of 34 grand and some kuna net. According to these same media reports, with a paid cost of nearly half a million kuna, more than 120 days remained in 2013 alone, which is about 1/3. He was in America three times, four times in Asia, five times in London, went all over Europe." Should this man be expected to have an understanding of those affected by this law, or credit in Swiss francs? Now, we have that "fun" story, we have the story of the media bickering, the attack of the finance ministers of the Croatian National Bank and our prime minister. But I can't help but recall the time before the governor became governor, that we were warning from the opposition that he was sitting in the same leadership of the Croatian National Bank, that he was the right hand of Mr Rohatinski, who was receiving great awards from the world's banking associations. So they did not reward him for protecting the citizens of Croatia or protecting national interests, they rewarded him because he served them well. And we as the last suckers clapped, we were proud of it, it was the national pride, we have the man who was rewarded by the World Bank, whom they called a top expert. A top expert but for what? To tear the skin out to your own people, very good. Now this can already go into what I liked earlier in the replica, the girdle of financial powers not only of our locals, these are in the ranks of some of the officers in the financial sector, but they are the main ones up there sure as hell having some sort of edge, and among other things, no one is going to convince me that there's no ropes and political elites. Is that some conspiracy theory? It's the easiest to label these are conspiracy theories, so now automation is unserious. However, all these consequences that occur to citizens are so irrelevant whether they are a conspiracy theory, whether they are a fruit of imagination, but what are the consequences. Now let me get back a little bit. One of the colleagues mentioned some of these consequences, some of these consequences are taking their own life, some of these consequences are family breakdowns, staying without the only real estate. This government when it came to power, when it came to its position it knew all these problems. Before the parliamentary elections in 2011, we warned, so before these elections we warned everyone about this. What's it been waiting for so far? Isn't that the ultimate form of hypocrisy? Wait until now and now before the elections tell us we're saving the citizens, this way we'll make it possible to pay off the loan. Oh, this is just a hypocrisy. We had a chance to listen to the minister today as the court ruled in Austria, but we had some more opportunities to hear in the Parliament. We had heard the chairman of the Legislative Committee if I wasn't mistaken, a colleague of Ingrid's who's here and now sitting here who warned the bodies of the persecution they heard, it's about fraud. You're all part of the same coalition, even as many as the same party, for four years you've had insight into at least what we're counting on since you've been in power, although you've probably been seriously preparing and while you've been still in opposition, is there any further warning now? What kept you from doing something? Today it is here and indeed of all probably mentioned a word of deception. I don't think anyone's doubting that this is really about the big con in which the CNB played its part. But what confused me was that I replicated my colleague Linic that we were putting into that same story some kind of social category. In what sense is the social category? We need to protect each other and not the other. Some of them bought yachts, so where were the responsibilities of both the CNB and these banks if they gave someone credit for something they knew was impossible to repay. I think it's unthinkable to me. On the other hand, the first real estate is mentioned. A colleague of Vuljanić and I sat together upstairs when he was called by a colleague at the beginning of this debate, called him his acquaintance and told him his case. A daughter who was young, successful in getting her first job, took out a loan and bought an apartment. For eight years, she paid off that apartment, and after eight years, unfortunately, she couldn't take it anymore. She returned that apartment to her 40,000 euros in debt. Her dad or acquaintance from a colleague Vuljanic sells his apartment to settle the bank, the remaining loan. Both his daughter and dad are moving in with his dad. We can talk about the social state and the social element here. But be careful when we say that? A girl spent eight years paying off a loan, then all this happened, and now we're talking about it and we're talking about it the way we found a way to save our builders. Where the hell have we been? Justice is soon or reaching. Sometimes it's pointless. What does justice mean if she comes when someone's an ad act? In any case, we will support this proposal, and we will support normally all amendments as I have already said, and I hope that you will at least consider them to the extent that you consider it acceptable, to be included in the bill. And I think the law really has room for additional repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118941	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118942	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you said I said there was something wrong with the bill. I'll correct you a little bit, I didn't say it wasn't a place, but it was unnecessarily written because if you say the effect of the conversion resulting from the expense of the trustee's business books, it's tax-recognition expenditure. If this didn't write the same effect of conversion, it would be a tax-recognized expense in itself, who had any understanding of finance. It's not to be written, it's not to be determined by law. It is known what is tax-recognition expenditure, and it is particularly prescribed if something is not tax-recognized or tax-relievable, but this is not tax-relievable. It's just a question of what it was when it was income, whether it was a tax base or maybe it was a profit over a derivative shown as a loss, so tax payments were avoided. There is the Ministry of Finance's task to examine this so that we don't use the deduction now, the reduction of the tax base, and that wasn't before an increase in the tax base. As for your comment on the governor's roads, you listed everything but here he was recently in Algeria, I can understand both America and Asia and everywhere but at the time of this biggest crisis in Algeria, I don't know what there is to do about the governor of the Croatian National Bank. I also agree with demagogy and hypocrisy of behavior and government. Here is an example, the Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 was not accepted in the Croatian Parliament and already 22.1.2012. immediately this government debated again in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the same report but was not accepted because of the case of the Swiss franc and everything else. So it was accepted unanimously that report... in the Croatian Parliament and now this same governor is being criticised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118943	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118944	A colleague, Maric, may have agreed on Hvar in the meantime, and this has led to this change. And that's what you said at the beginning that I called you conditionally, because that's what you mean, but this is a reason why the law is passed. The fact is that we here most of us are not, or economists or financial experts, and in the very part of the argument that we should support or not, I think that even more should stand for such things that are actually being passed on in the provisions of some laws. Because it's not necessary that we all know exactly all the laws and it's impossible, it's certainly impossible. So in that context, I think this is supposed to be, that it's not from the worse to stand and this part that you mentioned. But in any case, there should have been some thorough explanation of all those allegations mentioned by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, what will happen to us, or what might happen to us, starting with not knowing the legal constraint, the financial instability of the course, I don't know what he didn't mention there, but all of this had to be some analytical response prepared by the Government to know. And now, honestly, the debate based on what we read in some newspaper or in some media and on the impressions we received from the debate, I don't know about the road to Algeria, you should have checked it out, maybe it was the real reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118945	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118946	Thank you. Comrade Novak, isn't that what it looks like to you in view of some legal provisions when three or more legal or physical persons are joined into a criminally organized enterprise just like that? So the operation of banks and the Swiss franc course, loans in Swiss francs led to dozens of people being killed, so they committed suicide. That tens of thousands of young Croats who cannot get money to repay such loans have moved abroad. That there are over 300 thousand blocked accounts in Croatia, that bankers share bonuses on these very minuses, on those minuses of our citizens. Is that all one criminal enterprise? It is. This fraud should go not only to pass this law but also to file criminal charges for such action, it is indeed an organised and united criminal act against the Croatian state and the people. And let them be happy that we are only on this and on this one even though Marko arrived late in Kosovo, it should have been immediately if it wasn't for the old HDZ government that brought it, it should have brought these SDPs as they say it is. Unfortunately not. Here we are now, and we agree, and even now, there are 55 thousand 800 people who are still returning these loans, so at least let us help them and help them because they were indeed robbed and brought into a humiliating position in relation to loans in euros and kunas. And not only that, but the interest rate in the banks of these banks operating in Croatia is three times less than in the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? It's a real robbery. In other words, you can't call it that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118947	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118948	Look, buddy, not so long ago, I ran into a guy with a professor. Cregar commented on that, on the expression of conventional wisdom. Conventional wisdom, the author is a Nobel Prize winner from financial circles, economics, so I hope that no one is going to rub on my nose right now that I'm taking something that doesn't belong to me. I quote, who said that conventional wisdom is when someone who has the authority of the profession comes to you and doesn't object, but doesn't check. It's unproven and it's simply taken as healthy for granted. That's exactly what you're pointing at. And when we say, you said a criminal enterprise, I told the band of financial powers and politics, all together then gets the label, it's sick minds that spread conspiracy theories and actually passes this other story, conventional wisdom. Who will challenge the authority of one manager, or you're right, or one Rohatinski who gets the World Bank Prize, whoever dares to put a question mark on one, any of his thesis. It's the absurd thing that can sell us any fog they want and say that's what the distinguished expert said. You can imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118949	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118950	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Novak, in your presentation, you have asked the question of why you have been waiting so far, you have brought a series of charges against the CNB and the banks with which I fully agree. And I'm asking you why we're not discussing why we're waiting right now. Namely, you are also a signator of the initiative to put the debate on the Parliament's agenda or to set up an investigative committee to determine who is guilty, who is responsible for this huge damage done to the Croatian people. So I think we should talk about it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118951	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118952	Okay, this is a question that we both know the answer to and more goes into the category of rhetorical issues, but you know my favorite when I hear members of the government and even the prime minister himself and where your proposals are and then we come up with suggestions and then they cancel them out against the law. Yeah, they're throwing it in the basket. They're waiting to win office values in the back drawer. So much for the relationship. But then the prime minister cuts off the tape somewhere and goes outside and then says what the opposition has offered so far. And then you offer a proposal so here it stands for two years, waiting, sour. You don't even get a chance to say it. They once gave us a chance, so they put us six laws from 18 hours away so we could discuss it. With who, alone with you? So much for the seriousness and acceptance of this House as some kind of institution that should be the highest in this country. But it's also a reflection of the citizens, how you experience these citizens. And this same thing, this delay, this hypocrisy, it's the same reflection as you people are experiencing. If it wasn't for the election, I guarantee this bill wouldn't be on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118953	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118954	My colleague Novak, you presented the example that really touched me and that refers to the good part of the people who returned their loans, about selling one apartment, the other apartment, and going to their parents. The family certainly did not sell an apartment below the market price, sold it at fair and real price. I want to read you the last paragraph signed by Mr. Bohaček. It raises the issue of constitutionality of the proposed solution. ... one party contracted to deal with the loss, so mutatis mutandis, selling goods below the purchase price, resulting in an expropriation of its assets without the established existence of general interest in the exemption without any compensation. So I'm asking him on this example whether it was expropriation or interest, and right through the Swiss, the banks were loaning people, and they found themselves in a situation like you just apologized. And then the Croatian Bank Association is still looking for explanations. Well, if they had seen that family, if they had seen them sell one apartment and another apartment and come back to his parents, then they would have seen what Croatian reality was and that was a sign to the Croatian government that they should have made this move much earlier. But I'm stressing, this is half the step that solves those problems that people have that are being paid off, but not this problem that you fellow Novak just pointed out, which is that people have sold two apartments, come out of debt slavery, they're actually still paying for one piece. Therefore, it is a Croatian reality, and therefore it was necessary to deal with exactly those who tried to get out of debt slavery and pay off or pay off the credit arrangement in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118955	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118956	Well, look, buddy, I don't agree with you at all. You resent your colleagues, my colleagues, I'm building on this, Mr. Bohatchek, for this answer. I don't blame him. He works in the interest of the banks, he's their mercenary. Well, it's like you resent what he gave to Dinam yesterday. Well, that's his job. But the problem is what the CNB was doing, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia was doing, that's the problem. I don't blame the Austrian minister who sent the letter. Okay, man overstepped, overstepped, a little out of line, not a little bit but a lot, but it protects national interests. And what did we do? We're waiting for the election to tell our citizens what we think of you, you're the most intrusive in this world, the ones who stayed and survived. That's the sad part. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right, that's right. This is really populism on my part that I'm talking about now, and it wasn't populism in 2012 when on a proposal like this, when you were making a fuss, it was populism. Sad, sad. .../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118957	Comrade Novak, don't make a fuss out of the bench. ... On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118958	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the amendment and addition of the Consumer Credit Act and credit institutions. The fact is that even when the Swiss franc was placed on the market, not only in 2004, it was in circulation before but not in some quantities, amounts and figures that significantly influenced it. He was completely legitimate. The facts are also so that as the minister in the introduction said by using instruments, derivatives,... he could be used and placed. But then there's that fact called market disturbance. The market disturbance that took place in 2007, started in 2008, in Europe, not so much, because the financial system was not related to all derivatives and instruments, which led to a disturbance on the financial system in the world. And then all the states, democratic states, reacted in a way that saved financial systems, saved banks by means of the budget of these citizens. Why? To maintain both the monetary and financial system, but also the rule of law and the economy that collapsed. We have been bypassed in part by the measures and work of the Croatian National Bank, partly because our financial institutions, our banks were not linked to such deformities as were happening on the world market. Speaking of credits in the Swiss franc, speaking of the Swiss franc as currency, there was a disturbance. It is called 80% currencyivity, the oscillation of the course in the last 10 years with 4.35 lowest to 7.8 highest compared to Croatian kuna. And this is the moment especially this last moment when 30% of the growth was due to be further reacted and in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia first frozen the course in January at 6.39 and let's not forget the 3.23 Consumer Credit Act we fixed interest following what happens with the Swiss franc. So it was constantly reacting right when there were major disturbances, the moment it grew when we fixed it to 6.39. It started with negotiations, talks and with the Association "Franak" which is here today at the gallery and with the CNB and with the Croatian Banking Association, trying to find a common solution. Why? Every democratic government, and we have a democratic government talking, negotiating, negotiating, sitting, seeking a solution. In the Croatian Parliament, too, we had a thematic session where everyone could present their views and facts, we reached conclusions and on the agenda is the same debate on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the Croatian Parliament. Since the agreements have been delayed, i.e. that the banks did not actually come up with concrete quality proposals, but went with partial solutions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the responsible Government must propose solutions that are concrete, clear and long-term, solutions that ensure poor planning and stability of those who took loans in Swiss francs, but stability and justice to all those who took loans in euro and Croatian kunas. Because let's not forget at the time when loans were released in Swiss francs on the Croatian market, many who took in euros and kunas were hiding because they were uncomfortable, they couldn't justify why they took more expensive loans because they were more attractive. And most banks used that attractiveness, the advantage of taking their position on the market. And that's the period in 2005, when more than 90% of the Swiss franc loans were placed. The warnings that always exist today are that the eurobor is at the lowest level. Well, when the dollar was at the lowest level, and even the Swiss franc was at the lowest level, even the warnings of today's governor at that time the vice governor said it was a certain risk, but no one said it would grow 50, 60, 70%. It's a market disturbance and that's why this law is not populism or hypocrisy. This law is the need to pass, and all the measures we've done so far have been reactions to the moments when this disorder has been happening bigger and bigger. So what do we need now? Leave another 5 months to comply with a certain law or make a solution that is permanent. And I repeat once again to those who have loans in euros and kunas. Banks are specific entities of other economic operators and the essential mission is essentially to keep the money of all citizens and economic and other entities and to be developed with these funds, and only then do the banks that make profits. They must make profits, but not on burden and savings, not on the burden of citizens and economies taking credit for development, to solve their housing problems. I said they used the banks' attractiveness to take up space on the market. What led to the issue of the Swiss franc and the profitability of banks, which the minister quoted as the 2011 Bilten said, was that banks did not comply with the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is what is important, and that is essentially the protection of the currency clause against losses and not profits. Any arbitration or not arbitration, this is a law that needs to be passed, this is a law that balances credit default but preserves what is important market, ensures that market law, the price of credit, is uniform for those who use it and prevents citizens from entering the debt slavery they have entered. There was no math debate about it. How is there no math? Well, enough is one math average is 82 000 euros in credit but it's easier to count if it's a loan of 100,000 Swiss francs, it was 62,000 euros in 2006 at the time, today the principal is 72,000 euros. It's quite clear that it's unsustainable, that it's not normal. And no matter how many bankers today swear to some kind of rights and market each market is still regulated. There is no market in which everything is said as the offer and demand, and this offer sets out the demand. Offering and demand that but when there is a disturbance, when there are extremes then there are regulators and there is a state that is responsible for its citizens, according to its economy, in the future to react, to put it in certain contexts, naturally respecting the market. Therefore, this proposal also goes to the fact that only loans in Swiss francs are equal to loans in euro, with citizens on the same date, on the same day under the same conditions in different banks taking loans in euro. An equal position is the social category. We bring everything linearly because we have to be the same to all citizens. We can't single each other out, not in a situation like this where the market is disrupted. It is crucial that this law provides a predictable and lasting solution to credit users tomorrow. And the CNB, its basic, one of the basic tasks, is to safeguard the stability of the course, kunas according to the euro and price stability. And she can do it and she'll do it. This does not endanger the foreign exchange reserves of the Republic of Croatia, this ensures that the famous justice that someone may call hypocrisy or populism is guaranteed but it is clear that this is the only way to solve this problem properly and that we no longer discuss this problem. There is a problem with the economy, legal persons who took loans in Swiss francs. 65% of them can't pay it back anymore. Most of them went into a pre-fashion deal. However, in this law to protect citizens, to ensure the enforceability of this law, we cannot go for legal persons, but that does not mean that the implementation of this law cannot be decided by the law on commercial societies and foreign exchange law tomorrow and by the law on credit institutions that those entrepreneurs who still have loans in Swiss francs can be those who can turn it into euro. But at this point it's not possible for clear reasons, legal reasons, essential reasons. We at the HNS Club once again support the adoption of this law. The government is, this is the third measure of the government that should be final in terms of the Swiss citizens' franc, I say, still remain entrepreneurs, and I believe that the CNB will do that part of its job of protecting prices and protecting the course as it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118959	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118960	Thank you very much. I'm asking the timing question again, so you had four years to do it and you didn't do it. After all, you're talking about the equality of all citizens. We're not even in the Parliament. Here is the HDSSB club, a year and a half ago, proposed to draw conclusions on the implementation of the previous debate for the legal halting of the conduct, pedicures and delegations of Croatian citizens from the only property they own, as well as in which they live. And here's the last one, at the end of the assembly we're in 88th place. So we're not even with you rulings at all. And you can't deny it to me. Secondly, when you talk about the equality of all citizens, I have been given an explanation that due to the equality of all citizens, legalization cannot be achieved for one kuna for agricultural facilities because those who legalise cottage houses at sea and those who legalise their facilities in agriculture would then not be equal because then our peasants would be more equal to say. But that's the kind of explanation I got that all people have to be equal. Legalisation must be carried out under the same conditions. And agricultural facilities are production facilities are not those cottages at sea. That's the way it is. So, if we're talking about the equality of all citizens, then those who paid off the loans are probably equal to those who still owe in Swiss francs, right? Right? Why should those who have paid off credit under the difficult conditions that they have and those who still pay would be inequitable compared to those who still owe credit in Swiss francs? That's what we're talking about, and we're writing the amendment. This was discussed by counterpart Bubalo that even those who have indeed sold apartments or real estates or cars to pay off a loan in francs and now close that loan are equal to those who are here will be welcomed by the thank God situation to change their situation in the euro and anuity and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118961	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118962	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As to the agenda points, therefore, please contact the Croatian Parliament Presidency rather than me. As for the loans paid, if you didn't listen, I listened to the minister in the opening statement, clearly the legal experts said that this would cause this law to fall immediately because of retroactiveness, and I think that we are primarily obliged to make sure that we implement laws rather than do something that can knowingly compromise the law that ensures that 52 thousand families, 200 thousand citizens can finally start breathing much easier than with Swiss people. That's what's key. As far as legalisation is concerned, although it is not the subject, the large majority of the votes in the Croatian Parliament have been passed by a large majority of votes, which means that we have ensured equality through this law for all those who legalise objects, that we have provided them with the possibility that something that has essentially value, something they have invested, maybe they can also get loans in the right sense of value and usefulness, which is even more important, including if I am not cheating on you personally. And it's a key matter of legalization. And very much keeping in mind that most citizens who have not been able to legalize their own license and get it until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118963	Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118964	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Gjurkovic, you've said a lot and explained it, but I think this law sets out a group of citizens. Those who have not paid off the loans in full and those groups of citizens who have refinanced their existing obligations are excluded. Therefore, when it comes to the question of the group of citizens who paid off the loans, they also need to be helped, and what the CNB needed to do was done by a calculator. It is known that they have a course for all these years on a daily middle course, but interest should also be defined, not that the calculator in each bank is different and the payment plans that will arrive to be different for customers. Therefore, we should have defined this law as a clear calculator that should have thrown out the CNB, had on our site, and people did not have to wait for payment plans to get them home but could immediately make a calculation and calculate what it means for each credit user. But with this, we singled out one group, and that's this outstanding loan, and we have a situation like our colleague Novak used to say before, and we all know some example where people have refinanced their liabilities, and that's exactly what it was, but before that, it was a loan. Therefore, this part should have been very helpful and calmed by these people by the same calculator as the HND.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118965	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118966	Dear colleagues, amendments and additions to these two laws have been made in accordance with the conditions and opportunities to make the best and best quality at this time for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by respecting the other laws that we have in the Republic of Croatia and by not bringing this law into a position to make decisions that may be fair but cannot be made because they are retroactive, can they not be enforceable. And that's the key to this law. I agree with you that if it was possible to find a solution for the citizens who paid off, but if you can't with this law, you can't because it's known that we can't go into retroactiveness. Then we don't have to cry for things and opportunities and conditions that we couldn't but try to solve what is possible and try that equality that I was talking about, the equality of all citizens who took loans to be on equal terms now that they're in euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118967	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118968	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, dear Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Where's Gjurkovic? He's gone. We heard here he tried to defend himself against the the thesis of pulsism and the face of the place. Well, my colleague Gjurkovic would like to ask you to stay a second. Thank you. Let's back up a little bit, but there's still one and the other. 8.5 years ago, I think it was January 2008, right from this place I talked about the financial sector regulator's body, the banking sector of the CNB, and then it was a clean heresy. The report was unanimously accepted here except for one vote as a rule. And when the 2010 report finally caught up with the Committee on Finance and Budget, there is a witness here, then I chaired that committee, not to accept the CNB's report due to a series of failures in its work. One of the most important reasons why it is not accepted, and 15 are mentioned, 20 is the case of a Swiss franc. After a report by the CNB on the board was not accepted, after the new elections were selected, the new assembly of the Assembly was re-elected, this assembly of fellow Members Gjurkovic you were, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, put the same topic on the agenda and twice decided on the same, for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, again on the same CNB 2010 report. I'm allowing the possibility that you didn't know about it, and I'm giving it to you, and I'm allowing it to be possible. And imagine a report that wasn't accepted. After a few months accepted unanimously and no one cared that it was not accepted because of the appearance of the Swiss franc. Then I'm free to say that there's hypocrisy and populism when we all agree on what date fits, how much time we've had and what's happened so far, so there's room for such a thesis. We have to tell you what kind of phenomenon this is about first. The phenomenon of the Swiss franc is something similar to an elemental accident that affects a country like drought, fire, flood, only that disaster lasts much shorter or that disaster than this accident. And that's why the appearance of the Swiss franc can be freely called monsters. It's just a monster that was viewed with several positions, very well-intentioned and acceptable. But it's important to say what circumstances led to such a monster. At first, there was an atmosphere, an ambience, an environment of fostering borrowing, an impact on people’s mental circuits on how to encourage borrowing, and how to create false power, purchasing power in humans. With this creation of false purchasing power, imagine when someone doesn't have a salary, works, doesn't pay their wages, and gets a minus, gets a credit, and then feels that they have money, it's easier to spend that money and what they don't need maybe. One of the circumstances that led to this is certainly the currency clause. It proved to be a speculative instrument, it proved to be an irregular relationship and a permanent stain, it will be a permanent stain of the Croatian state with the responsibility of those who allowed it to happen. And that shouldn't have happened, it could have been prevented because in very few countries it happened, and in a much larger number of countries it didn't happen because they were preventing it. Of course there's a CNB leak. Here, and I will commend the CNB for its consistent continued action but in the wrong way. For years it has worked consistently, disciplined wrongly, disciplined harmfully, disciplined tastelessly and disciplined underratedly for the Croatian people and the Croatian state. Circumstances were created for the trap, and the CNB as a regulatory body that had to eliminate such a trap she directed into that trap. Of course, it seemed to some that in one trap there was cheaper cheese in one free one, and the CNB knew about free cheese only in mice, but there must be no mousefish in credit relations. This is where the currency clause turned out to be a mousefish. Of course, the circumstances have also been affected by the change in the Swiss franc's course, but also simply changing interest rates on already agreed credit ratings. And the fundamental question arises, did the banks have Swiss franc funds in their sources? I don't think there's any doubt about the code anymore that the banks didn't have a Swiss franc. Even the CNB denied it itself and in one way confirmed that the banks... were performing derivatives, but that they never did more than pay off the Swiss franc. The question is, whose responsibility is it? It has part of the responsibility and those who have agreed to be manipulated themselves because of their... level, financial literacy are not even obliged to be written, but such is easier to specify they have allowed themselves to be deceived, they have allowed to be deceived. There are also banks that knowingly speculated and did so. Of course, the CNB is responsible as a regulatory body, but I cannot leave out the responsibility of either the Government or the Croatian Parliament, precisely because of what I said at the beginning, how many times did the Croatian Parliament discuss the reports of the regulatory institution that there was no criticism until 2, 3 years ago except for exceptions. And there was this solution that partly brings satisfaction to a certain number of credit users, a certain number. How to be the one to say I won't be in favor of helping those who are damaged, impossible because they're really damaged. But that is not the reason to say and not to notice that this law is still disabled, that it carries with it great uncertainty in its implementation, that it carries uncertainty about the lawsuit, that it carries uncertainty in a financial respect exactly what, here and almost all the time it has been said about the extent of the financial, effect or effect or the product of this conversion. Instead of knowing exactly that, and that, on the Committee on Finance, Gjurkovic submits the report to the Governor, to answer all questions and to guarantee by signing and liability the amount then the model can be based on such a financial amount. This is how it is said here that this does not require the provision of resources in the state budget, and it is actually not true. Because it is certain that banks will achieve more expenditure than they planned and that this will reduce their tax base, i.e. reduce their profits and tax base, so the profit tax, I said, in these estimates, even though I am reluctant to talk about estimates, there are no estimates in these situations, in these situations it is necessary to know exactly everything, that even a billion and 600 or 2 billion are possible to pay the profit tax less than it is paid. It'll be a lack in the budget. How do you make it up to him? I'm in charge. And now he says he's threatening someone, governor or CNB, threatening financial instability. Well, financial instability has been threatening for a long time. With all this debt, with 11 billion kunas of interest per year, with this number of unemployed, with this number of employees he is equal to the number of pensioners, so we are long in an unstable financial situation. We don't even know what the exact number of potential returns and conversions is, and you don't know it. An estimate of 52,000, an estimate of 50, 60 thousand like that of the Croatian National Bank 3 billion, 3.5, 5.5 and now 8 billion as if it were thousands of kunas and not billions. The question arises when, if it is and in this law, it is said that it is the return of the subscription. If it's about the return of the subscription, then it's about getting back to anyone who's subscribed, like someone's subscribed electricity, and then one of them comes back and the other doesn't come back. If it's a subscription, it is. Why aren't they involved, why discriminate against those who paid off the loan maybe yesterday, maybe today? And they can also be worse, perhaps, if we're going to observe social status than the ones that are still paying off, not to talk about the very dramatic situation and the letters we're getting right now, I'm not going to read. And regardless of what it was about whether he paid off, he didn't pay off, whether he'd already converted to euro or even taken away his property, and he'd pay off for a while and overpaid and no one would ever think of him again. No one thinks of companies that have fallen apart because of it, fired workers, cut salaries, paid no wages, paid no contributions. Even... The units of local self-government were in debt in loans to the Swiss franc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been shown that banks have been directing committees to take loans related to the Swiss franc and told them that they have failed to meet the criteria, that they are not capable of credit in kunas, i.e. euro-related loans, but are only capable of credit in Swiss francs. I haven't heard an argument or a criterion yet because it's impossible, there's no criterion that can be determined to be able to bind it to one currency and not be able to attach to another currency. It's an inaccessible business of every bank or bank manager. It was inadmissible and it had to be prevented. However, as it is possible if the risk is, for example, in kunas, there is no currency risk, then zero, let's say that zero, if the currency risk is on the euro and the euro is 15 years stable let's say that's the risk coefficient 3, and the Swiss one that varies constantly, and then it would have to be a risk coefficient much higher, it would have to be 20, 30 or 50. And now imagine the one who's in a more risky group he's more capable of watching the regulatory body. Together, we have accepted such reports for years. That's why the leak here is a lot. I am not for it, nor can the Croatian Democratic Community support 50,000 people to be helped by those who have been damaged, but it has also made amendments to include everyone not to be discriminated against. Because this law is not this group privileged to be included in the law. She's just getting satisfaction, but they're discriminated against by these other groups because they're not coming in, because they're also damaged and they won't get satisfaction. But great risks are borne by a law that does not know what financial effect comes from that law. It's a huge risk the government takes. Personally, I think it's far, far best that two laws were prepared, one on conversion and the other on the return of overpaid and that included everything. Such two laws would probably avoid a lot of lawsuits, so I'm sure there will be lawsuits, mostly those left out of this law. There will be claims by banks to the Constitutional Court on the assessment of the constitutionality of this, so they will produce with them many irregularities, but in this way, once you get to such a situation HDZ is the last one that will not support one particular group being helped. Imagine, once again, when I return to the threat of the financial system, there is no banking sector in the world yet to have as many as 30% of the total credit ratings in the economy as non-refundable or partially non-refundable, and that this banking system is operating positively. It doesn't exist. Imagine at 267 billion kuna credit ratings having 46 classified as partially chargeable and completely non-paymentable, i.e. having 23 billion reserved for potential losses and nevertheless doing positive business. Have 8% of total credit ratings reserved for losses and have a positive result. So what would be the bank's profits if they were to charge their loans, if they hadn't put them at risk. And it didn't occur to anyone in the CNB to tell them that this puts the financial system at risk. He's very threatened, but why wasn't he in practice de facto compromised? Just because it's all covered with these loans, with commissions, with fees, with a new so-called. products where every day they get orders to design new sources of profit, to cover such losses. No one is responsible for carrying but they share bonuses on loans from a given company that was known to never be able to repay such loans. Only 10 companies in Croatia received 7 billion kunas and never returned them. And the kind of administration that did that shares bonuses and we've heard what, 50 doctors, and then maybe doctors and all the others are covering it by returning credits in Swiss francs. There will also be technical difficulties I am convinced of, and the legislator has not taken care of it, that most of the guarantees will not agree to sign guarantee contracts. So what do we do? No signature, no conversion. So if anyone was burned, the guarantees burned, the credit users burned, and now that they finally have a chance not to sign, of course they won't sign. All of this should have been taken care of in particular those not covered, the financial effect, the amount level, the insurance of funds and the absence of tectonic disturbances in the banking sector because the banking sector is nevertheless the most important segment in economic activity and it must be stable and secure, but no one should be deceived. That is why HDZ will still support this bill, but it warns of all the negativity and disability of such a single proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118969	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118970	A colleague, that HDZ is the last one who won't support these laws. ... Ergo will support it because there's nowhere to go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Still, he'll support it because he's not when he can do it. But let's put it aside. You really need a colleague to give credit because as much as you have become recognizable throughout Croatia, speaking from the opposition times, that is, when you were in power, you pointed your blade not only at business banks but also at the central bank. But then, although it was clear to all of you what you were saying and were really speaking heretic during your government, you never directly connected the functioning of banks or the central bank with the operation of that. The inaction of the government. So once... he said, listen to a colleague, a young colleague, a very nice speech but what you're going to do, what you've done. So today, when you say that, when things are solved, and when things have fallen apart, they have especially escalated and started most during HDZ there was no solution. Today, when a solution is offered, you use exactly this time to connect and criticize banks and connect it with this power that solves things. When you talk about motives, we can really go in when someone does something in different motives that makes someone do something. I think that, let me have this expression, to a people full of these kind of analysis, people want to get rid of things yesterday, if not yesterday. And I believe and I still stand in that position that for good works is always the right time, however, benevolence always with us is suspicious. While evil is understood simply for the sake of it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] That's what our whole policy is about, because good is always suspicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118971	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118972	Thank you very much. I don't know, maybe there's something personal like this for such an act, but I'm not going to answer that, because none of what you were saying I wasn't saying. Which today was not clear what I was saying and what was different and what I was connecting what you were talking about by connecting the government. About motives? I wasn't talking about motives at all. I was talking about hypocrisy and directly told my colleague Gjurkovic why he mentioned hypocrisy. Because the Finance Committee acted hypocritically because he knew everything, he saw everything. The report was not accepted because there was no mention of the Swiss franc case in the 2010 report. And then when such a report has not been accepted past, the Rules of Procedure is violated and the report is re-admissioned. Someone pressured the report to accept that it must not remain written that it is not accepted. Tell me another case in the work of the Croatian Parliament where the report of an agency or regulatory body was accepted twice, that is, when it was not accepted that the second session was accepted. It doesn't exist. But I'm always, I can handle this kind of criticism and not respond the same way. It's not a problem for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118973	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118974	Dear counterpart Marić, it is clear that your position is also around the Croatian National Bank and around the Swiss. But during your debate, you mentioned the currency clause and that it was speculative. So we have a speculative one, and we have a protective one. In fact, we had the mark in our time, today the euro, and the speculative one was Swiss, yen, dollar but especially Swiss, and that is why the Croatian National Bank should have reacted. But during your debate, you said that there was a need to secure funding in the state budget, and we see today already on the board that we have a proposal for temporary funding for next year. It will only reflect on the budgets in the coming years, but on the spending side that will have to be smaller. And it is evident that this year, when our income side is growing, there was no concern about the country's deficit and the deficit reduction. Therefore, this will certainly be a problem in drawing up next budgets for next year. But I also want to say something about overpaid loans. A short time ago, my colleague Gjurkovic spoke about retroactivity. The same is paid or not paid as you mentioned earlier either that current, or that gas, or something else. Therefore, all those who paid off the loans were having a hard time paying off as counterpart Novak used to sell the property today, taking loans in the euro, and they needed to make a subscription to these loans. Therefore, there is a clear situation, and I cannot agree with one of your thesis, and it refers to the guarantees. You said the question is, will the guarantees come to sign? Well, all of us who've been bailing on someone in Swiss are going to run to sign because they're reducing the principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118975	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118976	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to refer to the currency clause. I said this currency clause is related to the Swiss franc of speculative, speculative instrument. Namely, the currency clause has a protective, protective feature if the sources of the funds are, is the currency to which it binds. But it is protected for both the believer and the debtor. And if it is protected if it binds to the euro because banks have euro funds in their sources, although not to the extent that it is shown, because we also have savings in euro which are also not mentioned in the CNB, nothing, where foreign exchanges are purchased, but only registers as if they exist. But if it's not in sources like it didn't have a Swiss franc or I used to say a Moroccan diham or a Swedish crown then it's speculative at first, it only has a speculative feature because it can't have protection when there's nothing to protect itself from when they don't own either of those currencies. So that's why she's speculative. As far as the budget is concerned, I agree by next year, of course it will affect the budget next, but it will not be possible to cut expenditure as it reduces from expenditure. Therefore, there will likely be new debts and revenue increases to compensate for these new expenditures, the lack of these revenues. As far as the bailiffs are concerned. Logically, I allow why agreeing on everything and differing opinions are enriching. But what even if they're extremely different. But there are guarantees that are not in good relations with the users of the loan, which paid for them and He'll never agree to sign anything like that again. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118977	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118978	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Maric, you were talking about populism, you were talking about responsibility and what led to this problem and why we are in this problem. But what I would like to remind you is that this problem is primarily the currency clause in the Swiss franc, which has not existed since yesterday, and has neither been created for these governments, nor for this governor, but rather before 2005 or 2006, if I am not mistaken. Also when you talk about good intentions, this is what the president of your party announced, and you have now said that you will support this bill in good faith because 60 thousand of our citizens are being helped. More old Latins said... So I'm afraid of HDZ, too, good intentions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid colleagues are good intentions of HDZ as your economic programme. Everyone's talking about him, and no one's seen him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118979	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118980	My colleague Hajdukovic, I'm not used to responding to such replicas, so I may still be a little unprepared because I don't know how you're trying to argue. When you say no one saw the economic program, recently, two nights or three nights ago, the unions saw it, read it, even made a statement about it. Therefore, it is not your claim that it does not exist. They even praised him as much as I remember. As far as the problem is concerned, the problem is a little bit and more backwards than you said. The problem didn't arise in 2008, the problem arose, and earlier it just appeared as a problem. The problem occurred when the first credit agreement was signed regarding the Swiss franc. That's when the problem started. It just turned out to be a problem later when he escalated the course. I neither politicized nor threw myself away with populism or anything, but if you already mention that HDZ had time for several years even had time before the 2003 HDZ, the Government would react and prevent us from going in such a way as to debate because then the first ones would appear in such transactions. And it could have been resolved in these four years as well. But I don't like to talk like that, so I'm not gonna use it every second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118981	Next line, dear Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118982	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you have called me several times. I must admit that for the first time I have heard that I have violated the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by putting something on the agenda that has not been voted upon, so we voted. I don't know, nobody noticed me, nobody warned me, so we're gonna check it out, but this is how it turns out I broke and I can't prove it, so it seems like maybe it's not fair to argue about it. When we talk about responsibility, of course the CNB has responsibility and will always have it. The issue of calling for responsibility, given that this law, which we amended in 2013 and the law that we changed in January of this year, is responsible for changing the laws of the Croatian Parliament or for proposing the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And then I have to mention that when you're already calling for the CNB's responsibility to be called for certain inactions, then I have to say that the HDZ Government from 2004 to 2012, or at the end of 2011, too, did not do anything concrete to prevent this. And you're on the other side, you have to admit, you warned. But then perhaps it would be correct and fair to say in this House of Highs that this responsibility is also borne by HDZ. It is therefore good to support this law because at this point it is possible in these conditions to still be implemented and to bring into place and enable citizens who have loans in Swiss francs to be able to plan permanently and in the long term and have the same conditions as those in kuna and euro. You mentioned inciting borrowing, false purchasing power. The HDZ government had the same responsibility at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118983	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118984	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, if you remember, I said I'm allowing the possibility that you were not informed and that you were being duped. Now you claim that's the case, and I accept that. But I've paid a lot of prices for ignorance, so the price is paid sometimes when you don't know. The services had to know. And it is true that the former minister prevented it from coming to a public debate, during a debate in the Parliament. That's true. But she was in debt with the currency clause as well as speculatively and where we lost at the course. And that's true, I don't mind. But everyone knew in the Parliament and the parliamentary service that the proposal hadn't passed. It's been written for days and days. It was probably someone who had the effect of coming back and accepting it. But that's true. My colleague Jelash is a witness that it was not accepted, and here you are a witness that was accepted because you were then. And on 22 January 2012, at the second session of the Committee on Finance and the budget, a report was adopted which was not accepted six months ago because I was president when it was not accepted. It was for someone, someone needed it. And it has always written in CNB reports so visible that it damages the Croatian economy as it did if the population was once half as credited as commercial companies, and today we have that companies are less credited than the population. Then it is clear where all of us were led by the CNB, and it is known that no economy in the world was developing if loans to the population were greater than loans to companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118985	Time. Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118986	Thank you very much. A fellow Maric lawyer says ignorance doesn't justify it. Therefore, he knew or did not know the board one had made a decision not to accept the CNB Report and this second half of the year, so in the term of office of this Government he made it to be accepted. And does anyone know it or doesn't know it doesn't justify someone who doesn't know it and mostly experts in economic matters. But what you said and what you are all instructions in the way that citizens are led. Very thoughtful, very sophisticated to get into loans with Swiss francs and ever since these loans were raised. So, at the time of that government of the SDP and the coalition partners from 2000 to 2004. So credits last 20 years, 25 years, 30 years, so credit time. In fact, it states that it is a very thoughtful and sophisticated organised mechanism or as I have previously called it a criminal enterprise over those who have raised loans, which are actually Croatian citizens, Croatian credit bonds, and it is actually a thought-out, organized, very sophisticated, well-thinking criminal enterprise that should actually consider criminal responsibility rather than just this. This is already a late measure. I said it's too late for Marco to come to Kosovo, but here's the least we can do is save what's to be saved. And this government, as well as the past, could change that direction and prevent the criminal enterprise committed against the Croatian people and those who took loans in Swiss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118987	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118988	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to deepen this problem, but the government now knew as well as the convocation of the Croatian Parliament knew they didn't have that report delivered for 2010. That report was delivered a long time ago, and they didn't even see it. They were not delivered and the government could not even give an opinion on the report. And then all of a sudden, they're on the agenda of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Because in the act, they agreed when he became governor that it was urgent to put it so it couldn't be that the report wasn't accepted. ... Not one place he's in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And imagine that report said that there is still room and that the credit activity of banks needs to be directed even more towards the population. Imagine the blasphemy in the official report. And it doesn't say that it should be directed towards the economy. If it kept falling for years in years of crisis, but the population owed as much as possible, why? Well, because the easiest thing to do is to peel off the population, the biggest interest, the biggest fee and everything else. In that report, too, why no report was accepted on the board because one of the other twenty reasons was. Where the current account minuses are classified as loans when they are not loans. No contracts, no interest agreed, no return deadline and now they suddenly appear in new reports of new positions, no more minuses in current accounts and still minuses, and for years they've been held as minuses in current accounts, and they've been, like, recorded as minuses, held as loans. And there's no collateral, there's no insurance, and that's how 55 billion kunas of to God's "credit" per minus, according to current accounts, and 14% of the interest has been charged on it for years. That's what the CNB allowed, and that's what it all said, and that's why we turned it down, but that's why this government re-accepted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118989	New replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118990	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you said when you spoke and pointed to this problem back in 2008 then you were declared heretic. Obviously, they had no vision of what might happen in the next period, and probably in such circumstances, the economic situation was more favourable, but you also pointed out the many disadvantages of this bill, so you talked about the assessment, the assessment of the cost, the loss of the state budget, the assessment of the financial effects, discrimination against those who paid off the loan, discrimination against those who converted their credit into euro, but the technical details that are related to the guarantees or the judiciary. Imagine in my case both guarantees are blocked, they no longer have almost any income. What in that case technically do? But you have voiced doubts that banks will safely seek their protection in court and do not rule out the possibility of collecting from these lawsuits because the banking sector is certainly an important sector in economic activities and should not run away from it. So, knowingly by voting this bill, all of us are still at risk of returning lost profits to banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118991	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118992	Most of all, the bank's profit is that it is no bigger impact on large companies' non-refundable loans that have been designed to end up in pre-bank deals. And as the pre-warrant settlements work, I have to look back at them a little bit, so those who have most of the enquiries, which are banks, say that some write off 80% of the claims and 5% of the banks. And when he writes off, all these others write off and the country basically 90 percent or 100%, and then stays the bank clean and makes sense of its claims. That's how it works in practice, and if it's necessary, I'll point it out, only if I'm encouraged to say it. Well, as far as the inadequacy is concerned, it's undeniable, and how is it not flawed if you bring a model and you don't know how much this model costs? It's basic data, it's a foundation like a building house. And based on the need, a healthy foundation to build. And the governor doesn't know, the CNB doesn't know and then he doesn't know the minister, of course he doesn't. I don't justify it here, but he can't know the minister or the deputy minister if he doesn't give it to the CNB. But from the banks you will not get this information accurate ever and therefore it was necessary to bring and order the Governor to join the Croatian Parliament with the report team and team. You've got seven days, three days or three hours. On the board, take the report, sign your report, and on your signature, you build a model like this because it's too much of a risk. He has no risk at all. We've got bigger you and me. If this is tomorrow and you voted for it, or you didn't vote. And whoever's most responsible has no risk at all. She's four times already paying off you and me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118993	Replica, the esteemed Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maric, in most cases I agree with your debate, of course, but I have been disturbed by one of your findings that HDZ will accept or support, vote for this law for the reasons that it is the help of 50, 70,000 people as you have said. So you said it was about helping a large number of people in so-called Swiss francs debtors. I absolutely disagree with you. These citizens, and here are representatives of the Franak Association never asked for help, they sought justice. Today we've been discussing it all day, and we're all kind of thinking at least consensually that if it wasn't for crime or fraud what some of our colleagues called it, it was certainly a sophisticated manipulation of citizens. That's why I don't think we should use any expressions or talk about social criteria or help citizens, talk about justice because we've said long ago that our society has to be a fair society, that we have to have a rule of law in this society, if that's how we determine it, then we'll be able to solve all the problems that this law could not cover at this point. So if responsibility is determined, if we find that there really is a crime, then those credits that have been paid will be much easier to deal with on a regular trial basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118995	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118996	My colleague Sabolic, first of all, did not say that this law was an aid, but I said that this law helps to restore the subscription and bring satisfaction to the damaged. If anyone knows what Frank's going through, then I know, and they know it. When they were all rejected, no one wanted to say words for them, I did not flee from them, I do not flee today. But I'm not running away from those who stayed out of this, and they're just as hurt. I don't want to measure, they're just as hurt, and they're left out. I'm happy for them, and that's why I'm raising my voice. But I'm expressing dissatisfaction with these, which makes my conscience express dissatisfaction. I wasn't talking about social and crime. It's possible that there's a subscription and no criminal activity. How's it going, how's it going to end? I don't know. But anything that leads to a situation like this, I don't think it has to be criminal, no. So is it a crime if you overpaid Elektra? He won't even pay you back your money, but he says from the next war we'll say no to you. It's not a crime in such a position. That's how banks were in this position. I don't call anyone or think that if someone committed a misdemeanor, then it was a failure by the CNB and I still don't claim to have committed a crime. I'm the last person to say that because I would never say that someone committed a crime because I don't know. There's one that determines that, I'm not in charge of that. So you shouldn't mind me saying that HDZ will support this law because it will help solve and bring satisfaction and return money to what they have overpaid to deprive them in such a way. I'm to defile them and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118997	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118998	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maric, you've been very professional in talking about this law on financial instability, on currency risk and on all this responsibility of the Government and the Parliament. I would briefly return and appeal to the government especially to the ministry if this story did not forget the entrepreneurs, the investments, the investors we all swear on in this law. Here, for example. Today, a letter from the Ministry of Tourism has arrived at the addresses of all cities and municipalities and tourist communities requesting that all tourism investments, all investments, their funding methods be recorded and delivered, given that the Ministry of Tourism is obliged to monitor these investments, in accordance with the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020 with the aim of developing and raising the competitiveness of our tourism. I wonder if only at this moment the Ministry of Tourism and the Government is taking care of the investments and investors, only this future or those we already have in the space? Do we know how many entrepreneurs, how many craftsmen should close their craftsmen, how many companies to fire workers because, as it stands in the context of the bill's adoption proposal, even in one day, there was an increase in the rate of 30% that was impossible to predict at the time of the loan? Are these workers citizens of the second row and this House or government should not be concerned about them or will we forget investors and entrepreneurs when we pass this law, and then within an hour when we talk about the Law on Encouragement of Investment, we will have a big word for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u118999	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119000	My colleague Juričev, the responsibility of the Parliament in many cases is great and will not be able to go with the dynamics of progress as we expect Croatian society until the Assembly is a place to raise hands as the command comes across. Imagine the paradox, the government asks the Parliament to sit, and the Parliament cannot ask the government to sit. The government is giving an opinion on reports that are not going to the government but that go to the Parliament and the Parliament is not discussing these reports, and it's the body that reports only to the Parliament not to the Government, but it has to go there, so when the government's opinion is read then here and I'm not saying that for this government, I keep saying that, society won't go forward. The intruder can't be heard. I was talking about this, too. That's right. As for these loans in Swiss francs and companies, so many companies that were forced to sell real estate, cut salaries to pay off loans in Swiss francs or pay off are not yet included, some have ended up in pre-departure deals and now the rest will end up in bankruptcy, fire people and end up in bankruptcy. And why is that? Because there hasn't been a systematic analysis of these segments that you've been looking for. Is there a number for this? There's nothing, there's no telling what the number of credit users is on any basis, no businessmen, no craftsmen, no tourism, no industry, no, there's an estimate of 52,000 credit users in Swiss francs, no other estimates of either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119001	A new replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119002	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, you spoke about populism in your debate, yesterday we held pleasant talks on populism and it is difficult to avoid it since we are in time, pre-election time and this law solves some of the problems of a larger number of people and therefore we support it. However, there is no need to be surprised by this populistism, because the fact is that certain provisions he plans to solve exactly, new solutions, i.e. The new calculations take place precisely in time to the elections themselves, not beyond these choices, because then the deadlines would be quite different. But the government has the right to do so and let it do so and no one can convince me that it's different because I don't know what we know today and here we are close to the 10th month we didn't know in the 5th or 6th month and then we'd avoid this story of populistism. And if it were the populist testimony and what we got on the bench, the government's amendment to solving the problems of the people who took loans to Raiffeisen's savings. I have here two written answers that deny these amendments. The government's ability to resolve them during a certain period of time. Because when we asked for two conclusions, they said we wouldn't accept. When we asked the Government to react on its own and write what it wanted and how it should be solved, to solve another group of people who had their own problem couldn't possibly solve and behold miracles today, 2, 3 days before the meeting of the Parliament ended, and we can solve that. Here's what we can do about them. But what happened in the meantime? There's been some damage. Many people, meanwhile, have lost their real estate during the last few months in which we warned. Here is a recent announcement in Opatija of 20 over the real estate of people who have loans on the island of Rab. How do we pay them back because the government remembered at the last minute and it had the same thing five months ago and you voted against it. So how come we don't think it's populism? It's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119003	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119004	I don't think I can be absolutely sure that at least 6.7 times has been requested here in the Croatian Parliament over the past years to warn of the actions of the Raiffeisen savings banks that were operating, approved loans to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia without having the consent of the Croatian National Bank. No one has responded to that until today, praise is worth it today and I'm glad to react because I'm sensitive to such things and I should have reacted but it's been warned so far. Now, of course, it encourages this qualification that you say to populistism the last day, another three days of the Parliament meeting. But there's something other than populist laws, there's some very interesting laws. How is it possible that six new laws are coming on board today by emergency procedure and maybe we'll be sitting for another two or three days, by emergency procedure? It's interesting to come from the same segment, and the energy market, and the Energy Act where such things change, and that's how it suits privates, and that's how they bring laws to harm the state. But one part, most of the coalition must not react to that, even though it opposes such laws because the other coalition partner blackmails with such laws and implements them. All the kickings go through what comes out of that same segment. And there's no law in that segment that's not a law of interest and there's no law that's not disabled, dislocated, and of course it's the responsibility of all of us when we raise our hands for such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119005	The last replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119006	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Marić in your discussion that it is impossible, or unlikely that the banks in Croatia have 30% of the uncharging loans and that they still operate positively, moreover, to make billions of kuna profits. If the share of non-payment loans really amounted to 30%, it would really be too much of a burden and require too many reservations, so too much cost would be for banks and banks would certainly not be able to operate positively. However, that 30% information of yours is not correct. The correct information is that business banks in Croatia have 17% of the total uncharging loans and 30% are loans that are granted only works of construction, so to entrepreneurs in construction, so only one activity. But I would like to add another fact that supports this correction to the incorrect quote, I would like to say the unique position of all of us who are in the assembly right now, which is that the banks have literally hit Croatia. And as for citizens and the economy or entrepreneurs. So also Intesa Sanpalo and UniCredit so two large Italian financial or banking systems whose components and our two largest banks, so Privredna banka and Zagrebačka banka, were achieved in the recession years of business losses, business losses. At the same time, both Privredna and Zagrebačka Banka achieved billions of kuna profits, so billions of kunas gained and paid millions of bonuses to their managers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119007	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119008	My colleague Jelash, perhaps you've heard wrong, perhaps I've said wrong, but if I said wrong, then I'll say what I was going to say. 30% is non-paymentable and partially non-paymentable loans in the economy, the total economy. If that's true, I'll read it to you. Of the € 106 billion approved by companies, 32 billion has been qualified as partially non-refundable. 32/106 is... it's the latest data. And a total of non-payments are characterised as 46 billion on 276 credit ratings, and the total reservation to companies, so the economy reserved for losses is 14 billion, and the population and the economy is 23 billion kuna. 8 billion is reserved for the population, 14 for the economy for losses. Imagine, there are almost twice as many reservations for losses in companies that have fewer loans than the population. Then who pays more regularly and who pays more? The population. So it was probably just a misunderstanding, it doesn't matter who it is now, either you heard wrong or I made a lapus. As for this second part of your replica about winning and winning, so you don't waste your time, I agree with everything you said because I said it so I won't repeat myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119009	The last club is the HSU Club. He, as we see in the line for the debate, comes at 17.27, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that should be freed from debt slavery by about 52000 citizens who took loans in Swiss francs and received it in kunas. Banks and bankers probably didn't see it. The question is why did these citizens take it if the loan was in kunas and euros. As one colleague tells me, he took it because of more favourable conditions. The euro did not require guarantees, and the course was also very favourable. For me, it has always been a mystery, which is why Croatia must have another parallel currency along with the kuna and the euro. The question arises whether banks have not slyly set loans to one of their scenarios in Swiss with a very low rate, counting on its future growth. And it happened drastically on January 15th this year when the course went from 6,39 to 7,39 and credit wars flew into the sky. The users of these loans found themselves in front of the wall when they could no longer pay for too high anunities, when the executions came, and they caused the problem of survival. On the other hand, we have bankers who got big bonuses for a good profit. All those years, especially during the 7-year crisis for both the state and the citizens, the banks made their mothers a very large profit. And the state got a piece of that profit tax cake and everything on the burden of the citizens. The CNB, as the head supervisor and the financial institution regulator, acted as if it were not at all relevant. And now, we dear colleagues and colleagues, we must make a fair and best decision that should solve this great problem, but without the great consequences for the state, for the citizens and for the banks. These days, we read about various proposals from economists, lawyers, politicians, various associations, and we have before us this proposal from the government. The damage of 8 billion kuna to banks is mentioned. In the event of a million-euro state damage to the bank's lawsuit, the loss of CNB foreign reserves. I personally wonder if we can make the best decision in that forest of the solutions offered and the dangerous threats. This amendment of the law proposes the conversion of credits to franc credit users, as well as to kunas with a currency clause in francs whose aim is to equate with the position of debtors who have been as euro borrowers and relating to such loans concluded since 1 January 2000. It is important to note that such a conversion of credit is on a voluntary basis and depends on the consumer's decision. Article 357c of the applicable law of this proposal prescribes steps in the calculation of conversion procedures by turning the initial approved principal of the credit denominated in Swiss francs and kunas with the currency clause in francs into the euro per exchange rate at the date of payment of the credit. The initially agreed interest rate in francs is replaced by the interest rate in euro, and a new payment plan is also established. The key step in the conversion is to convert paid amounts into annuity amounts under the new payment plan. The amounts paid which exceed the amount of annuity in euro shall be allocated as a advance, reducing part of the next war until that amount of overpayment is spent. In view of the fact that the overpayment does not close the principal but only annuities, the creditor's burden falls to the amount of interest calculated according to the new payment plan. So what is important, the calculation and conversion retains the conditions which the user would have achieved if he had had a loan in euro. Article 357.d of the applicable law requires a credit institution to make and publish on its website a calculator calculates conversions and all elements of the calculation by making each credit user through the OIB clear conversion procedure. Unfortunately, since certain groups of users are often bypassed in our laws, this conversion of credit in Switzerland does not apply to already paid loans but only to those paid out. In this way, the damaged will be understood and felt by those who were able to raise the necessary financial resources by January 15th of this year and pay off annuities at the old rate of 6.39 kuna. If anything else comes back to them what they've overpaid. In the end, although we cannot know today the future moves of banks and the consequences of possible lawsuits, and in the belief that we are helping citizens who are in an impossible, unexplainable situation, the Croatian Party of Retired Party club will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119011	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, guests at the gallery. The time has passed and I think that all this verbal artillery we have heard cannot silence and silence an explicit speech that for the first time in here in the Croatian Parliament and in front of the Croatian public we have learned details concerning this subject and everything that caused trouble. Very precise, very sharp that perhaps so far it has not been known to the narrow I would say to those who deal with politics, let alone the general public. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions and the Proposal for a Consumer Credit Act or, as we have already called them here, the Swiss laws or proposals of the Swiss law are an equivalent example that banks no longer write laws that concern them, that one responsible government is doing so, and I think that as a responsible majority we will support such good proposals and, unlike the time when these laws were written somewhere in some party offices, the former authorities and the current opposition, which is very glat, which the main problem sees that this problem is not solved at the beginning of this term. And such an objection could indeed stand if they were not in a position to resolve it, nor did they speak of it, nor would they think of it today as being in the same position as the then government to solve it. And that's clear to everyone, because they weren't then in a piece not just for the first 10 years, four years in power, but eight years in power. So if they wanted to, they could. Therefore, it would be polite to keep quiet about it now, but apparently whoever thinks so and I ask a lot of them myself. So, this bill of law, here's something my colleague Sabolic was talking about. I don't have that kind of credit, nor would it ever occur to me because some in America have told me that when you see something more favourable, one bank offers something more favourable than interest, or because of the exchange rate difference, it runs away from who the devil is from the incense. But the people were coerced. Maybe it's just individuals who were too careful. People were forced, forced. Different combinations. And so it wasn't individuals who were deceived, it was a huge number of people. And what the Prime Minister said yesterday, so we here by this law don't solve an individual case, because for individual cases, the court is in charge. We are solving a general phenomenon that has hit Croatia. And so she doesn't just repercuss the people she's going to refer to. It is of vital interest to the health of the nation, to the new position and responsible position of banks in society, to the new social, market economy. So, like this, what has happened to those people who have raised such loans so far, it offends every citizen whether he has raised a loan or not because it is something that is not fair, not to mention what I said this morning whether there are elements of criminal responsibility in view of the criminal act of fraud or fraud in economic business because they also correspond to legal persons. There's someone who can decide that. Banks like to say they offer industrial products. What kind of industrial product were they offering? A very stinky product, but put in a cellophane, he fooled many. So, these bill proposals, because for the first time, one government shows really what it is and duty, which was the duty of all other governments, but no one dared to say it. Now it should really have a big width that many want to admit it, but it's not a confession, but it's saying it's some kind of pre-election trick. I said it, and I'll repeat that every time, it's the right time to do good things. The Croatian government, the Croatian majority here has a view on this, will also support the citizens' promises of a lot of good and still things. I would also particularly like to stress that the entire philosophy of which banks are being managed, they were simply raised and every business of them was not what our esteemed colleague Gjurkovic said that the business of banks that play a specific role in society, because otherwise, as the modern globalised economy does, they are simply the heart, the circulation and they use such a position so that they can be managed and managed so far by their basic thesis and profit message privatisation, the profit is ours, the responsibility is yours. And to that logic, I think that this bill, and all future regulations that concern banks, the banking business needs to be put to an end. That's why I think these bill proposals have opened up a new economy, the start of a new economy, an economy for a man. As I said, and I will repeat, that these bill's proposals are rehabilitating the state, that the state is taking over that role that it has given to protect citizens from every insolence, from everyone's insolence, even if they were the ones and the banks that were untouchable to date. To appeal to their conscience as is true we have had opportunities for the past few years, especially while we were in opposition, by the authorities there and there something to hear, is naive and irresponsible. And the truth is that once before, I don't know, it seems to me now for five, six years if you don't even hear more from the CNB with a very small remark on these loans. But it's about caution or the risks of such loans, but they said it in such a way, fearing and praying to God for no one to hear them. So let's stop these bill proposals for an abuse of freedom that has led to willlessness, which is completely demoted into egoism, which has impoverished many of our people, our families. About all these troubles, it's true that everyone who spoke is right, but these people are too overstated to describe what these people have been going through. They ask politicians for solutions, they ask for quick solutions. That is why I support the broadly proposed legislation, and in particular the amendments that I think we will improve and which have been tabled by the Legislative Committee, which will improve implementation by providing for very strict penalties for those who dare not respect these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119013	We have one replica, a respected Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119014	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, all I support is what you said, more or less all of our citizens have gone through credit loans in one way or another, someone a little more painless, and all those who have been raising loans in Swiss unfortunately very painfully. Perhaps only in one sentence to point out that in addition to what is now being done, the measures taken to ensure that these citizens are definitely saved from debt slavery should also be taken into account that we are EU citizens and that in the future we should insist that if anyone has the need to be in charge that they are then in debt under the same conditions as all other EU citizens, with the same interest rates. So everything that goes for other citizens, too. And to insist on that, although it is mostly foreign to the banks and their daughters who are in the Republic of Croatia, to insist and work on banks being partners with our citizens and not being exploiters and extorts of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119015	Replication response, Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119016	I completely agree with you. And therefore not today, not yesterday, but always in Croatia have been worth Croatian laws. Therefore, all of this could have been done before. It doesn't matter whether a stranger is an individual or a foreigner is a company that works and lives and works in the Republic of Croatia has to act according to Croatian laws and has to be reached by Croatian justice. This could have been done by now but the laws that suit them were written, and those who do not respond because they could not be so explicitly exposed to the whole thing had a special favourable position that they were untouchable and that practically and positive laws did not apply to them. Well, you only remember when we changed the Code of Criminal Procedure when we introduced the discovery of banking secrets and the obligation of banks to do so. That's a lot of resistance! They say the banks we have a special law on banks. Look, the Criminal Procedure Act applies to all individuals and to the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons and to all legal persons. And another thing, many people are talking about currency here, there will be no justice until the currency clause is abolished. When the Bond Act was not fully applicable in the '90s, suddenly the courts because it was politics and forced the courts to judge according to the currency clause. We had one provision that interest could never cross the capital. And that's basic justice, was she in this currency or that currency. That's absolute justice. I think that in this sense not only we but also countries in Europe will have to focus if they are to establish justice because thirsty righteousness is not only people in Croatia but across Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119017	Thank you. An individual debate, respected Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, too, for attending this very unexpected session of the Parliament today. We heard a lot of new things and there was a lot of arguments. That's why waiting until the end of the debate frees me from actually needing to repeat many of the things that have been said. But three things I want to point out anyway. First, what we have as a credit default crisis in Swiss francs is the result of egotism and greed, egotism because the idea in a well-formed sentence coral islands has grown to the egotism of coral. ...is not true, this area must be more closely controlled and better regulated than many other areas because an individual, a debtor, cannot deal with banks. Greed, so you've already said almost everything. In this case, it was about opportunities to use great desire and expansion to place credits, because when times of crisis and poverty came, it practically ignored the problem. But here the main problem is the fact, quite objective and firm fact that people can't when they want to repay their obligations according to the contract that was once reached. The rebus sitibus of time and circumstances have changed and we can't even insist on banks defending our interest in being blind to that fact. The other thing, the thing that worries me the most is time. Gentlemen, you've been elected here and you're members of the political parties, but don't we see that this moment of law-making is extremely unsuitable for a rational solution to the problem because it is considered... to be a gift with a pre-election goal. I'll forget it, forget it, and it's been tried so many times in various ways but if there were no will, the will of the executive authorities above all, sooner or later, or present, which I should still comment on. We had here concrete proposals of legal solutions written laws which, however, did not come to the debate, one would come, did not offer their solutions. I'm concerned that in a time like this, it's pretty clear that promises are made at the most in pre-election time, but that's not what we're used to. We're used to something else that while you're in opposition everything is simple and easy and when you're in power it becomes impossible to accomplish it. That's what I'm afraid of in this case, and I'm afraid that the government of this same or future someone else facing the problem and the strong banking influence will find hundreds of reasons to give up what we've detected today. That's what's causing my concern. That's why, of course, we can't understand the promises, even if it's days, and it's not a good model, I'll say the same thing. There are opportunities for banks to succeed in their lawsuits, but how we vote obliges this and the future government to implement what is prescribed by this law. It's not a single-use law, it's a law that must be a strategic definition of the future government. Let me just take a little personal note, I'm having a hard time dealing with this problem because when I was 19, I was evicted with my family, my family on the street. It was hard for me back then, and I understand how difficult it is for people who are dealing with this problem today. But one thing here must be well considered and taken into account, which is the fact that banks have always carefully escaped judgments of courts, decisions, pressures and worst offers for negotiations. These issues are being dealt with by negotiations and for now and there will be no time for that. The banks delayed the solution to lead to a situation like this in which they would count on a future government to help, so they would seek the return of services. What I want to point out is that the third fact is that this law will be largely challenged by the challenges of challenging international institutions to justice, the European Court of Justice, arbitration in Washington and our Constitutional Court. No, my colleague Linic said well, he's gone, he said well here we must be very skeptical of the model. But the fact is, they won't call the banks on what he pointed out, which is solidarity and the social state. They will be called to the Constitution for protected freedom of entrepreneurship and investment guarantees Article 49(3). The Constitution. It's a very strong argument that you can't just ignore. True, banks have many other instruments of political and economic pressure, they can really government, it's a bit of a tough word, but I'll use it, blackmail it. Well, we're a country in a debt crisis, dependent on an uninterrupted flow of funds outside. Without it, our economy doesn't work. But I can see that your patience and time are running out. One of the books for this discussion is the mandatory literature of Shakespeare's Mletite Merchant. Right, because this is where all those guys that exist repeat themselves. An evil banker who seeks the fulfillment of the contract, an eye of flesh as it says, around the heart. That's right here. But how was the Merchant solved? But Shakespeare's way can't be imitated now, but it's actually resolved by one wise decision of the court that the contract didn't prescribe that blood would be lost or that meat would die around the heart. We have something like this here. Unfortunately, our Supreme Court did not have all the possibilities, did not meet all those demands that the Frank Association had previously filed in a collective lawsuit. But that's where the potential lies. We have proposed in that other law that will come to the agenda to at least make use of the fact that there is a foothold for interpreting that contributes to the debtors, only that we have to change the procedure that is otherwise envisaged. We can't risk another 70,000 individual lawsuits to get people satisfaction and justice, we can't do that. Therefore, although it may be less attractive than one such law, although it will be less stimulating and less enthusiastic about the debtors, what are the ways in which we can find the weaknesses of the banks as interested players in this case? I think that this orientation has a better chance because what should otherwise be achieved in such cases is that not abuse is one issue for the current election than to be a commitment based on a consensus of political parties going to elections, so that the obligation would be tough regardless of the result of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119019	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119020	I agree with you, professor, when you say that there was a danger when today's opposition came to power and that it would agree with banks because it has always done so and because their policy, a major capital policy that has helped in a variety of ways, even if it has done so legally, is not so much to object to. However, their economic programme, which no one has seen today, is still being exposed to Croatian courts and who otherwise consider what the government will do to us when we have banks. But as for the fear that the constitutional decree would also free the business, any honor of freedom of management and business, but this is not about freedom, this is about freedom of mind beginning which has demoted in will and will in extreme egoism that no longer has to do with freedom. Finally, the provision of Article 48i and the basic chapters of economic, social and cultural rights after the right of ownership is guaranteed is said to be binding. As banks acted responsibly, it is now too high to talk about it. So, I think what you said was getting away whenever they could because the weight of this government was because it was already learned behavior and now it's not just like that and that's why these and the first attempts to put that spirit back in the bottle. But the real danger or danger I think such a big one doesn't exist, but behavior if you come into such a position it stands here as we are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119021	Joseph Kregar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119022	I thank you for the opportunity to point out two important things here, first of all, we cannot prejudge whether there will be interpretation or attitude of the institution in relation to Articles 48 or 49. The Constitution. Article 1(1), first subparagraph, point (b) is replaced The property is untouchable, that it binds it is true but it will need to be interpreted, and I am not sure that this interpretation will affect the spirit and intentions of this law. We agree in one thing that there is a danger here of actually pre-election politicisation with the issue because if the government is going to SDP's will propose law, but for it will vote and everyone else, so they pleaded today. But what does that mean? That I can't get away with it for four months if by some miracle they come to power that they didn't know. You voted, so it obliges you. And that's what I think in this situation is impossible to fix. But someone needs to be warned. Remember, for example, when discussing our dispute with Slovenia and arbitration. There were MPs who stayed in the minority. What they're supposed to triumph today and say is I was... and how. Things have happened, it's just that we've actually been unanimously against such arbitration. I hope it doesn't come to that here, but I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119023	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119024	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Craig, you said in your debate that this law should not be used for pre-election purposes. So I'm sorry you say that because you know very well how long the government has actually been working on this problem and what it has done to solve it in a good way. So in 2013, the interest rate was fixed on loans related to Swiss francs to 3.23%, so the effect of the move was half a billion kuna on the burden of banks. In early 2015, when escalating, escalating the course of the Swiss franc, it was fixed at 6.39 kuna for the Swiss franc, and the effect of this measure was 400 million kuna again on the burden of banks. At the same time as those moves were taken, it is possible for banks, or a period of one year, to propose a permanent solution to this problem. Unfortunately, banks have calculated by counting exactly and with the support of the states from which the mothers of the banks and that solution, a mutually satisfactory solution, unfortunately by this time there was no and now the government has offered this solution, so the government is just doing its job. And I actually have to ask, is this your qualification that this is a pre-election move actually means that the government should not do anything in the past months before the elections without you qualified it as a pre-election move?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119025	Joseph Kregar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119026	Quite the opposite. I think the government has an obligation until the last moment of its term of office. But here I warn of the fact that what is proposed must not have such weakness to be challenged. And my conclusion is based on the fact that we had laws here a year ago and two years ago and in summer. So there were protests of the Franak Association where we sought urgent resolution of this issue. But it did wait a little while, and I'm not quite sure that there's a positive way of expressing the government's will to find a solution. I agree with you, however, in one. Here the banks didn't want a solution and they wanted this pre-election situation to be delayed because they run old, the rights will be lost and the loans will be charged. That's what I see as a danger. And when I was talking about pre-election, I didn't think it was that I didn't know what kind of manipulation it was. I'm just repeating, this moment is not good because everyone is actually trying to get as many votes as possible, they're going to vote in one way and with a mental reservation they're going to think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119027	I took a quick look at the agenda. There's no law like that. This is the first law that regulates this. Next in an individual debate, Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119028	Thank you. I think that there are no more problems in Croatia today than there are 62,000 citizens in debt slavery, but it is not 62,000 individuals, it is 62,000 families and actions of those who took loans from Austrian savings banks. Why did the citizens take loans in Swiss francs? Because that's when it paid off. Because at that point they were favourable loans. I now hear as well the citizens should be careful what they sign, they should be careful what loans they take, they could take even more unfavourable loans. And I can't be surprised at such complaints, who would take a crazy person's credit if he had a more favourable one? Why did banks offer loans in Swiss francs? Well, first of all, I didn't know that, but today I found out, banks didn't charge themselves in Swiss for the placement of such loans. Citizens didn't get Swiss, citizens got kunas. And was this whole operation actually imagined as one civil robbery by the banks that it was about? I don't know. These actions are still, even worse, the people remain without their property, yet some say they were greedy, not careful enough. Well, there are careless people, they're not all bankers, they're not all financial experts, they don't have to be. But when something like this happens and such a large scale, then the state has to step on the stage, then the government has to protect the citizens. This problem can be discussed with two aspects of professional and political. Part of this professional aspect was explained here by Minister Lalovac and Deputy Radenovic. We heard here both former ministers and Linic and Shuker, we heard a colleague, Maric, whom I also respect as an expert. And I'd like to say something about this political aspect because I don't know anything about this expert. The government is, every government is obliged to protect its citizens. The government was elected to run the country and was elected to lead it to the best benefit of its citizens. And when there's an incident like this no matter how and why it happened, there's no need to analyze the causes and pretend to be smart but to be effective, that's what this government is doing. Could the former governments have done that? They could have, this problem isn't since yesterday, it's not since 3.5 years ago, it's been existing for 7.8 years. Could the HDZ government have done so in 2011 when the first jump occurred? She could have. No, it's not. It'd be better if it was. I'd be happier, everyone would be and the citizens would be happier if they were. It's not. The HDZ government was involved in something other than 2011 at the time. She was charged with robbery, left without a boss, a situation for them very unfavourable, where I would be able to take care of the citizens right now, so the citizens weren't on their minds then. We heard here from counterpart Linic, there are two objections, two serious objections such as this law is not founded in the constitutional provision of Croatia as a social state and it is not well considered the aspect of a possible crime, meaning fraud, so it should have been dealt with differently. I listen to my colleague Linic and I'm surprised, my colleague Linic was a minister in this government when the problem already existed, today he offers a better legal solution than the one offered by this government. So why didn't he offer this same government to the same prime minister when he was a minister? If I had known that, I would have offered it here in the Parliament. I'm not a financial expert. I am looking at my colleague Marić as well, and he is also referring to him for 2011 as well. Well, it's not my fault, my colleague Craiger didn't have to know that. My colleague Kregar is a sociologist, I've completed philosophy, but experts, financial experts who are later smart today, and especially get on the nerves. What's this about? This law is not a crusade against banks, so you don't have to understand it. But in a conflict between banks and citizens, and this conflict no doubt exists, the government stands by the citizens. The prime minister of Karamark calls himself a lawyer, an advocate, a bank representative. The prime minister is obviously a citizen's representative here. And that conflict unfortunately exists. We have a bank agent and a citizen agent. I'm listening here to a respected colleague of the Kregars who says the banks deliberately stalled the solution to this problem, hoping that a new government will come and this will all fail. Very possibly. It is very possible that such an agreement exists between bankers and Karamarks because I listen to Karamark's statements and they suggest that such an agreement exists, that it is a bank agent against the citizens of this country, those who have fallen into debt slavery. I listen to my colleague Kregar, he says naively, but HDZ will still support this in the vote and it creates a commitment for them to do so. No, counterpart Kregar, HDZ voted for Cyrillic in the City Council of Vukovar when they had the political benefit of it, but as soon as they lost that political benefit, they were against it. It's the nature of HDZ behavior. Therefore, the fact that they will possibly vote for it tomorrow is no guarantee of anything, and in particular it is no guarantee for the citizens. They need to be warned. They say this law has some faults, says it's pre-election, at the last minute. Well, that's not true. This problem began in 2013 by fixing the interest rate, and continued to be resolved at the beginning of this year by fixing the course, so the banks were given time to propose solutions, they did not propose. So what do we have to let the citizens starve? The problem could have been solved earlier that banks had agreed to resolve, not to wait for Karamark, but since they are waiting for Karamark to be dealt with like this. They say that, I hear from the HDZ that the biggest problem is the greatest grudge against the pulsism of this law. Well, then the citizens must be afraid of their anti-pulsism. If they get a chance to act anti-populistic and the citizens will have to pay high rates of these loans again, it must be clear to them. It's the greatest danger to this law. There's no greater danger. The benefits and benefits are untold, so the wars will decrease to 50% for some, not for all, but for some they will decrease to 50%. The citizens will be left with more money, that money will be spent, that money will no longer go to the mothers of the banks in Austria and Italy, but will be spent here to stimulate total consumption, which will boost GDP growth, so this will be beneficial for the entire economy of the state. Therefore, there is no need for such a law, the objections are entirely unfounded, a danger like I said there is only one, that those who find fault with this to excuse them to bring this whole problem back to its former state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119029	Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119030	I thank Mr. Stazic. A well-conceived exposure to which I have three things to add, say or explain. First, I think that even today this law would not be on the agenda without one important element, and that is the public pressure of the damaged organized in various associations, Franak is just the tip of the iceberg I think, but without their protests, pressure and even support of public opinion would not have been such a serious consideration of this problem. Secondly, I agree with you that this is not a war with banks because if it were a war with banks, we would have to detect some of their advantages. Banks have money, banks have opportunities to influence the media. Banks can wait, banks can condition government certain behaviours to help obtain funds. And in the end, exactly, the faults of the law are no excuse, if they are noticed, they are bound if the law is supported. I'll even say this, I didn't support the law, but I'll vote for it. That's why I think that saying is worth it. No one can pay you as much as I can promise you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119031	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119032	The activities of the Franak Association are undoubtedly useful and any such form of public pressure, especially interested public is useful. He directs the government, he encourages it. It is also positive that the government listened to that call and responded to it. It would be terribly dangerous for this to be seen as a war with banks. Banks don't need to be seen as criminal associations. The bank has its own racio business. Like I said, banks aren't caritative institutions. They don't exist because of the money that would help someone. It's not their interest, their interest is profit, their interest is profit. And that interest should not be judged. Banks that wouldn't do business like that would fail. It was, banks were doing business at the first time HDZ administration when they were giving out, deliberately giving out plasmas, deliberately giving loans to HDZ's people knowing they wouldn't get them back, and that's already the form of bank robbery. And then the citizens had to resuscitate those banks five times before they sold. Now that's already a form of robbery. Today, if you'd come to the bank and say that you're being sent by the Prime Minister or I don't know who to give you a loan that you can't repay, I think they'd call an ambulance to take you to the asylum. That was 20 years ago. Therefore, we need to stand here in the protection of bankers and their legitimate business. Their interest in profit is as normal as possible. It wouldn't be normal if they wanted their profits to be as small as possible. But when such a problem arises that their desire for profit, their legal desire for profit threatens the existence of a large number of people, then they must react to it and that's what the government does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119033	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119034	My colleague Stazić, when you said that you only today learned that the sources of the bank had no Swiss francs and that financial experts, economists there had to know that today should not act as an ex-post mind and that you were surprised that they did not react in 2011. You kept looking at me and even calling me, so here's all I have to do to back it up with some conflicting facts. In 2011, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget met and discussed the Report of the Croatian National Bank in which the report was not accepted because there was no question about the problems of the Swiss franc. Among other things, 20 were the reasons, among other things, that it was not a Swiss franc and a currency clause. All members of the opposition then and two members of the Croatian Democratic Union voted in favour of the report, with the vote being voted by the president of the then HSS, me and two other members of the Croatian Democratic Union and Mile Horvat of the Serbian Democratic Party. The report was not accepted for that reason. In 2012 I took part in the film "In Marriage With Swiss" in January where no one else wanted to talk about this case from the policy of the word. The SDP didn't want anyone to participate in the film, and then I said that the government's non-reaction to any phenomenon is like it's not responding to fire or flood. And now you're calling me to keep my mouth shut in 2011 and tossing out and threatening to throw out the party what I'm talking about, and others keep quiet about it. I think so, and you know it, and I think it's because it's not correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119035	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119036	With all due respect, counterpart Maric, with all due respect, the non-acceptability of the Croatian Parliament's Croatian report in Croatia could not solve the problem of the Swiss citizens. The fact that you voted against that report is not the answer to the problem. No film, no film, no feature, no short film can save 62000 people from debt slavery. You have been honored by your courage, but you have not proposed the legal solution that this government has now proposed as neither a parliamentary representative nor within its HDZ. I trust you, I'm honest with you. I believe you've had your problems. I'm surprised you didn't have any bigger problems when you dared the HDZ to suggest or warn about a problem. Well, it's a good thing they didn't throw you out of the party. I'm surprised they didn't, because the others who did so had to fly away. You're meant to, you act within a party that, as I said, seems to have a bank agent for the president. And I won't be surprised if you get kicked out of the party for what you said today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119037	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119038	This is what it looks like when a normal, peaceful debate during the day ends with the presentation of fellow Stazic, who says he is not a financial expert, but precisely knows the impact of the conversion on GDP growth and explains it. The impact of conversion means the basis of this law, the Swiss into the euro, that this will affect the consumption and growth of GDP, but you are not a financial expert. Your debate is entirely more or less contradictory. It was meant to find someone on the other side who would be some kind of virtual enemy, who should be accused, to whom you should put some kind of label, regardless of what we clearly said during the day that we would support this law, you still need to say that someone would be an agent of the citizens, and someone would be an agent of the banks. Well, now that we're talking about this bank agent of mine as a citizen, more would convince me that someone like the prime minister got a loan that he couldn't get in some bank that's now as big an enemy as your current prime minister, or let his extended family in some Slovenian bank in Slovenia or someone from his rope or a wider family, another loan or someone who puts us in charge of a hundred billion public debt and then comes in and says hold the thieves, here's the bank agent. I'm not, hold him, look at him. I'm a citizen agent. Well, if he was a citizen agent for letting those citizens go to pre-election time. From 2011, thank God until 2015 is 4 years old, the same was the problem. You just have to make a deal when the problem starts. Peja Grbin said the other night that the problem started a year ago. And now you're saying that even that failed, poor HDZ has succeeded from the SDP minister, the finance minister has been able to get a loan in francs. Imagine that! How does that make sense? The minister succeeded in infecting himself with a toxic loan during HDZ and is now dealing with it in his own way. Very contradictory. And if it were worth who was for Cyrillic or against, when HDZ was for Cyrillic, you were against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119039	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119040	That doesn't bother you. And now you're in, and now someone else is against it. So what's the problem? If we stuck to it, you'd never be in power in the Republic of Croatia. You were against the independence of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119041	You think a hundred times repeated lie becomes true, doesn't become, doesn't become. Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119042	So listen, no lie can change the facts, and neither will yours. You can muddle the SDP for as long as you want, but you can only muddle it with lies because you can't spread the truth. But I leave it to you. I don't know who took some credit in which bank, I heard Karamarkov's wife took some big loan in a bank that didn't pay because the bank failed. I heard that yesterday at the current morning. I don't know if that's true, but the press is probably gonna check it out, so we're gonna read it on the cover these days. Well, if that's true, I'm afraid Karamarko will resent you very much for encouraging this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119043	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119044	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic here if I had a text, you'd come to me and you know who? Right from Nicole Machiavelli. You probably know what and who it is. Theorist, politician, diplomat, writer and doctrine that must be a successful politician. To twist the truth, to lie, to deceive his voters, to do everything to humiliate others, and to display himself as someone who is a savior, to make those same voters, or to make their subjects happy at that time, to make them happy. That's him. Today he rubs his hands because in the last two months, given how much you haven't done anything, this government has taken over his doctrine and he's satisfied. Both the Prime Minister and the Government and today, all of them with their own step, regardless of what we said would support this law but also pointed to a series of arguments, a series of problems that will happen again. Here comes 7800 refugees, dear colleague, and the prime minister yesterday has no connection, he says they'll just pass through here. Well, that's real mackjavelism. Congratulations, Mr. Machiavelli. You're the best of his medals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119045	Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119046	You got me a little confused when you said you got a text from Machiavelli, and then I realized it was poetry. You say you didn't do anything until 15 days ago, this government. GDP growth in the second quarter of 1.2, the third is likely to be 2%. You took over 5% of GDP growth, you destroyed everything, you shot it in the mud, you ruined it completely, you stole all the surpluses, you took it to the party register. Export growth 12%, industrial production growth 1.6%, VAT in 8 months 2.1 billion kuna more than last year, foreign investment 40% higher, unemployment at the lowest rate in the last 6 years, 72 000 employees more than 2 years ago. That's nothing to you?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119047	And on behalf of the proposer, final deputy finance minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119048	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is hard to return to reality after these fierce replicas, and what I thought, in fact, calmly, to conclude this debate because I was pleased by what I attended most and actually thanked all of you for your contribution to this debate. For a long time, there was talk in the Croatian public about Swiss, and there were many more difficult words in the public themselves, there were many arrivals, departures, protests. Here's a colleague of Frank's. They're one of the most persistent among you. There was one protest a day or two ago. There were also departures from meetings from this famous task force, etc., etc. But let's not discuss it all. The problem came back a long time ago, 2005 to 2007. 90% of the loans were said to be 1,000, 2000 in 2004, were 1,000, 2000 or 3000 in 2008 but the problem was 10 years old. And the problem hasn't been solved. A lot like I said talked, protested, sued, a lot of courts made some decisions. With this bill, I think it's his main advantage, we deal with this problem permanently. Someone here critically said half-sustainable. We are counting on it to be permanent, and that is precisely why this coverage of these loans is such that all those who are not paid off in any way that I am not going again into the details of this law are being solved by this problem. And how do they get rid of them? They are resolved justly because... all those who took the loan put themselves in a position with those in which other debtors, in which the largest number of debtors in Croatia are therefore in the euro, in the currency in which the Croats wanted to acknowledge it or not the most they like to save. And which, if we have called for expert arguments, there is no other basis in which credits can then be given, at least in a situation where we are now, at least with legal solutions like we are now, at least according to the rules of the profession as we have them now. And another main argument, why just? Simplify to the pain or something? Because the cost of this conversion, the return to the same position of all citizens of all debtors, goes to the burden of the stronger and we stand deep around it and that is the second fundamental point of this law. At the expense of those who are stronger in this debt religious relationship, therefore in the protection of consumers on the one hand, and on the other hand, the cost of the one who earned the previous years was a lot of discussion in this direction. I think everything, that almost everything went in that direction. So the goal is and the goal was this government, one reason for this law to be passed after I say two moves the government made, here's fellow Stazic's... and freezing interest i.e. determining the maximum interest on currencies that go over 20% and freezing interest after the second blow, this is the third and permanent solution. Who's to blame, why is he guilty in that quad of debt and slave relations of the bank? Those who took the loan, the government, the then government, the CNB, the then CNB, and the governors at the time are the least important today. I remind you there were the most criticisms perhaps about the work of the CNB, the governor of the CNB then and several years after that he was the most popular person in the Republic of Croatia. It has been calculated that it will go to elections, etc. So, we haven't solved the problem, but we're putting it in front of you right now, and I believe that tomorrow we're all going to pass this law together. It is therefore important to adopt this law and to respect all the arguments that have been made and that discussion of Mr. Kregar who, in one part, agree with. This law is not the best solution we're aware of. Perhaps no law of the world is the best solution and does not always rightly solve everything that can be solved but in any case the best possible solutions at this time. We're standing on it. We fixed it with one amendment, we'll fix it with some amendments from you and thank all the clubs that have given amendments and those that we'll accept and those that I believe with a good explanation we probably won't accept. So we will fix it with these amendments, and here I hope, in conclusion or preconceived, that tomorrow, despite all differences and problems given the importance of this law, and given the ten years of difficult debate and exhaustion, the difficult situations in which these people but also the entire Croatian public were believed that I might be too romantic but I believe that we can find the strength to bring this law to a consensus without a figurines in my pocket or at least a large, large majority in this House. And here's what's underneath the line or ps maybe not the least important part of the criticism I've been listening to, you've seen the vast majority of your debates today, the good part of the criticism was on the CNB, the position of the CNB, the personal, personnel solutions in the CNB itself, don't take too self-critically this Assembly as well as we as the Government are still on our way out. At the end of the week, some people will come here, the CNB Act after all this, after these 10 years of traumatic relations, it might be good to speak not as an official speaking as Igor Radenovic your former colleague, and now I think it would be good for the new people who come to this Parliament to deal with the most seriously in the next term and with the CNB law itself, that the next term of the Assembly be much more quality and better dealt with with with all the CNB reports that come to us on the same way as some other point, with those half-year reports, etc. If that's the benefit of all this lawmaking, I think we've hit a point. Because it is the Parliament who chooses the governor, it was the Parliament who chooses as many as 7 Vice-Governors and has the right to find the best possible solution for its work and for the stability of the financial system, which was established if I am not mistaken in Article 3 of the present CNB Act. Here, forgive me for this final dyspression. Once again, I believe, I hope that tomorrow this law will be the best possible solution that we can produce at this time and, as a necessary solution, be adopted by a large majority of your votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119049	Thank you. We have three replicas. First respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119050	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said that you thanked the debate because there were no hard words, although some say that but the debate was civilized, polite, except for those who referred always harsh words because they couldn't talk differently. It's the usual setting. When it comes to the motives of adoption, I must remind a little of and answer to the Vice President of the Parliament. About half a year ago, it was the thematic session of the Assembly Committee chaired by the president of the Parliament that I participated in and participated in. I have proposed the conversion of credit to the euro, and no one in the SDP has supported the proposal, and you are saying that this government has decided to solve the problem. If it hadn't been for the pressure, if it hadn't been for the movies, if it hadn't been for the strikes and if it hadn't been for this bill, we wouldn't have seen it. It is therefore necessary to say this and the motive is not to solve the problem but rather to solve and eliminate future possible problems but not to the Franak Association, not to the users of the credit, but to the future possible problems for the ruling coalition. That's the main motive. But even though it is, I support a bill like this. And an agent of the bank, an agent of the bank, is the one who came up with pre-war deals, it's the only bank agent, not someone else, and not who's voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119051	Reply to the replica of Deputy Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119052	That the purpose of my final address, the thought of leadership was right to forget what it was, how it was because everyone was carrying certain sins and we would not agree on it and two minutes was too short to explain in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and my own personally to think that sins which side or who in this relationship carried some greater amount of sin definitely. But the 2005 mention itself, 2007 when the problem escalated perhaps the best talk about it. But I'm saying it wasn't the goal, I'm glad, I don't know if you're aware or not aware of one of you, you actually told him that the main argument of this government is just to avoid its future problems, so I'm glad that you believe that the other government of Zoran Milanovic will lead this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119053	Replica Ivan Šimunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119054	Thank you. Dear Deputy Minister, taking into account the sensitivity of this topic today, the opinion is that the Croatian public, and especially the users of credit in Swiss francs, need to know some facts. HSP Ante Starcevic on 15.1.2015, i.e. on the day the course of the Swiss franc grew rapidly and offered a meaningful solution. On that day, we proposed the conversion of the loans in question to the euro or kuna and not to the cost of the banks, and not to the debtor. We are pleased that eight months after our proposal, the government had the strength to make certain moves even though it could have been long ago, not in this pre-election time, because citizens must live before the election. We will, of course, support this bill because it corresponds to those who are damaged, which are citizens. However, we do not understand why some other models such as conversion into kuna are not offered, but we are afraid that they are hastily tied to the euro. And today most credit users in the Swiss francs with whom we have contact intend to raise loans in kunas, and we know when they raise loans in kunas and return that they will only earn who but the banks again. I will repeat, the HSP will support this second-hand solution to the French debtor's problem and only because they accepted the proposal themselves, but if we want to be honest, they didn't have any option. It was either take it or leave it. I want to tell all credit users in any foreign currency that HSP Ante Starcevic will never allow the greed of foreign banks to destroy Croatian citizens and the Croatian future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119055	Reply to the replica of Deputy Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard for me to respond to the replica since I see that you've written that speech before and it's hardly a reply to the replica. I'm sorry if you didn't, I know you don't have a club and you're a small party and you can't do it on behalf of the club, but it would have been good if there had been a debate in an individual debate and a good Croatian public heard what your party thought. It might be a good idea for this clarification, and I was just saying it in the end that it's not a good thing that we're conditionally accepting this law. I am once again responding indirectly to your replica thanks to everyone who has tried to amend this law with amendments and we will fix it from what the Government has adopted today from these amendments as soon as possible, and in these few hours we will consider as much as possible and here I hope this is the point of everything. But come on, we've all made our political views about the future, so maybe this is a good argument and another argument to this final point that it's a good thing that this law still solves the problem of the Swiss franc, so we won't discuss it so politically anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119057	And the last replica of Branka Juricchev-Marinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119058	Thank you very much. So, dear Deputy Minister Radenovic, as you appeal to us to pass this law unanimously, that we all raise our hands for him. Here I am, and all of us at the HDZ Club are appealing to you that this law applies to all our citizens and entrepreneurs and craftsmen and their workers, meaning that we are not only going to one category, but to all citizens that we are not putting some of them as citizens of the second order on the side when the law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119059	Reply to the replica of Deputy Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. So some of these categories or almost all of these categories to this law apply, not to the Consumer Credit Act, but to the law as I like to tell us the favorite law of the ZOKI, I can now close a little, so the Credit Institutions Act. There are opgs and craftsmen, free professions and much wider. So in one sentence, the scope of this law is equal to the scope of that law of those entities that we had when we passed the last law, when we adopted course fixing at the beginning of this year. Therefore, the largest number of them has been entered there. I mean, I don't really think, but I read that the minister, his phonogram, that the minister explained it very well in the opening statement, if they reached out to it then the law at the first instance would unfortunately fall around all of these institutions that are complaining about this law, and you know who it is. So, unfortunately, we can't accept that amendment because otherwise, we would have failed the whole law, and then we certainly couldn't, and here's Mr. Kregar as a legal authority, and then it's easier for me, and then everything good in this law would fall into the water, and that's what this government doesn't want, and I hope it doesn't now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119061	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119062	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 900. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted according to a separate table. Let's go, dear Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radenovic. Dear Rajenovic, we're in order. Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club is not accepted on the grounds that amendments to the Credit Institutions Act protect certain groups of entrepreneurs and, above all, those entrepreneurs whose relatively small volume of their business made it most difficult to protect their credit obligations... spill out. These are holders of free professions, craftsmen and traders of individuals and holders of the OPG. And if they exist as a business option, derivative financial instruments which would be protected by those entrepreneurs from changing the Swiss franc rate are not primarily for price reasons capable of being used by that group of clients of credit institutions. Therefore, enlargement cannot be accepted on legal persons as well. The same amendment and the next two amendments, which is why there is a broader explanation, but later on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119064	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119065	The HDZ Club submitted this amendment for three reasons. First, when converting into European credits, to retain all rights which had preferential rights in terms of interest rates of the same consumer group and to retain on the purpose of the credit within the period of payment, duration, etc., to specify more clearly whether it is a succession or a linear payment. It is claimed from the explanation that it is supremacy, but according to this law, it turns out that it can be paid even to the end of the payment, regardless of the 100 kuna can be reduced by war and to the end of the payment. We believe that this should be made more clear in order to make it a surplus payment. At the same time to delete.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119066	This ZOKI? We're talking about ZOKI.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119067	Excuse me, excuse me. The HDZ Club has submitted this amendment to equalise those who are not in an equal position because of the provision of this law because all those who were users of credit in Swiss francs are not in the same position. There are also those who have paid off the loans, there are those who have severed the credit relationship, there are those who have borrowed, and the companies have been, there are units of local self-government, you draw this only one group, and the others get the satisfaction of only one garden in Swiss franc loans, and we support it, but we demand that all groups be equal because if it comes to the refund of the amount paid, and you claim in the law that the amount paid is paid, then that amount should be paid back to all those who had credit in Swiss francs regardless of their condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119068	Are you asking for a vote? Please vote on amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club No. 1 which the government does not accept. [[Agreement: Goran Marić: I demand a vote.]] The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move to Amendment number 2 of MPs Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. The coverage of credit users is the same as in previous changes, the justification is the same as with the first amendment it is practically the same, therefore the Government cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119070	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, I am not satisfied with your answer for the reason why this law is being passed in order to protect Croatian citizens from the misdemeanor goods as you yourself have established the nature of the credit in Swiss francs. By defending the principle of equality, and wanting this law to be comprehensive and to protect all citizens who are directly and indirectly affected, we insist that this law applies not only to natural persons but also to legal persons, is it equally endangered workers, employees of companies that have raised loans in Swiss francs that cannot be returned. If we pass a law like this, we have not passed a law that brings all the actors of this story into an equal position and we pass a law that is also a commodity with a mistake of only legal nature. That is why I insist on voting on this amendment because I think it is fair in one constitutional state that for all those who are damaged by this kind of mistake we are trying to resolve this law, we must bring all citizens and all entities in Croatia into an equal position. As well as users of loans in Swiss francs after this law should have the same position and rights as all users of credits of other types in Croatia, and we did not resolve this by this law until the end. We will support this law, but we believe that there are falsifications that are partly corrected by this amendment, so I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119072	Please vote on the amendment of respected representative Petar Baranovic, the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. I'd like an explanation and a view of the government over Amendment number three of Branko Hrg's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119073	The Government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119074	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119075	Thank you, Mr. President, so sometimes only once again do what's said. So we have here different treatment of the users of the credit in Swiss. And today when we vote on this part, we must consider whether we have achieved the right goal, the full goal. So this law probably goes towards the social security of citizens, those who have been raising loans in Swiss. So let's think about whether, when we refuse this amendment, we're going to shut down maybe in some company, a few dozen jobs. I really don't see any reason why someone who is a natural person lifts a loan, buys a yacht, some expensive car, builds apartments or something else luxurious and, on the other hand, some company has raised a loan so that they can do business and keep jobs, so they won't have this right of release and that natural person who is working... his maybe and the luxury he didn't need will get that release. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you to really think about it, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119076	May I have your attention, please? The vote is on Amendment No. The third respected representative of Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 3. didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 4th Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119077	Amendment No. 4th Gjurkovic's representative, the government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119078	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119079	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119080	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Let's go to Amendment No. The 5th same representative of the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119081	We also accept Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119082	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119083	We also accept Amendment No. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119084	And you accept that one?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119085	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119086	Great. Amendment No. Seven. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119087	Amendment No. Seven. We also accept the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119088	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. No more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119089	There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119090	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote on the final bill. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119371	Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Fund Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 902. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Of course. Minister of Labour and Pension System Professor Dr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Pension Fund Act, with the Final Bill that we want in some way to resolve the issue of all issues, which is what the standard of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is and to contribute to that standard being at least slightly better because of the crisis in which we are and because the crisis in Croatia has affected all these years. But here things are improving, we're coming out of the crisis and on the other hand jobs are opening up, employment is increasing, which will then and in the future will allow the relationship between the pensioners and the employees to be greater to make more contributions and ultimately to both standards and pensions. As is known, the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia from 12 May 1998 was adopted to compensate the beneficiaries of the pension which took place due to the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September 1993 to 31 December 1998 through a special fund. Under the Retirement Fund Act, the Pension Fund was established from which the pension beneficiaries or their successors from the first inheritance line of each year paid the sums of individual compensations by two models. The model A according to which the payment of half the compensation was made within 2 years and model B according to which the compensation was carried out within 6 years starting from, starting from 2 years. The pension fund was set up as an investment fund in which the state was to give shares and to raise funds by selling those shares so that these payments would go on a regular basis. However, all governments reached for the other way, which means that the shares were sold and then through this account that was in HPB Invest that through this account I had recapitalised the fund and then paid the pensioners their deficits. Why did it go to the investment fund, very pragmatic because the payments from the investment fund were not taxable and this was also for the benefit of the state and also for the benefit of the pensioners. In the period from 2006 to 2013, HPB Invest's pension fund management company paid a total of more than 10 billion kuna for compensation for 488081 members of the pension fund. As HPB Invest paid off the last 6 wars of the pension debt on 19 December 2013, the Republic of Croatia, in doing so as the founder of the Pension Fund, carried out its... Reimbursement payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill proposes that the remaining funds relating to the outstanding shares of deceased members of the Pension Fund who do not have the successors of the First Heritage Order as well as the funds of members of the Pension Fund who did not make a statement within the prescribed period on the method of payment of the pension fund and who have become property of the Republic of Croatia for the payment of the one-off payment of pension beneficiaries realised in compulsory retirement insurance of generation solidarity. The deadline when we can do so is 18.12., 18.December of this year and by amending this law we allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine within 30 days of the entry into force of this law a decision on the payment of the one-time payment of the beneficiaries of the pension and that payment will be carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The funds for the payment of that one-time cash return will be provided from the dedicated income, hence the funds, re-scheduled funds from the Pension Fund of 190 million kuna and will then be paid to all pensioners behind 18.12. ... What will be the government's proposal to make that payment socially sensitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that means that those who have the lowest pensions below 1000 kuna get more somewhere between 300 and 350 kuna and those who have bigger pensions to make that payment 100 kuna. The range will be determined by the government and we hope that this law will receive support from all clubs because it is socially sensitive. On the other hand he... It increases the deficit, which is not what we're in debt for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, and as far as the pensioners are concerned, we cannot do it, but now because by disbanding the Parliament and not by changing this law, these funds are transferred to the state budget on 18.12, so not to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, but to the state budget. I hope all clubs will support this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119373	We're moving on to replicas. First Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119374	I thank the Honorable Vice President, thanks to the honourable ministers for today's discussion of the addition of this law, that is, what we will vote tomorrow because by this amendment and by addition we will allow pensioners who are the most sensitive and I would say the most vulnerable social category in the Republic of Croatia and pay off this one-time assistance. And you reiterated that these are not funds that burden the budget, but from the Pension Fund and that it is not a pre-election trick, but it is precisely a concern for our citizens who are truly the most socially sensitive and vulnerable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119375	Reply to the replica Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119376	So in pre-election time all you try to do is pre-election trick, i.e. pre-election giving, pre-election bribery, but as anyone says. Certainly, for this one, so for this decision and for the very act to be done, we couldn't have done it sooner or later. I note that before 18.12., we cannot dispose of these resources without re-designing the funds, so if we do not allow the Government to make this decision from 18.12. these funds are automatically transferred from the account to the budget of the Republic of Croatia because it is owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is the owner of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119377	The second replica is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119378	Thank you very much. It's nice to listen like this aren't pre-election stunts and stuff and play on the ones that are the most sensitive and the ones that are at this point the most threatened. This fund was established with a clear intention, it was allocated large assets, assets from the sale of shares of INA, assets from the sale of HT shares, and still the state had to borrow later because that was not enough either. However, what I have reported for the replica, Mr. Minister, is incorrect that this is not a deficit of the state budget. So all the funds allocated to the pensioners, regardless of what most of these funds were practically secured from sources that were not revenue from the state budget, were treated as government budget deficits in the year that those funds were allocated. Therefore, you cannot say that it is not a deficit of the state budget, it was a deficit of the state budget at the time that these funds were allocated to the fund. Therefore, for the sake of correctness and for the sake of truth... it should be said for the reasons why we like to impose for political reasons what deficits were some years, so in some years, the deficit of the state budget would be less than 0.8% if they had not gone towards this pension fund. I say, the political assessment and the assessment of the government is, but what image you send with these decisions will be answered by those who follow you in measures of excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119379	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119380	Yes, it's rare that the Honorable Representative Shucker and I agree but I didn't say it wasn't a deficit, it wasn't a budget deficit this year, it was a deficit of those budgets before, but the transfer of 18.12 would be the revenue of this budget this year. Therefore, we do not think that it would do much better to improve the state budget, and we think that it is much better for the pensioners to receive this one-time payment before Christmas. The election will show whether we were right or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119381	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the ORAH will speak for the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119382	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't think there's anyone here in this House who would be against giving pensioners even one-time help, and I don't think it's gonna be a problem to pass this bill that has three articles, and that law will help part of the pensioners get some kuna, and especially what the minister said if they're going to take care that those pensioners with smaller pensions get a bigger amount, then it's anyway commendable. But what I'm trying to say, and that's a question and what's going through the public, is this a pre-election trick, is it based on this bill to buy votes, etc. Well, no one can claim that such a law as it was written couldn't have been passed six months ago, could not have been passed a year ago, and the payment clearly could have gone to 18.12 this year. And then these stories about pre-election tricks, buying votes, they wouldn't be current today, but, well, the law is passed a few days before Parliament's disbandment, and no one can say that it's not buying votes in pensioners, especially when it comes to this sensitive population. Clearly, the ORAH club will support this law, but what we have to specifically point out here is that somewhere if we take that there are a million and 130 thousand pensioners, the minister has said here and I am sorry that there was no part of the data in the materials that existed somewhere around 190 million kuna, and in the end we have the information as to how many pensioners died, and that there was no heir, so that there was no real part of the data, that they failed to submit this request on that other basis, and they did not exercise that right to pay them out of the Pension Fund funds. Because I think when we bring some and we change certain laws then that and some of that data should have been attached inside it so that they also deal with certain data based on which this group and which have not numberedly realised their right under the law and on the basis of the fact that the current pensioners are going to get a Christmas card. In particular, I think it is very necessary for these 460,000 pensioners who have a pension of about 2,000 kuna or less, up to 2,000 kuna, and that's something that's numerical if we take about 40% of the pensioners. It is clear that every kuna is needed, and I would especially like it to be as the minister said, that they get a significantly higher amount. And it would be fair and nice if it weren't for the purchase of votes, if we knew exactly today and we had the information according to the pensioners' receipts as much as any pensioners would get towards the level of their pensions, and maybe it would be fair to them, and this way probably will be the election, but that information about how many groups of pensioners might get the financial amount may not be in public, perhaps only when the elections pass will it be known how much they will get. And when we talk here about socially sensitive groups of pensioners, and then I have to say here for part of a group of pensioners, and in particular I'm going to say about two groups, and these are pensioners who are permanently damaged, about 10 grand of them, who have been working for over 41 years, but because they were then subject to a certain law, they've been retired and their pension has been reduced and they're practically permanently damaged. I think that there was hearing from that group that this injustice prayed for these pensioners to be corrected, because according to some data, it would have been an annual expenditure of about 30 million kunas and in this whole situation, and we can see now that this budget has achieved significantly higher funds based on the tax. That part of the group of pensioners could in some way have been derailed, not in a way that pays them retroactive rights that they have achieved, but from the moment the law was passed to exercise that right and to equalise themselves with pensioners who now retire and have over 41 years of training and 60 years of life. And I need to look back here, too, on another group of pensioners. They're a little under 4,000. These are pensioners from Royal Insurance who for a year and a half receive some and up to 500 kuna less compensation from Royal Insurance for which this same government had no hearing until now and what is too heavy, are doing around 250 companies mostly state-owned and these pensioners who have been paid practically to pay them through the Royal Insurance difference in pensions have been permanently damaged. And so far, this government has not found a hearing to correct this injustice. I primarily wanted to point out these two injustices when we also talk about the pensioners' social group what the minister said would help them through this part of the one-time payment. But these two groups were also not heard by this government to correct the injustices and that they were practically accomplishing something that other pensioners had. But that's what it is. Perhaps some other government will take care of that. As I said, the ORAH club will support this law, because I think it is in any case useful in that part of the pensioners who are socially endangered, to those I was saying there are 460,000 with incomes below 2,000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119383	Thank you, too. We have reported three replicas, Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119384	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Tušak. I definitely agree with some of the things you said in the debate, and I believe everyone else will be very welcome for our pensioners. And we agree on the need to manage and make sure that those with larger pensions get something less, those with the lowest pensions will get the highest amount. But what I disagree with you, and in fact I have to ask you in some way, so when you say this is a pre-election trick, it is said in the law that the payment deadline for the fund members expires on 18 December 2015. That's actually what you suggest when you say the law didn't come before. So I think what you're suggesting is that last year's bill was to be passed, and the deadline expires on December 18, 2015, so someone wouldn't think it was a pre-election trick. And I guess it would be best for you to have the government for the last two months, so I guess we're not doing anything anymore in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119385	Thank you. A colleague's answer to the shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119386	My fellow Members, if you had read the law of three articles, you would not have spoken like this, because the law clearly states: "The law gives only a certain possibility and gives a question to the Government that should be decided within 30 days." Such a law as it was written could have been passed six months ago, and the payment could only be made after 18.12. So the question of the law here is not at all problematic and self-involved within it when you say it is, this is a really pre-election trick and buying votes particularly sensitive and it's a question of the population of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119387	Thank you. Zeljko Schamper, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, I would not agree with you as it is said to be a pre-election trick or a populist move, because we are talking about all the laws that are passed more or less in this election year. And it's proof that pensioners for these 100 or 300 kunas that it won't be crucial, because they've been getting significantly higher amounts over the last six years. So 10 billion these six years shared that compensation and they weren't, that money wasn't decided because every pensioner has his own party. It's mostly HDZ, SDP possibly HSU. And therefore, even that great money can't be, and this little one can't be determined who they're going to give their vote to now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119389	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119390	Thank you. Well, colleague Schamper, clearly you and I can have different thoughts and clearly we don't have to think the same. You can claim it won't be. I'll argue that, because as I said before, the law could have been passed long ago, and most importantly, if you thought this law then they could be said according to the age group as much as who and the pensioners by the receipts would get. Why don't we know today when we're passing this law? We do not know because, behold, we have given hope to the pensioners, and that hope will be in some way and determined to vote in favour of the coalition. But okay. Citizens, if they believe, give the voice, they are adult. It's their right to vote for, and it's my same right to say that this law could have been passed long ago, so there would be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119391	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119392	We are practically in the last days of the meeting of this assembly, and one Government has passed a law offered with what it inherited, which is the Law on the takeover of power. So, from the moment the Parliament is disbanded, the current government, which practically becomes technical by the end of the term of office, cannot make any decision that makes any commitment to the new government, any decision. Now the question is, are the provisions of this law contrary to that law? I don't think so. Why? Because, by all standards of the Budget Law, we share budget revenue. This is budget income, what stays inside and the government re-scheduls it for something else that is completely and legitimately right until it's slowed down. But that's when it happens and what time period it takes. The second thing, what in general bothers me in life in decisions like this when money is shared, then it is very clear that a social criterion should be set. Someone who has a pension of 4 or 5 thousand kuna, it's not a big pension to get along with the cost of living, I don't think this money, so someone doesn't get me wrong, is going to help a lot. But someone who has a pension of 1500 or 1600 kuna to get what they're going to get 50 or 60 kuna or 100 kuna more will be very helpful because they need it more. Therefore, we make a decision just to say that we will do something and then someone will later pass this House of High will make criteria and ways. And what I'm saying is, it makes a commitment to a new government because this government won't be able to pay it off because it simply won't be able to make the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119393	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119394	Thank you. Well, I believe that no one's going to ask a question about the law and no one's going to argue with it by counting that the pensioners really need every kuna. By agreeing with you in this section when you said there were certain criteria and that today when we bring them, not today, but when there will be a vote and when we will pass this law, then to know the criteria, and especially within that to highlight social criteria. Those who have fewer pensions to get even higher incomes because they clearly need these funds more. Clearly, those who have larger pensions may even be in one part of those with large pensions not to get anything. It may not be fair to them, but they'd probably be solidarity with those who have very little. Because part of the pensioner lives very hard, very hard to survive, and probably part of them might have retired, and maybe they're paying off these loans in Swiss from the previous point we discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119395	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119396	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, Deputys, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill to supplement the Pension Fund Act. So, the same fund that was founded in 2006 to compensate pensioners or to pay back their pensions. Since these same payments were made by model A and B, the fund paid compensation to all the fund members who submitted the applications. The deadline expires in 18.12.2015 and the government's proposal is that for the remaining and outstanding funds remaining in the amount of about 191 million kunas are not left to the state budget because that amount for the budget of around 120 billion, the 18 billion deficit would not be significant. The government suggests funds that have been allocated to the Republic of Croatia are re-scheduled for payment of one-time monetary income to pensioners. It will decide who and what amount of payment will be made, so the circle and the way of distribution will be determined. They say this will improve the material position of the pensioners and thus show social sensitivity. My colleagues and colleagues, any assistance to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia was the minimum, should be supported, but it is clear to everyone that this is the pre-election activity of the Government and the Kukuriku coalition and serves for promotional purposes. Regardless of the replicas that follow, that's our attitude, and I don't think it should be particularly answered. Well, the minister himself said that the citizens would see whether or not they were going to see each other for the results. Yesterday, Minister Mrsic was asked in his current question about this law in the sense that the opposition is. HDZ is sorry the government is helping the pensioners. Of course that's not true. We're sorry the government's not helping the pensioners very much. This aid is used for pre-election purposes, so we can't take the impression of the image of the Prime Minister as a Santa giving gifts. But the gifts are all cheered up so some and these minimum amounts will be a pre-election gift, a Christmas gift from this government. When we talk about pensioners, we often talk about the number of pensioners who have about a million and 200 thousand, about the unfavourable relationship between the pensioners and the persons employed, employees who, by their work or contributions, are full of the pension fund, and that ratio is about 1 to 1.18. We're talking about pensions that can't be bigger for this very reason, just from this ratio. We're saying that the average pension is full around 2266 and full of 2466 kuna. Often, there is even talk of a possible reduction in pensions or possible termination of pension payments in the future. We are talking about the lack of funding from the Intergenerational Solidarity Fund, the share of pensions in a national gross product of around 12%, the share of pensions compared to salaries of about 41% and 44.40 years of age compared to gross wages. However, the topic is increasingly demanding a debate on the social economic situation of pensioners. According to their pensions, the pensioners became a social category, became social cases, humiliated because some after 30 and 40 years of employment do not have enough for their lives. The cost of dwellings exceeds pensions, food, clothing, medicines, transports, since they pay transport services because they are reduced mobile and many other things cross their receipts. The demographic picture of society is inexorable, the pensioner is growing more, the elderly are growing more, the proportion of over 65 years old in the total population crossing somewhere and 24%. We point out that at the age of three, we have a fourth life span to extend life span. However, the age is burdensome with difficult problems. We also point out the often need for active and healthy aging, and at the same time we do not have secured basic living conditions for older people. Single pensioners are particularly in a difficult position. In our society, we are discussing the need to combat all forms of discrimination, and good discrimination is very much present. It is often thought that older people do not need much, and age monitors additional difficulties and for the quality of life - organization older people need substantial resources than their pensions. The austerity measures that this government started affected the first elderly. By changing the rules on orthopaedic aids, reducing property and income censorship in order to achieve material and monetary rights and social services, the inaccessibility of law enforcement bodies such as personal disability, aid and care allowances and so on, the abolition of non-institutional care, the help of both the house or the restriction of the right to the same and much more than it will get from this Christmas machine which has only a propaganda role in the service of the Government of Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119397	Thank you. I have replicas. Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119398	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Murganic, you mentioned the date of 18.12. that is the date that should actually be after all the election dates, something is always said at the 11th month, so it reminds me a little of that story about elections and shoes, left and right shoes. This law reminds me of that. This law is a left shoe, so when the shoes are finished, then we can go straight in 12 months and get our right shoe. And the minister himself didn't even hide it in his debate, so we'll see. Well, we'll see. I personally think that all of these measures and all of this is in some way maybe even, we call them populism but that it's still underestimating citizens and their powers and thinking and even their own work and everything because whoever counts that he hasn't done anything for 4 years or 3.5 years so we show up in the last quarter and do something, offer, share, etc. So we'll still be able to do something about it. I think he's underestimating himself and everything around him. So we support this because we know that Croatian pensioners live and all the time the government forgets to tell them what she's done to them over the past four years. If we had collected their electricity, gas, heating, anything else that could have been collected, and this one is definitely going to help make up for something a little bit. This work in the excessive deficit procedure is obviously allowed, so we can determine that these are not State budget funds and that they are not interested in anyone too much, and that 200 million kuna will be in our budget. And it's all going to lead to this security agent they're talking about, the citizen agent is going to be fired together anyway in this election, and I think all of his merchants who are going around Croatia these days are saying that they're working successfully, that they've done everything because they're citizens, and I'm saying they don't need to be underestimated in what they already know, and that's, I think the big majority is sure who they're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119399	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119400	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Boris, that I am also in my debate, touched that we appreciate any form of assistance to older and poor citizens since we know very well that if someone has a pension below 1000 kuna that what is worth 200 or 350 kuna we do not already know what is going to be cut, or quotas and method of calculation and payment. They will certainly benefit them, they will benefit them, but they will not reduce all the problems that pensioners face on a daily basis. There are many other instruments, there are still regulations and rights that can be achieved from other systems which, due to the inaction of this government, and I will now repeat and appeal to the minister and the deputy, since the body of art has moved into their portfolio have been abolished. They're cut off a month by a lot more than these 350 kunas and a year, or one-time payments for extras for help and care they don't get because they don't work the body of art, they're 500 kuna. For reduced allowances of 350 kuna, they can exercise rights to orthopaedic aids, they can exercise rights to personal disability, not only those but also children, or those who care for them, who make life easier for them. Much more is the life of the pensioners, yes, ministers, much more is the life of the pensioners and not just this one-time payout.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119401	Thank you. Miss twilight replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, of course, no one can say, and I mean neither in this House, but no one is honest that their pensioners are with young people, and those who don't work, and those who are blocked, with those who won't find a job as vulnerable as children. They've worked their whole lives, they have nothing to live on today. Well, of course they need help. However, there is a good saying one edict, "Don't trust the Danes or gifts when they're carrying" because this law says it's an obligation every year to pay off the Christmas pensioners, yet one could imagine that this government is serious and honest. However, a bunch of vouchers that are shared, poured on all sides there's money, it kind of reminds me you know ministers at the wedding when they yell "The Godfathers burn your bag," and then he pulls out coins and throws them away, so do you. But the people don't believe it anymore. And it's good, let us support, of course, thank God, but it's not a people who are naive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119403	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119404	Thank you. Yeah, you said and you started and on that part of your replica I'll keep that pensioners are popular expression, the most vulnerable group. Even those who have good income and who have good income, even those who have family support. Although family support is getting smaller because the less employed we know that we have a situation where pensions are almost the only income and that with these small pensions they help their unemployed children. That is why I believe and therefore my debate, or our debate in this direction, will not solve everything just one-time payments, a lot of countries can do if they think, realize that the older people are the category they need to protect, through the institutions, through the system, and not let through associations, through various one-time competitions help older people and just when they get the help they needed because of the lack of funds, because of the limitations of the duration of a programme be left without it. Geronto housewives, housewives are very important and necessary and they cost little, and the state has seen, among other things, savings on them. It's not all your portfolio, but this part I was talking about earlier is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119405	Thank you. On behalf of SDP Representative Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So here we are today before us the proposal for a law supplementing the Retirement Fund Act, with the final bill of law and of course and already from previous discussions is this law seems to be all we're going to do at this last session is that it's pre-election law. And the question arises, why didn't we bring it up any more? We could have done it a year ago. If we brought in a year ago I guess we'd be in style, but you bring it, who knows what's going to happen in a year, it's only at the end of next year, it won't be respected everyone will forget about it and so on. So we believe in the SDP club that this law is just being passed responsibly and practically immediately before the pension funds can be released. Here, colleagues from the HDZ Club were talking about wage cuts and pension cuts, I'm sorry about who cuts salaries and pensions, who's talking about wage cuts and pension cuts? If I'm not mistaken, that's exactly what the HDZ ranks came from, or from experts from foreign institutes who are working on programs that tell you about possible pension cuts and salaries, of course, when you take power one day. What should be recalled is that the Pension Fund was created under the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia relating to the compensation of pensioners for the period from 1.9.1993 to 31.12.1998, when the HDZ Government then was unable to or could not pass the law under which it would have been done but made a decision on the basis of which the Constitutional Court then made its decision in 1998. It should then be recalled that it was this period of war, directly after the period in which it happened that more than 400,000 jobs were shut down through conversion and privatisation in the middle of the war in Croatia and that then the number of pensioners grew to about a million and when people were sent into retirement, and in full strength and they could work and fill the same Mirovinski Fund for years. And today, when we are actually doing the only fair thing, and it is that these funds from this fund that have remained because unfortunately one part of the damaged pensioners died in the meantime, they have no heirs who have the right to make it or not in time to deliver all the papers or to make a claim for compensation and most just that that money is distributed to our pensioners. They are available today in Croatia for August 2015, a million 131 thousand 312 pensioners with an average pension of 2.233.21 kuna, with the highest in the categories that receive between 2 thousand and 316 thousand 956 users, and 233,000 576 users are in the range of 1,500 to 2,000 kuna. What should also be said about what this government has done, and I guess it should be reminded that we have instituted a re-ordination of pensions. So this is exactly what this government has done. And as far as we're concerned, you can still say that this is a pre-election law because we don't agree that we don't pass laws until the end of the Parliament's session and that we don't work. And whether it's a pre-election trick, it can't be a trick, a respected colleague and a colleague because it's something the pensioners will get. So today, with the amendments to this law, we oblige the government to make a decision to distribute these funds and, of course, consider them just and that the greater amount of the Christmas card will be given to just those who have the least pensions and a slightly smaller amount of those who have slightly more pensions. Finally, we believe that this is also in line, I was when we were working, when we spoke at an extraordinary session on amendments to the social care law, then I reminded all of us that there is something called a strategy against poverty in the Republic of Croatia, that there is a programme that was made at the beginning of this year, and that this law too is part of that programme, so something that this government has done, not one government before it. As I do not repeat everything that is happening with these amendments to the law, it is therefore essential to enable the Government to pay off from 18 December, to make a decision within 30 days and to pay off that one supplement after 18 December, one time to all our pensioners in a way that we consider fair. So the SDP Club is very supportive of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119407	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119408	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Today and yesterday, we've heard a lot about the problem we're discussing today and the law we're making. With this addition to the Pension Fund Act, one successful multi-annual project on the compensation of 488 thousand pensioners totalling 10 billion 252 million between 2006 and 2013. This was the result of the demands of all pensioners' associations and their political representative of the Croatian Party of pensioners who had voted the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, which arranged the compensation of pensioners who had been harmonised by the law in the period from September '93. until December '98. A year. Under the law, a special pension fund was established from which the damaged beneficiaries of pensions or their successors from the first inheritance order each year paid the sum of individual compensations by two models. The model A according to which half of the compensation was made within 2 years. They agreed to this model and decided as many as 75% of the pensioners in view of their illness and their age. Model B, according to which the compensation was made within 6 years with a start of 2 years, was decided by 25% of the pensioners. The pension fund was managed by the HPB Invest management company, which paid the last 6th War of Reimbursement on 19 December 2013 and after that last payment in the fund remained a balance of 190 million kuna from deceased fund members who had no successors of the 1st Order and members who did not provide the necessary information on the prescribed form for the payment of the compensation within 2 years. This deadline expires on 18 December 2015, and now on the initiative of the HSU and the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, this addition of the law proposes that these funds, which would otherwise belong to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, be re-scheduled for payment of one-off monetary income, which is popularly referred to as the pension goddess of pensioners from the Generation Solidarity System, be in line with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the circle of users, the amount and the method of payment according to the social criterion of a smaller pension, a larger amount and a higher pension of a smaller amount of Christmas. Of course, the Croatian Retirement Party club will support this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119409	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119410	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. According to data in June, the average salary in Croatia was 5810 kuna and the average pension of 2234 kuna, i.e. the average pension was 38.46% of the average salary. Or if we apply the data at the level of gross wages, then it is more common, it is only 27.7% and according to this indicator we are only 24 places among the countries of the European Union. I'm not going into the analysis of the reasons that have affected this relationship so far. There are more and certainly that the proportion of persons employed compared to the number of pensioners is one of the most important. However, I would like to warn of a situation where there are a large number of pensioners who receive a pension below or around the average, their standards and living conditions. How do you change that? In what way and how are social programs being helped, and how can this help be increased? And in particular, that every kind of help is welcome. For this reason, I welcome the initiative and commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a proposal to amend the Pension Fund Act. In other words, this means that it would provide an amount of 191 million kuna and that would be used to the greatest extent precisely or would be used by this particular category of pensioners. As these funds were created and accumulated, the minister spoke exhaustively and some predecessors, so I'm going to skip it. And why the law now and not before? The deadline for payment of the share to the fund members, which expires on December 18th, actually created the possibility, and this law proposes that those funds belonging to the Republic of Croatia be re-used to pay one-time monetary income to pensioners in the mandatory pension insurance system of generation solidarity. In this way, it is also possible to make such funds available, i.e. to pay one-off income to pensioners and to improve their material position. It should be pointed out that all important issues, as well as the technique itself, relating to the payment of one-off monetary income to pensioners, should be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are sure that the government's decision will contain fair criteria, those who need help most to get the most. In this case, it is those with the minimum pension. Finally, it will be a way of showing our social sensitivity. Some indications about it were given by the minister in his opening statement. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119411	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I can imagine that the original law accidentally passed this SDP so that today's debate would be and that the praises would be pruning about the billions that were secured to pay back the pensioners. But this is not about 10 billion, this is about 15 billion plus the interest that we are going to pay for these 6 billion years to come, which the Croatian state is in debt, which could not be filled with the sale of shares of INA and HT because debt pensioners were made twice in decisions. First it was one, then a second decision was made in excess of 2 billion kuna for those not covered by it. Why? Because simply when you're doing parliamentary materials then if you're passing one of these laws then you have to tell the whole history of that law how there's been 100 and so many million kunas for reasons if you don't do it in such a way, then that document is a falsification, but apparently today the great praises have been done about the government's denying something, but when the government made a decision for something else, then we've been listening to worse than the pre-election stunts on the other side of the assembly and we and our colleagues from HSU who were then in another coalition. So, I am not at all controversial and political rights and it is every government's decision to make a decision in this situation that it feels is necessary to make. And I won't play with the story of a political-non-political, pre-election-not-election-because it's the right of the government to make that decision. The rest of the money, how she's gonna reroute them, is her political right to manage the funds, and that's why I didn't report for the debate at all to talk about it. So, first of all, I called to say that the record includes what the amount of future generations' debt is because we're going to be paying 15, 20 more years of interest to our colleagues and colleagues. So that amount will go down to some 17-18 billion. The second thing is that if there was a colleague Davorko Vidovic, he would certainly be raising his line now and he would start talking about that 6%+100 kuna programme that was being paid in compensation... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 6% colleague 6, 6 plus 100 kuna which is now at an annual level over a billion kunas when you take the cost and when you take the last year then the debt to the pensioners has already risen to nearly 35-40 billion kuna in some amount of their total. [[Intruder: 7.]] And all governments have played that they will come back in such a way and this fund will cease to exist in this decision, these Christmases will be paid off, but I think because of the truth, because of the Croatian public should be told about this amount. As we should perhaps talk about some other amounts that have been paid in this House for a variety of political reasons, and then during all the political options to universal horror, regardless of what colleague was the finance minister, then we wouldn't wonder why today is our 100th and more debt, actually public debt why we have 90% of GDP or nearly 300 billion kuna. So what was supposed to be passed in law, I think it could be done, could be determined by some social criteria to know clearly how and who would get how much money. This is how we make Bianca's decision to the government that's on its way to deploy 150 million whatever she wants. I am surprised that the Croatian party of pensioners accepted this, but apparently in a desire to show its voters how to take care of them they accepted that part. In my opinion, if we're already distributing these 150 or how many millions of kunas are already going to be, then we've had to use that to those who receive the least of their pensions to get a more significant amount. Because I'm saying, it doesn't matter if someone has 1300, 1400, or someone has 3,500 or 4,000 kuna. Well, if we're talking about social sensitivity, then we should have said so. But I repeat, when I talk about paying back the pensioners' debts, then that amount is substantial. And if you were to talk about it all the colleagues who were practically from '99. I'm not going to go too far on the pension system here, but I don't want anyone chasing me by my word and I think we've exceeded 35 billion kuna. And what's most important is that 6% plus a hundred kunas we'll be paying more hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo. And that's the amount at the moment when the agreement was reached to build it into the base, then that amount started to grow. And that's why I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I think you should have said all of this today, not for someone to glorify themselves, but for all of us who are in politics to become aware when some decision is made that everything has to have a limit. Why? Because ultimately, we all pay for it and because it might ultimately prevent us from implementing certain reforms and making our children feel better tomorrow. Because no one in Croatia speaks of this return to the debt of pensioners anymore. Today, we all made a decision for the Swiss, because we are aware of the fact that some of our fellow citizens need help. But running away from social sensitivity and running away from having to show through the state budget where the state must be social and how much it costs Croatian citizens we make decisions that ultimately cost us tremendously. We can talk here about both Croatian shipbuilding and Croatian railways and agricultural subsidies. Let's look at the situation today, and they must have swallowed 25% of the public debt somewhere. And not to be too long, I felt the need to say this because unfortunately this doesn't say it here. Because when it comes to INA selling those INA shares that were the most transparent no matter what anyone said. HDZ has not sold any shares of INA here, and I want to say it has not sold to MOL, but has allowed Croatian citizens, institutional investors, in Zagreb and London Stock Exchange, the same way as it has allowed INA employees, with certain discounts and Croatian defenders to get shares. From those funds that got in the way of the team, there was the first payment of debt to the pensioners. After that, shares of Croatian Telecom were sold, the next payment was made. When the second decision was made, there was no more money than privatisation, but loans were raised. I say for which 15, 20 or 30 more years we will pay interest, because Croatia, unfortunately with such economic growth and I would not want this to be political about economic growth, will not be able to repay so much of that loan. Thank you very much. He's doing history and he's doing the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119413	Thank you. We have one replica, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In 2006 and 2008, your government paid a Christmas card for Croatian pensioners, so I think this government can pay for at least one Christmas card. It's legal, it's going to be a legal decision of the government and we're going to make it very easy to agree to respect this principle that we talked about today, a smaller pension, a bigger Christmas card, a bigger supplement, a smaller pension, nothing or anything. And as far as you're talking about loans and interest, how much more that year will pay off, I must remind you that this generation of pensioners of new ones has been retired since 1.1.99. A very damaged generation if you're looking at the one until '98. is damaged monthly, every pensioner for 446 kuna. That's at an annual level of three and a half billion. I think this generation pays for and misses and your government, and I need to remind you of one mistake regarding the current value of retirement. In 2004, this mentioned 100 kuna supplement and 6% became part of the pension. This has not been corrected during the current pension value of pensioners today, and this supplement has been paid to 31.12. and has not been made up of pensions. The pension was to be adjusted for that amount and the current value of the pension relating to new pensioners. And today these pensioners pay their taxes, I say three and a half billion a year. It's facts like you often say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119415	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119416	I said that the government's political right to make a decision and I just don't want to discuss it, that's okay. However, you know well that when in any way you touch pensions that it means huge amounts in the long term. You know well that walking about when someone retired and if someone had gone a month earlier had a few hundred kunas more pension than his colleague with whom he spent the entire working life in the same office or the same machine because he had been gone for a month. And you know why? You know when that law was changed? The peace reform was carried out in Croatia in '99. years and then due to debt returns or damages were made various variations on the subject of saying so, not pension reform, and that's why it happened. Unfortunately, therefore, all pensioners in Croatia today can complain in one way or another. Why? Because pensions were practically made during three periods that had nothing to do with each other. One is the former state, one is Croatia at a time of war when wages were unrealistic as they are, one is practically when some economic growth in the Republic of Croatia began. So we can discuss it as much as we want. But some facts that are as they are simply cannot be changed. They did, that Christmases were paid to pensioners but at times when the budget grew by 11, 12% not because of tax increases, but because of economic growth and because of some charges that had not been made in the previous years. But today we are talking about times when Croatia has an economic downturn and Croatia has the lowest employment and pensioner relationship. Because if you subtract from the number of employees those 250 grand who receive salaries from the state budget, then that relationship is, unfortunately, 0.85:1. And that's a fact, because they're getting practically out of the same cash register paid from where pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119417	Thank you. Finally, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am glad that the law will receive unanimous support from all clubs, and this is all part of the election, electoral rhetoric by colleagues from HDZ. What to say is that this government has not frozen pensions that it has defrosted. We coordinated as much as growth and everything else. So, something that's a fact. The pension system needs to continue, the pension system is something that is the basis of social security, on the other hand, the fight against poverty and further steps need to be made in this area. The peace reform has been launched, it is already giving its results. And I'm saying, this is something we should have done to our pensioners and certainly the government will make a decision very soon after the law comes into force and it will be socially sensitive. So, at those levels that I already said in the opening statement. Thank you very much for the debate, I hope tomorrow will be all hands in the air when there's a vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119419	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119420	It's true again, because this will remain recorded. So pensions, an increase in pensions based on the Swiss formula was abolished in 2009 when the economic and financial crisis rocked the whole world and when the economic downturn was 6 and something else not only in Croatia but practically across Europe and throughout the world and budgetary opportunities simply did not allow it. And what you've been raising someone's pension for 2.5 kuna, 50 limes can hang a cat's tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119421	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119422	I wasn't hoping for a replica because the real facts are facts, HDZ has frozen pensions, HDZ in its programme, which was written in Germany very clearly says that pensions will drop 10%. We didn't freeze our pensions. We matched them as much as we could. Therefore,... That's what your consultant said, so you can't wash yourself. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's obvious by yours that you're hiding it, that's why you're hiding the program so the people of the Republic of Croatia don't see it. We said that saving and stabilising will not work at the expense of the poorest. In 2009, you did it by freezing pensions. And that's something that's written down and let's keep it here and there. So, we didn't freeze our pensions, we matched them as much as we could. Not as much as we could but as many parameters that allowed us to adopt in the new Pension Insurance Act a more favourable formula that goes towards harmonising with a more favourable parameter all with the goal of maintaining pensions above poverty levels. Looking at what we've done is very clear and it appears that someone who has 65 years and 40 years of employment is his pension at this point is 70% of the average salary. If we had fewer pensioners so that at the time of HDZ when it was privatization and when people were leaving for early retirement today they wouldn't have such problems, that other people would not have a problem that we now have if we had a relatively large number of pensioners and that that's why the costs of the pension system are extremely high. So much for the record, for the record. The SDP does not consider that stabilising the budget should work on pensioners. We weren't cutting pensions, we were paying off on time, and what we're doing now is on the same trail that we've been working on for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119423	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We continue, thank you, Minister, and your assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119424	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 902. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. What's the score? I find that Law number 902 was passed unanimously with 102 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119425	Seven. Final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 897; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Allen Leveric is with us, at the inauguration. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Currently, as you know, there is a law on the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment that took effect on 10 October 2012. In the sense of law enforcement, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is responsible for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs while the Ministry of Economy is responsible for large entrepreneurs. The relevant law has delivered good results, with its application being initiated by the ministry's competent authorities, received a total of 400 applications for the use of incentive measures. The total estimated value of the projects reported is nearly 20 billion kuna, and the results of these projects are estimated to be 13,000 new jobs. During the implementation of the current law, direct support of 55 million in the form of incentives for new jobs and capital cost incentives for investment projects has been paid up to this day. However, in view of the need to bring national legislation into line with the new guidelines for the regional state support of the European Commission for the period until 2020 and for the implementation of the Industrial Strategy 2014 to 2020 and the desire for new investments to be fully in line with the adopted Industrial Strategy, it is proposed to adopt a new Investment Encouragement Act. To all investors investing in manufacturing and processing, development-innovation activities and business support activities, the activities of high value-added services of the Republic of Croatia offer a number of incentive measures. The new law supports all the encouraging measures of the applicable law and prescribes another 4 new measures that will further increase Croatia's competitiveness and attractiveness for investment, especially in relation to countries in the environment. The new aid measures are related to the alignment with the Industrial Strategy, and these are support for investment in a minimum equivalent of EUR 13 million, subject to the opening of at least 10 new high level of expertise related to the investment project itself and relate exclusively to new companies. The proposed new law increases Croatia's competitiveness and attractiveness for investment and gives the competent ministries of the economy and entrepreneurship and crafts the possibility to enter into agreements between entrepreneurs and the competent ministry which is an important act in attracting new investments. In short, all the issues that are proposed to settle the new investment issue are, the basic concepts are defined in Article 6 of the Law, the Commission's definition of the incentive for eligible costs of improvement, the division of general and special improvement, the provision allowing the use of tax incentives without additional employment, the amendment of the definition of logistics distribution centres, or the regulation is limited only to investment projects in manufacturing activities, the definition of tourism services for observed shortcomings and dual interpretations in the application of the law, and is harmonised with the industrial strategy of the Republic of 2014-2020. By way of derogation from the proposed Investment Encouragement Act, the Investment Encouragement Act and the improvement of the investment environment shall be put outside the scope of the Investment Environment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119427	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here is so that there will be no confusion if someone does not follow the law, someone who has not read the law that does not think that now this parliamentary majority and this government is at the end of the term, so at the last session, it goes with a new law, to the Investment Encouragement Act, that we do not remember at the end of the term to encourage investment. So this is a new law in its form but basically it is a continuation or extension or just an involving of that law that was passed in 2012 by the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the improvement of the Investment Environment. So immediately at the beginning of its term, this government has just passed such a law, and now it is simply going with a new law to bring it into line with some EU provisions and to comply with the industrial strategy that we have adopted before I have been wronged for a year. So, we didn't just think of it now, but we remembered right at the beginning of the mandate, and now we're just harmonizing things with what happened in the meantime. And most of the provisions, or rather all those incentives that were in the current law, remain still, four only new measures or four major changes are being introduced, and they are related to an industrial strategy that the deputy minister spoke of, and I am not going to make them specific. So nothing can happen to the entrepreneurs of this law to them bad, on the contrary, but only better. All those who have aspirated and think that they can or want to compete for funds under the old law can continue to do so, especially those who have begun under the old law can end them according to that, and if they are in favor or if they are more fit by a new law, so according to the one we are discussing today. So, only they change for the better and nothing on the worse. So we see that by now in one and another ministry, so the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts so far has submitted an impressive number of requests, a total of nearly 400 requests, somewhere around it, these demands are about 20 billion kuna somewhere, but what matters most about these demands would be opened somewhere around 12, 12,5 thousand new jobs. We heard only that some of this has been resolved so far, that so far 55 million has been paid, and what is planned in this and next year, so in the budget of this year 2015 we have planned to encourage investment in the Ministry of Economy 15 million, in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship 20, so 35 million, and in the projection of the budget for 2016 and 2017 we have planned 85 million, 50 in the economy and 35 in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. 60 million at the Ministry of Economy and 41 So all together in these three years somewhere around 220 million meant to encourage entrepreneurship. Surely these measures are stimulating, not those who have received incentives have certainly contributed with their work that we have finally good economic indicators, that we have growth in exports, that we have growth in industrial production for the second year, what we haven't had in the last six years, that we have a growth in exports that lasts already from month to month constantly for the second year. Therefore, they are, and this is the result, so if I can say these incentives or, overall, by looking at the overall economic policies that this government has implemented. Who can compete for this, or to whom these funds are intended? First of all, for manufacturing and processing industry, activities, for the development of innovation and services, but only for high value added services. Therefore, it wants to help the production, development and service of high additional value. First of all, our goal is to achieve as much employment as possible because none of these measures mentioned in the law can be realised, or cannot be encouraged by any measure unless it is sought or produced by new employment. On the other hand, in addition to employment, there is a desire to provide new equipment, modern technology and, in a technological sense, to make our companies the same or more competitive or competitive than the environment so that they can be equally worn on the common European market and cannot be worn on the European common market if you have bad equipment, outdated technology, then you certainly cannot be competitive. So this law and these measures will certainly make our production and processing industry, but in general our economy more competitive and more ready for battle on the single European market. And of course, this law also provides for the third goal that we have drawn out, which is a more even development within the Republic of Croatia, because we have stimulated a series of measures to increase amounts, greater incentives to those areas that are more underdeveloped or that have a higher unemployment rate. What are the measures or types of support that are most...? First of all, through a reduction in profit tax that goes up to 50% in 5 or 10 years depending on the number of employees, depending on the number of investments, so first of all through a reduction in profit tax through tax incentives. Secondly, through incentives for new jobs, a certain amount per employee's head, according to a new job of between 3 and 9 000, depending on the number of employees. And, of course, what is important is to say about one and the other measures unless what is provided for in the programme is fulfilled unless all employees are provided for in the necessary employment or are detained, and it has been planned to lose the right to further assistance and, of course, the funds must be recovered. So there are no such things as there have been many of our incentives and subsidies in many measures so far, take the incentive, go into the program and no one asks what is going on with the program if it has production, whether it has employment, but it is important that the money is taken away. So that's not in this case. And of course there is a third type of support that is through grants that primarily relate to co-financing or participation in carrying out capital investment costs and there range from 10% to 20% depending on what investment costs are, therefore, on investments in long-term assets. All of this is about a law that will certainly contribute to a more competitive Croatian economy, which will certainly be much more competitive with this law. On the other hand, it will ensure that all these requirements are implemented by around 12,000 jobs and will ultimately result in what has already begun, hence even greater growth in industrial production and even greater export growth and ultimately even higher GDP growth, and then this will ultimately mean a higher standard and personal but even social standard for all of us. Thank you and we support this law, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119429	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119430	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. The adoption of this law will cease to apply a previous law which has tangled the same area, which is the Law on the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment. In fact, when it is looked at in the analysis itself, it has received a certain result, so that it is continued to say that the adoption of a completely new law in line with EU legislation is also in line with a series of domestic laws that we have passed, I think it represents one progress. What about the very text of the law, which is very well done mathematically, technically although, in my own court, the very structure of the law may not be best understood to everyone, so I also suggested that on the Committee on Economy, there would be a different structured guide for potential users to encourage or support. The HNS Club will support the bill by obtaining quality results, certain results, and these results are visible in 2014 as well as growth in industrial production, GDP growth. And also with the 2016 budget projection, 2017, where significant amounts are allocated from the budget in part of the support. But what I may have thought should have been more highlighted or perhaps more text, more writing that is chapter 3 Encouraging the improvement of the investment-entrepreneurship environment or as we previously called a favourable-business environment. And it says well, I agree with all of this, but it may have been omitted, and I would now, of course, it is my opinion, or the opinion of the HNS Club, that a number of laws that may have had to be numbered which in some way influenced a favourable business environment from a set of tax laws, a particular new Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, the Law on the Promotion of Business Infrastructure, which is still under discussion, the Law on Free Zones, the Strategy for the Development of Entrepreneurship, the Industrial Strategy, a series of judicial laws. Namely, which is a favourable business environment other than what it says, it is the functioning of the rule of law in all segments. Certainly a favourable business environment is not what we have witnessed in recent years of breaking bilingual records, it is certainly not a favourable business environment, not to say gas bottles, not to say tents unwarrantedly, not to say triggering coups, destabilising, functioning not only of government but of state institutions. I hope that, I also hope that the consciousness of our citizens is changing on entrepreneurs and on entrepreneurship and certain structures of society that have one in my opinion a distorted approach, a distorted view of the entrepreneur himself. I just don't want to label it or tell anyone who it is. However, also try to remember not so long ago and certain activities in matters and public debates when we talked about the Labour Law, amendments to the labour law a negative attitude towards the entrepreneurs themselves. But I hope that these times are slowly behind us and that this part of the law as regards promoting promotion, investment, entrepreneurial environments may be nomotechnical or the very expression itself needed a simpler, more understandable language to be described. But I'm saying there's certainly a series of laws that we've passed in this term and some laws from previous periods, and I'm sure they should have been mentioned in that part. I hope that, as were the period 2013 and 2014, support has been used, that this part of the support law will also be used on an economically sustainable basis and, of course, I believe that this will ultimately reflect on the growth of the GDP product, also the growth of industrial production and one in the high-grade processing industry itself. As I said, the Croatian People's Party Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119431	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119432	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Batinic, I couldn't help overplaying you, you obviously didn't look at the budget rebalance. So at the position of the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Economy, your budget has dropped by almost 440 million. Just so much, nothing else. About the use.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119433	We don't have an answer? We don't. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119434	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister without an associate. I'm going to say first of all, there's not much of us, but I'm going to say that this is a good law, so now you don't, anything I'm going to say further so you don't have to think about what, how, where, as far as this law is concerned. And I won't, because my colleague Jelusic elaborated and analyzed it, even more than the deputy minister, and then I don't need it now at 8.10. However, I must say one key thing about the law itself, and I will not bring out any gossip here because Zagreb is a relatively small town and gossip is a lot but I will ask Mr. Deputy Minister that if he will still be kind at the end of the day to explain to all of us why it took this government a year to give such a good law, after we have received it, it seems to me, so the Commission regulation has been since 17 June 2014. So something so smart and good since 17 June 2014 maybe this government could have reacted before if it was as important and good and it is, as I said. But I'll answer some other things. So first, for starters I'll repeat what you've heard here already on our side, these right multiple times,... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought I was saying something wrong, but these are all facts. So I'm going to say something that we've already spoken several times, which is that unfortunately, investments in no country can be solved by any law. So however good this law is, he's not going to solve much by himself. He makes investment a little faster, but in his own mind, it's going to happen here, which is why he won't. So, it's like one of my speakers said, it's being solved by an investment environment. And the investment environment is the stability and predictability of the law, a tax framework that we know has been changed 40 times only in the past 4 years and the competitiveness of the economy. A colleague Jelusic also mentioned that this law, therefore, will generate 12,000 jobs from 20 billion kunas waiting for this law, so investments will generate 12,000 jobs. Well, then, colleague Jelusic, I've calculated so roughly without a calculator that it means that your government has destroyed 120 billion kuna in the last four years. Calculate the number of jobs and how much these jobs are worth. So I'm like this "from the eye" if you said that 20 billion kunas are going to generate 12,000 jobs, then the rough bill says that you've just destroyed 120 billion kunas, and then this 20 billion is just a sixth of what you've destroyed in four years. That's one thing. And I also have to mention another thing to colleagues Batinić, not to defend even the slightest gas bottles, but somehow all of this happened before the tourist season you like to boast about, it's supposed to be the best in Croatian history tourist season, so somehow it didn't seem to have any effect on the investment environment and tourist season. And in the end, just one more sentence, so I'm going to repeat that I don't know which times, which is part of an investment environment that none of you want to say anything about. So under the "doing business" of the World Bank and this is very important for how some investors value Croatia's investment environment is 65th place, after the World Bank methodology has changed, far the weakest of all EU countries. And as the genius laws have been passed over the past four years, there's been some data that's best spoken of. So the issue of construction permits Croatia is in 178th place. Which is a lot of progress, though, because we were at 185 a year ago. In front of us are Zimbabwe, Sudan and Bangladesh and similar countries. So much so that something dramatic changed that. The judicial system works brilliantly, so the registration of Croatia's ownership is 92nd. Exterior store 86th place, though, it's the worst 10 parameters. But I think that in these four years just before entering the European Union and 2.5 years after we entered the European Union, I think it could have been a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119435	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119436	I've been thinking about whether or not I should replicate this late, but I just have some things to do. I'm glad my fellow Milosevic you say this is a good law because it's a really good law and it will certainly help. And I thought we'd stay at that level to talk like I didn't attack before that, but I was just saying... that we'd stay at this level to say we're going what's good to support all of us so that today-to-morrow would be better, and I think that's the kind of businessmen they expect, and you and I are businessmen, and that's how we should talk. But you said then... so you did if the expected demands these of... billions to result in 12,000 jobs as much as this government has ruined. Now, look, somebody else can talk about it... Of course you were joking, but someone else can and can say it, but not you from HDZ during whose reign has started reducing employment primarily in the economy, and unfortunately we all complain here because we have lost... dozens and dozens of jobs unfortunately all in the economy, not in the public sector fortunately, or unfortunately no one has lost a job, and if there is no one in the economy will be in the public sector of pay money because the only economy is what it creates. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's not the result of this government's poor work, but it's the result if we're going to talk about governments, the government that was, but above all, the recession that unfortunately held us too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119437	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119438	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I hope we're already the European Union in 2015, so it's allowed when you say something that's wrong, so I took it for granted, while I said it was a good law, wondering legitimately why you waited a year with something so smart and good, and I'm not going to be here, but I know what was waiting for. It's another confirmation of the co-ordination of this current government, but it doesn't take us for the right to criticise and express what the facts are, and I'm trying to present facts, so I'm going to answer the facts now. And the fact is this, in 2007, after 1929, for your information, was the biggest crisis of economic Western civilizations. She arrived somewhere in Croatia at the end of 2008. As counterpart Shuker said, we had a fall of 6%, some 10, 12 and 13% in the European Union and were members of the European Union in 2009. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2011, as did most European Union and Croatian countries, they came somewhere near zero. We had two quarters of economic growth. I am not saying it at all because I was a member of that government at the time in 2011 but only because of the naked fact that because of the wrong moves, and this shows you every EUROSTAT and every..., every, every, every possible graph, that after 2011, most of the countries in particular continued to recover economic growth, and our country unfortunately plunged back. Now whether it has something to do with this government or, as nothing to do with this government, I leave it to you to judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119439	I wish we were looking forward to that zero, and now we're looking forward to something more than zero, and all of our governments are... And all our governments are Croatian governments, all our successes are our failures, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119440	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, I am glad that you will support my colleague Milosevic because he is in charge of the economy as Deputy Prime Minister when you were aware that you are handling the subject matter and matter, but I cannot agree that the gas bottles did not spoil the mood and did not draw attention to this act. I'm just saying that such a phenomenon of such events is not good, and I believe that you'll definitely agree that it does a favourable or poor business environment, as well as a number of things. Second, the trio's power, the judgmental power. Unfortunately, the fact, and we realize that this is the place where we can, we have to actually do a lot more, and with a set of very good ones according to all of us laws that have been passed judicially in this year things are going better. However, you know very well that politics must not and cannot be changed into a judgmental power. As far as licenses can be agreed, building permits are still unfortunately a big problem somewhere, but they're not anywhere. So it's a space depending on the county, on the units of local self-government, in which area. I'm not going to brag about that because when he says permission for one day, yes, theoretically, yes, with all the necessary documentation. I think it's another area where, unfortunately, through the proposed laws, we should try to speed up the procedures, solve the problem, but the big third pillar of the government is the judiciary. Unfortunately, I think we have too little influence on me personally, and I think it should be possible to step up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119441	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119442	Thanks again, last time tonight, I hope. So I mentioned gas bottles just because you put them in the context of an investment environment. They really didn't belong there, so far away to defend them. But I have to tell you one thing, things aren't going well at all, and I'm going to try to explain to you now that it's kind of not easy... today in the Croatian public and through the media. And why things don't go well in Croatia, because in the first 6 months, the government likes to boast that we have growth, in the first 6 months of this year Croatia grew by 0.8%. During that time, the Czech Republic grew exactly 4.2%, Romania with which we did not like to compare and we are wrong and we do not have the right to compare with neither Romania nor Bulgaria nor much worse than Romania and Bulgaria, increased by 3.8% in the first 6 months of this year. In the first 6 months of this year, the burden of many problems and the unreformed economy has a lot of experience in Slovenia 2.7%. I'm saying this because I guess it has to be clear to everyone, so it's not that we're catching up with someone but we're getting further away from all the countries that we've never even wanted to compare to, but we're comparing arrogantly with Germany and Austria. How about I tell you how Austria and Germany are? These are countries that today at 40,000 euros per capita plus grow 1% at the rate of Croatia. Well, now I think it's the simplest elementary school mathematics to understand how much Croatia lags behind absolutely everyone and speeds it up. So, the Germans and the Austrians can never make it. 1% of 100 is a little less than 1% of 400. And the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Poles, the Hungarians now that I'm not counting all the rates of economic growth at the rate of three, four, some of them I didn't count on on purpose and higher rates than that. So how's Croatia doing better? Are we gonna compare tomorrow with Syria? I accidentally took that example. So, unfortunately, it's not going to get any better. And until we look ourselves in the mirror and stop lying here in this House so what do people think of all of us? So how long are we gonna lie? So do we all really think or do some of us think that people can't count and don't know how to look at statistics on the Internet? Excuse me. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119443	Final presentation by Deputy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119444	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a little bit. I thank you for making the law very quality and especially because it has 48 articles. It's simple, there's regulated stuff in it. Yeah, it may have been working a little longer, but the result is this high-quality law, and we've long stopped believing in gossip, so I think we're too serious to go that way. Only for the emphasis on the budget rebalancing of 8 million kunas are increased funds precisely for incentives in the economy. So if you look at the items, you'll see that 8 million kunas increased and those funds will be spent by the end of the year just for what we're doing here to support investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119445	That's what we're done with all the exposure. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on the law tomorrow. Final proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 887. The debate on the text of the law is over, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law. I ask Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric to plead on the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119447	The Committee's amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119448	It becomes an integral part of the law. Please approach the vote. The result? I find that Law 897 was passed by 91 votes for and 2 abstentions. Now, as agreed, we're going to unite the following two points 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Ninety-six and nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Energy Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Ninety-seven. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received their reports, so now I'm asking Deputy Minister Allen Leveric to give an opening statement to both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. It's about the laws of the third energy package. As regards the Energy Act itself, it means in view of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the existence of appropriate protection measures to protect threatened customers and thus clearly determines the concept of energy poverty and, inter alia, the prohibition of the supply of networked electricity, heat or gas to such customers in critical times, without jeopardising market relations. Taking into account this, the law lays down that the amount of the solidarity fee for the threatened customers, the means of collecting funds for the solidarity of the account of the threatened customers, the criteria, the protection measures for endangered customers, and the obligations of system operators and suppliers will be determined by the Regulation on criteria for obtaining the status of threatened customers of energy from networked systems. This law also provides for the abolition of the provisions of the current Energy Act on the date of entry into force of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration in order to avoid any other regulation in the legislation in question. As far as the Electricity Market Act is concerned, apart from the very alignment with the electricity market, it is also necessary here, one of the more important items is that the electricity market itself is formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119451	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, no, no, no, no, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the ORAH, colleague Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119452	Thank you, esteemed vice president, honorary representative of the government, few colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the ORAH Club on the Final Proposals of the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Act, I would like to say that the ORAH Club will not support the proposal for a law on the electricity market, as it is contrary to public interest and without shame favours certain companies. And we won't support the draft energy law, because that bill is the most ordinary world of guides. It does not solve anything, it does not define exactly who these are socially endangered customers, according to which criteria determine energy poverty, and I am afraid that this will not be transparently regulated by the Regulation on criteria for obtaining the status of endangered energy customers from networked systems. It is a shame that the Social Democratic Government only solves this issue at the very end of the term of office, and therefore we can rightly conclude that it only does so for pre-election populist purposes to buy voter favor by showing itself as a socially sensitive government. However, if this government had been truly socially sensitive, it would have long been a long time ago to settle this issue, since it also obliges the directives of the so-called. The third European energy package we should have coordinated with a long time ago. The third European energy package consists of two directives and three regulations aimed at creating a single European energy market in the electricity and natural gas sector, enabling end-users to choose suppliers and effectively protect socially sensitive customers. In order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to effectively separate regulated networks from market activities, i.e. production and supply of energy and to enable the market formation of prices, and an effective level of regulatory supervision. Unfortunately, we have been sneezing on all the elements for the implementation of the third European energy package. We did not separate the transfer to a special company in the state's 100 % ownership without the possibility of privatisation and did not effectively separate regulated, or networked from market activities, and did not effectively protect socially threatened customers. Unfortunately, we do not have an impartial and strong regulator that would be completely separate from the influence of politics. I'm going to say something more about that after all when I'm going to talk about the final draft of the Electricity Market Act. There's a situation that's even worse. The RAH was involved in a public debate on this draft bill and no comments were made on behalf of the ORAH by Prof. Dr. Davor Škrelek O RaH's Europarliamentary and one of Croatia's biggest experts on network activities has not been accepted, although many of them were completely technical. This bill creates barriers to investment, does not allow transparent and equal access to the network to all users, introduces a monopoly into parts that are market activities, endangers the safety and stability of the power plant of the Republic of Croatia and violates the approved system of state aid for renewable energy sources. I will only warn of a whole series of poorly engaged definitions in Article 2 of this bill. The new definition of balancing energy is incorrect and it is completely unclear why the applicant intervenes in that part of the law because the definition is fully correct in the applicable law. Also, there are no renewable non-fossil energy sources, there are only renewable energy sources, and among those mentioned are those who use fossil fuels but are considered CO2 neutral. There is no purchase of electricity under regulated conditions, there is only one system auxiliary service and they are supplied by a transmission operator or a distribution system operator, depending on the system it manages. The process of transforming fuel or energy into electricity should be read in the process of transforming primary forms of energy into electricity. The system balance shall not be implemented to maintain the frequency of the system. We ask the proposer, and how does this highly efficient cogeneration save primary energy? If a definition of highly efficient cogeneration is introduced, then there must be a definition of cogeneration because the biomass thermoelectrics are impossible to achieve the degree of action of highly efficient cogeneration due to the type of fuel. We are also asking whether the applicant even knows the area of combined production of electricity and heat and available technology? Articles 14 and 15 of the Law are also controversial. Namely, the transmission system operator is not a contractor, so this is contrary to the right to achieve transparent access to the network. This article also violates competition rules as it gives hidden State support to specific energy entities. It is not clear where an operator must pay attention to energy efficiency and how it is responsible for protecting nature and the environment, perhaps in terms of protecting human health from non-ionising radiation. In Article 15, paragraph 35 of the proposal calls for the non-existent document "The Energy Development Strategy Implementation Programme" and leaves out the "National Energy Efficiency Action Plan" document and, in the preceding article, the system operator is also responsible for energy efficiency. The question arises why is Article 18 of the closed distribution system prohibited from joining the privileged energy producer? Isn't that contrary to the paradigm of distributed production and micronets? This proposal also provides for a completely unnecessary obligation to develop an optimal connection elaborate because, according to previous provisions, the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator are obliged to submit to the Agency a updated 10-year network development plan each year and to demonstrate the investments in detail over the next 1-year and 3-year period, they must analyse the losses in the network and propose measures to reduce them. As all such activities require network budgets from operators, only the deadlines for building energy plants are extended and investors are creating unnecessary costs. The ORAH Club also warns that the current Electricity Market Act or some other law does not lay down the criteria for the inclusion of wind power projects on the Contact List as well as the procedure for issuing the previous electricity agreement for wind power plants, so the question is how can the article of this law be abolished without a legal basis? Since natural or legal persons have concluded a contract with CROTE on the basis of a solution issued by HERA in December 2013 after the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy Sources by 2020 and has set a quota of 400 megawatts based on the requirements of the CAPS or the Croatian System Operator in order to ensure the safe and stable drive of the Republic of Croatia's electricity system based on the analysis that enables the connection of an additional 400 megawatt wind power plant and how does the Ministry of Economy intend to justify a change in the State aid programme that will be contrary to the National Action Plan and the State Support Programme approved by the European Commission? These days, information has surfaced in public that this bill has allowed the government to benefit certain companies and interesting lobbys close to the top of the government. In this context, CERP is particularly mentioned. It is indisputable that these amendments to the law to the Croatian transmission system operator HOPS de facto requires the conclusion of an annex to the network connection contract. This is a key criterion for wind power plants based on a previously signed contract with a Croatian energy market operator who... and pays money for renewable energy sources. Those who have contracted with that institution must now join the network. It was previously conditioned by the qualitative state of the transmission network, stability or the possibility of regulating the electricity system. The quota took care of the safety of the power system. In fact, this law commands the CAPS to enable the system to be included regardless of the system's safety category. This solution could lead to bankruptcy by Croatian transmission system operator because it will not be able to invest in the creation of qualitative assumptions for maintaining the system stable at the time when an additional 350 megawatts are merged into the system above 400 megawatt quota. Unfortunately, our regulator didn't answer on this point even though he had to react to it. Why not? Maybe in the coming months or years they'll be investigating the State's Attorney's Office. This irresponsible bargaining with foreign funds, banks and so on. It will lead investors to an imminent increase in electricity prices for final customers, especially households, and will lead them into the state of energy poverty with which this government is allegedly being tackled, as appropriate at the very end of the term of office, which best points to responsibility and action in the public interest of this government. Following everything previously said, the OraH Club cannot support these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119453	On behalf of SDP representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119454	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll be right there. First of all, the amendments to the Electricity Act. I'll just say in short lines what's most important in these changes and additions. What is most important is that by adopting these amendments and supplementing the law, there is additional liberalisation of the electricity market, further there is an increase in transparency in electricity markets, and all of this in the interests of citizens and end-users, which will lead to a decrease in electricity prices in the long term, and this is already felt by market liberalisation today. And in the long run, it will have an even greater effect, and therefore, a greater benefit for our citizens. The monitoring of the agency's electricity market is also increasing, which should have an effect on price regulation and additional consumer protection, further increasing the level of protection of end-users when it comes to objections. The obligation prescribed by this law is that the supplier is obliged to submit once a year a report on the status and resolution of the complaint by users to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which further strengthens the protection of customers and end-users. These amendments and additions to the law further regulate and simplify the relationship between suppliers and end-users or allow for easier and faster change of distributors by users and also simplify the issue of invoices, household connections and temporary exclusions. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that these amendments to the laws on imports of electricity markets, which is a very important thing, should have an impact on the level of electricity prices in the long term, of course, in that positive sense or should affect the reduction of costs. These amendments and amendments to the law also lay down measures in the event of emergency situations that will be further regulated through the Government of the Republic of Croatia which allow energy operators to carry out all necessary tasks in exceptional cases, such as temporary human care, re-connection of the installation of users, use of temporary power sources as well as other services, but most importantly in such situations and this is the way in which the costs of these activities will be borne. The need to regulate these needs occurred during a natural disaster that hit Gorski Kotar last year when there was an energy supply problem in the area, but also because of the events that followed after the dams were fired on the Sava River. Finally, in addition to harmonising with the European acquis and the European directives, these amendments and additions to the law are aimed at increasing the protection of final customers, liberalising further market surveillance, thereby reducing electricity prices in the long term or simply aimed at protecting end-users or citizens, and therefore the SDP club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. When it comes to changing and supplementing the Energy Act, that is one sentence. In essence, there is a change in one article that prescribes that the Government will set out its regulation the amount of solidarity compensation for vulnerable customers, in particular the collection of funds for the solidarity of the accounts of vulnerable customers, the criteria and measures for the protection of endangered customers, as well as the obligations of system and supplier operators. So all criteria and conditions will be regulated by the government's regulation. And this is also a alignment with European directives and acquis, so the SDP club will support both of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119455	And on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119456	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. The HNS Club will support both bill proposals for several reasons. I'll just for a short period of time specify a few. It is primarily because they are linked, secondly, that the proposed Energy Act further regulates the question of vulnerable customers and the legislative concept based on the provisions of the directive relating to the electricity and gas market, ensuring continuity of supply of electricity to final customers, security of energy supply in the Republic of Croatia, regulation of economic opportunities in the field of the social category of citizens in the field of energy and the settlement of energy billing in such final customers. It is determined that the regulation will further determine the amount of the solidarity fee for vulnerable customers, the way in which the funds are collected for the solidarity of the accounts of vulnerable customers, the criteria and measures to protect vulnerable customers, as well as the obligations of system operators and suppliers. As far as the Electricity Market Act is concerned, the specific reasons for which we will support it, I have already cited some in the work of the Energy Act because they are inevitably connected, so this is the continuity of the reliability of supply to final customers. This part of Article 38 in the law says "It is prescribed that the competent authority for social care will determine the level of social support to the threatened buyer, i.e. the type and scope of the rights that belong to the established status and the way in which the social minimum costs of electricity are met. From the Social Care Act and the provision of legal assumptions for the orderly start of the work of the Croatian Stock Exchange as well as other EU electricity exchanges in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which directly affects the current economic policy in the area of energy, which, let's be honest, has not been." That's very short. I think it's enough and that it's very significant for us to be fully justified, so we'll support this proposal even though one of my colleagues' remarks is Holly. Your party has the name ORAH Sustainable Development, however, my remark, your debate in no way can be linked to sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-17-0.u119457	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals of these two laws tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues, as agreed with the President of the Parliament this morning, will begin at 9:00 p.m. for clubs that wish to address themselves before the session itself. At 9.30 we will vote on the laws under discussion, and after the vote we will discuss the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget, then the Law on the implementation of the state budget and the Proposal for a decision on temporary financing. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9:00. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Energy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Ninety-six. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. The result? I find that the law of 906 was passed with 76 votes in favour, 23 abstentions and 4 against.
