ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103936	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103937	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103938	So distinguished MPs and MPs. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the final proposal for a law to be proposed. In the current Pension Insurance Act, the legal order of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted and Council Directive 97/81 on the Framework Agreement on part-time work is applicable. According to that directive, work with reduced working time to obtain certain social security rights was even with full-time work, so the Pension Insurance Act needed to deal with this issue more clearly, i.e. a explicit provision to define a way of equalising work with part-time with full-time work to obtain pension insurance rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Pension Insurance Act removes the possibility of different interpretations in implementation and ensures one access to pension insurance rights for unfulfilled workers such as those provided for in the applicable provisions allow insurance workers working full-time. The law on the life partnership of persons of the same sex who entered into force on 5 August 2014 the life union of persons of the same sex in the exercise of the right of pension insurance is equal to that of a married or extramarital community of men and women. This draft law will bring into line with the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, i.e. to enable the exercise of the right to a family pension to secure family members, in particular those who have concluded a life partnership with the competent authority, as well as family members of persons who have not concluded a partnership, and their life union can be leveled with an extramarital community. In addition, the right to extended insurance will also provide life insurance partners who have concluded a life partnership with a person of the same sex under the conditions prescribed for a spouse. The relevant Pension Insurance Act stipulates that monetary incomes that have not been paid to the death of the beneficiary can be inherited, and monetary incomes after the death of the beneficiary who does not have an heir belong to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the State budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on succession is prescribed that after the death of a person who does not have an heir his legacy belongs to the city or municipality and that the city or municipality in that case have the status of successor. Since the Law on Inheritance is the basis of the Law governing the issue of succession, it is necessary to remove the doubt more clearly in the application of that law and the Pension Insurance Act. This bill prescribes that current users of early retirement pension due to long-term insurance are translated into old age pensions for long-term insurance workers in order to ensure a uniform monitoring of the number of those insurance companies. An important provision of the Pension Insurance Act stipulates that the right to early retirement due to long-term insurance can be achieved by an insurance undertaking when it is 60 years old and 41 years old, and the pension is determined without a reduction. For insurance companies first earning that pension after the age of 60 and having 41 years of insurance training is prescribed so-called. Bonding in a way that pensions increase by 0.15% per month for each month after the completed years of life insurance prescribed for obtaining the right to that pension, and not more than 5 years, which can be up to 9%. This pension has been introduced because, in certain professions after long work and after 60 years of life, it is impossible to successfully carry out the tasks of its profession, and it has been estimated that the prescribed period of insurance or long-term insurance is sufficient for the insurance undertaking to invest in pension insurance in order to achieve that right even before the age limit prescribed for retirement 65 years. The basic pension shall be determined by insurance undertakings other than in pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity provided for in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings if, in the mandatory retirement insurance of generational solidarity, they acquire the right to an age or early retirement pension under a special regulation. Mirovina is defined as being secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. The provision of the right to invalidity pension of insurance workers, a member of a pension fund under the age of 55 and provided for less than 10 years in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings in the event of a complete loss of employment, as well as the exercise of the right to family pension, a family member, a deceased insurance undertaking less than 55 years of life and less than 10 years in the compulsory pension insurance of individual capitalised savings. Those insurance companies acquire the right to an age, early retirement, i.e. disability pension due to total loss of working ability as if they were secured only in compulsory retirement insurance of generation solidarity. A total capitalised amount of contributions from the personal account of the insurance undertaking at the time of retirement according to the central insurance register shall be transferred to the national budget. It is also arranged to determine the basic pension to a member of the insurance family who acquires a family pension if the funds from the insurance personal account have been inherited before the right to a family pension. The Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds Act, which was in force until 20 February 2014, required that pension insurance rights be regulated under more favourable conditions only from mandatory pension insurance of generation solidarity. A total capitalised funds from the personal account of those members of the Peace Fund shall be transferred to the central insurance register at the time of retirement and shall be determined as being secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. In the meantime, a new law has been passed in compulsory pension funds which entered into force on 20 February 2014 and has regulated the way in which insurance rights are exercised by special regulations governing the rights of persons in employment, police officers and authorised officials or are determined under that regulation in such a way that, if within 30 days of the date of entry into force of that law, it does not choose to stay in the second pillar of the asset from its personal account, it is transferred through the central register of insurance undertakings to the state budget, and the right to pension is acquired as if only in the mandatory retirement insurance of generation solidarity by making the pension subject to a special regulation governing the rights of those users. This law harmonises the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act with the provisions of the Mandatory Pension Funds Act in the section relating to the transfer of funds from the personal account of a member of a mandatory pension fund on the occasion of the exercise of the right to pension. The Mandatory Pension Funds Act only provides for the exercise of the right of a pension fund member from compulsory pension insurance of individual capitalised savings under the conditions of age to obtain an age pension under the Pension Insurance Act, and for the event of a complete loss of employment with the right to a disability pension under the Pension Insurance Act and the achievement of the right to a family pension if a member of the Fund dies before the right to retire under the Pension Insurance Act is established and where the right to a disability pension and family pension is recognised under more favourable conditions than the conditions laid down in the Pension Insurance Act. By harmonising the Pension Insurance Act with the Mandatory Pension Funds Act, insurance companies whose pension is determined under more favourable conditions, which are secured in the second pension column, will be allowed to determine the disability pension due to the general inability to work, i.e. because of the total loss of working capacity under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, by determining their pension as being secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity. The members of the family of those insurance companies whose funds from the personal account have not been inherited will be allowed to determine family pensions as if the insurance company had only been secured in the first pension column. The disabled person’s disability pension due to professional inability to work and the disabled person’s disability pension due to partial loss of working ability if he achieves a disability pension due to total loss of ability, age or early retirement, a new pension shall be determined on the basis of the pension internship and the value points achieved up to the date of obtaining the right to a disability pension due to a complete loss of working ability. The right to an age or early retirement pension as it is prescribed for users of old and early retirement pensions that have been compulsoryly secured in pension insurance after the right to pension is granted only if they have achieved at least one year of retirement. In order to obtain the right to a new pension, all beneficiaries should be equated and this proposal shall allow the right to complete loss of employment without the conditions so far of attaining the pension, i.e. the status of the insurance of disabled pensioners due to partial loss of employment. The deadlines for the submission of applications for the keeping of the home records shall also be laid down. It is prescribed that the bonds supply data, i.e. business statements, business termination or changes in the business of the contributors of the contribution within 24 hours of the start or termination of the business of the resulting change in the business of the obligor of the contribution. This proposal proposes further precision of the provisions on the provision of data for the keeping of parent records in such a way as to allow the obligor or legal person to provide the Institute with information on the initiation, termination or changes in the business of compulsory contributions within 24 hours of the start or termination of operations, i.e. from the beginning of a change in business. Autonomous contribution bonds shall be required to provide the Institute with information on the initiation and termination of insurance within 24 hours of the power of the solution in the register, e.g. Trade register, register of holders or members of the OPG. For persons in working relationship and with a working relationship equal to or similar insurance base, the obligor is obliged to submit an application to the Institute for the start of insurance at the earliest 8 days prior to the start of work and at the latest before the start of work with the employer, and the application for termination of insurance within 24 hours of the termination of work with the employers. However, if the insurance undertaking does not start working with the employer on the date of the start of the insurance agreement and is covered by the relevant contract, the obligor is obliged to register that fact to the institution on the same day. This will ensure better control of employers, protection of workers and their rights and more effective work of labour inspectors in curbing the grey economy and working on black. In the case of procedures for the exercise of the right to disability pension, it is prescribed that the procedure for the assessment of the working ability is initiated by the primary health care doctor when it is assessed that the insurance company has stabilised and that further treatment and medical rehabilitation will not lead to the re-establishment of the work capacity and that as a consequence of this creation, the reduction of working ability. The expert on the fact of the reduction of the working ability or the complete loss of the working ability of a member of the insurance family and the physical damage in the first and second degree shall be performed by authorised witches, or senior experts of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Retirement Insurance Act shall be prescribed for the purpose of determining the control review within 3 years whose purpose is to verify the health and working capacity of the insurance undertaking. They are subject to disability pension and compensation for physical damage. All findings and opinions of an authorised expert and senior expert on the basis of which the right is acquired shall be subject to the statutory audit carried out by the Ministry of Pensions. The exemption from those rules is insurance undertakings where the total loss of working ability is determined on the basis of medical documentation provided by the foreign pension insurance holder and the foreign institution has not also established the obligation to review. It may be determined that that user is not subject to a control review. It is also prescribed that the ministry responsible for the pension system in the control and control procedure may carry out a check-up under the official duty of rights established on the basis of a reduction in the working ability or partial or total loss of work capacity, physical damage or total loss of family member's ability during the application of those rights, and this brings an opinion and opinion. This law regulates the conduct of findings and opinions adopted in the control and control procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Pension Insurance Act is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe in detail the way and procedure of medical skills in pension insurance. Meanwhile, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted, which started from 1 January 2015, among other things, as well as skills for the needs of pension insurance in the first and second pillars. Jobs will be carried out by a single body of the basic Law on a single body of art as an organisational unit of the Institute of Arts. The unique body of art will also skill in the process of exercising rights in the field of social care, maternity and parental rights, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas where certain rights are exercised on the basis of skills, i.e. on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. The activities of the audit of the findings and opinions of the Institute of Art will be carried out further at the Ministry of Pensions, since the Institute has since 1 January 2015 not been responsible for the work of skills for the needs of pension insurance it is necessary to comply with the Pension Insurance Act with those laws. It is also proposed to prescribe a legal basis that will regulate the ways and procedures of carrying out the audit of findings and opinions on the work capacity adopted by the Institute of Arts. The procedure for training in pension insurance is in line with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Single Body of Skills in a way that the competence for the skills and physical damage is transferred to the Office of Art. The supervision and control procedure for rights established on the basis of reduced working capacity, partial and total loss of working ability and physical impairment shall be regulated. As from 1 January 2015, the pensions recognised or designated under a specific regulation shall be divided into a part of a specific regulation and a part determined under Article 80(3) of this Act. Starting from the current events and taking into account the issue discussed at the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee, the retirement period is set aside by 6 months, which is the fully recognised proposal contained in point 1 of the conclusion of that session of the Committee. This bill postpones 6 months of retirement for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and family members. In fact, it is an extremely sensitive category of pensioners who have made pensions under specific circumstances. The aforementioned separation has no financial effect on the level of defence pension i.e. Thus, defence pensions will not be reduced or the separation of pensions in July will be equal to the amount of pension paid in June 2015. Furthermore, the proposal to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act also addresses the issue of the evidence force and documents issued by the Institute for the guarantee of its jurisdiction, which are recorded on the microfilm, produced by digitisation or by the reproduction of microfilm copies or are digital copies of the document. The dynamics of equating the starting factor that reduces early retirement in the period from 2026 to 2029 were not consistent with the dynamics prescribed for the period 2014 to 2025 and are corrected by the proposed laws. The implementation of the Pension Insurance Act also identified the need for a clearer determination of certain issues related to the date of acquisition or loss of rights, the application of the rules and others and therefore needed to implement the relevant amendments and additions of the Pension Insurance Act. In view of all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 1. The Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's December 2014 section of the Croatian Parliament adopted a regulation amending that law. This bill proposes the termination of the existing regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103939	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a few replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, I'll just look back on one part of your argument of this law, it refers to that part of the same-sex marriage community. It seems to me that in this work, this law continues to play the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a referendum. I'm not sure, so I'm asking you for an additional explanation that the law will eventually prevent possible abuses because there could be a fictitious partnership for the use of rights, and this has also been warned when the Life Partnership Act or the Law on Same-Sex Marriages has been discussed. And it also seems to me that this approach actually encourages Croatian citizens socially unacceptable behaviour, that we may encourage the consumption of the law by same-sex marriage because it seems to me that this law did not give rise to some great fruit, that not many citizens were involved and that not many citizens consumed the law. Do we now, by this law in this work, want to encourage more citizens to use the right to make same - sex marriages? Here I'm really interested in this part of what is, how will it possibly prevent the possible manipulation of fictitious assembly of same-sex marriages because of the rights that the law allows?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103941	Thank you very much. Replication response, Your Honor's Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103942	Your Honor, this High House has passed the law you're talking about. So this Proposal for a Pension Insurance Act equals the terms and conditions and use and abuses aren't really the only exception in this part. If it's some kind of abuse, then it's possible for other communities. And if we only have one community, we have to comply with the law. So if we have one community of this guy, we have to align it with the law. Therefore, we have only actually transposed the provisions of the directive and incorporated it into our law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103943	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103944	Thank you very much. Sir, Your Honor, Mr. Stubelj, namely, I will proceed to this issue, it is quite clear that in the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law it is written that a circle of insurance companies that have the right to family property is spreading, precisely by the basis of the life partnership of persons of the same sex. So here, you've defined it quite clearly here and said it in the material itself. But I didn't want to ask that, I'm interested in something else, and I hope that I'll get an answer that, given that you've been professionally and very extensively explained everything except that you've gone over one topic very quickly that you said at the beginning. He says like this, so, "Working part-time to acquire certain social security rights..." so the first thing that's social security, I don't know, has health care, has pensions, I don't know if there's more, life insurance, but I don't know, it's no longer working out that term, "...it's even with full-time work, so in a mandatory retirement law, it's necessary to clear the issue." What it means is, so part-time or how it says part-time here, how and how you think about equating with those who work full-time and especially the word social security, I think that's not what it looks like to me here. Let me explain how, namely, there's a shortened working hours as it used to be called four hours where someone volunteered to work four hours, doesn't want to work eight hours, does four hours. And there's one that comes from e.g. Someone who has, a woman who has three children, so she's entitled to it, that's perfectly clear to me. But this part where someone works voluntarily for only four hours, what are his pension rights, and how is he equalized with those who work eight hours?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103945	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103946	Well, here's the esteemed representative, social security was transferred from the directive because we initially stressed that we transposed the provisions of that directive. As far as part-time is concerned, you know that we have in our own time introduced vouchers to work in agriculture, that we have introduced seasonal jobs, that we have allowed pensioners to work for up to half their working hours, so this is all covered by contributions to pension insurance. And as they enter, there will be a reckoning. Because every hour of work has its own size of contribution, it affects the total hour, the entire hours fund, and after one year of work everyone who has used incomplete working hours has the right to recalculate their pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103947	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103948	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, you mentioned the decision and conclusions of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament to postpone the application of certain articles of the Law on the separation of pensions obtained under special regulations. Namely, the conclusion of the War Veterans Committee with the presence of the President of the Croatian Parliament who participated in the debate was unanimously adopted and it reads in its first point this way: "It is proposed to postpone the application of the Pension Insurance Act to 6 months.". It means delaying the application of the Pension Insurance Act and this conclusion of the War Veterans Committee adopted unanimously is not respected. Why? Because only certain articles of the law have been postponed for 6 months and in these conclusions it is clearly defined that the whole law is being postponed. Croatian defenders who went after, as in disability pension as active military personnel, Croatian defenders who went after as active military personnel receive solutions under the new law that reduced the value point from 1 to 0.65 brought solutions that are in the same amount of pensions paid. However, this harmonisation, which will follow in the subsequent sequence, will certainly contribute to lower pensions than can be read from these incoming solutions. There is one more thing I would like to stress, given that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers has not been amended and amended, which, in the light of this Pension Insurance Act, I do not know why the Pension Insurance Act would absolutely apply above the Special Provisions Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103949	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103950	Your Honor, the decision of the Committee has extended the application of Article 80, because such a request has been but another provision has also been made, and one conclusion is that both representatives of the Committee and of the Government and of the Ministry will therefore form a committee that will work on all these issues. ... Yes, so that's how the whole question will be solved. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the solutions to come, namely the Pension Insurance Act is defined to separate all pensions under a special regulation, therefore, into a general and specific part. In that category, other than defenders of many other jobs defined by pensions in a special regulation, and of course, solutions have also come in that part, but no defender, therefore the user who uses the pension under the defence internship has received such a solution and is precisely awaiting this provision which is now defined in these amendments. As far as pension cuts are concerned, it is clear that pensions and defenders will remain in the same amount as they have so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103951	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of independent representatives Linić-Vuksic-Hodzic and respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103952	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. There is little to say about the very proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. The simple solutions proposed by this law go in favour of future pensioners and I therefore believe that the proposed solutions should be accepted. So we really agree that anyone who works part-time simply has the same rights as the one who works full-time, but of course adequate to the working time that has passed. Why? Well, because he pays a pension contribution, because he's the one who's out of his job and out of retirement. So it is very important that we are in line with the European Directive here. When we talk about a life partnership, we also feel that it is necessary to harmonise this law for the reasons that we have settled it by law in the Republic of Croatia, the life partnership of same-sex communities, and that is why I believe that we need to resolve and inherit, and that is why we need to address the issue of the family pension on this basis. So we agree with that part as well. We also believe that a more quality solution is that all those who are 60 years old are retired and have 41 years of training, considered pensioners with a full retirement period, means they have done 65 years and have exactly the same pensions as those who went into full retirement. I think it is necessary to coordinate the simple relationship between the Pension Insurance Act, pension funds, and every time we estimate that it is more acceptable for the pensioner, given that because of disability or early retirement, he was forced to simply retire earlier and for this reason it will be far more favourable for him to give and receive from generation solidarity than the combination of generational and other pension pillars. So all the solutions, however, we expect some more solutions in further coordination because it really takes citizens who can't stand full retirement experience to have generation solidarity because it's certainly more favourable than the combination with the pension column and, of course, the obligation to recover it from the funds, given that certain funds are still paid there. We see that a lot of solutions are related to the skills of incompetence, disability, so it's very good that we've regulated it. I think it's the actions that make it easier now to complete the procedure and that in some ways will put less burden on our citizens. But what can we conclude from this law? From this law, we can conclude that pension expenditures will increase, not only because of increased users when we speak to same-sex communities but also because we protect citizens entering retirement and give them more favourable conditions than before. And then we return to the fundamental issue that the coalition government did not touch in the fourth year of its term. She didn't touch it. The biggest deficits in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the budget are pensions. The pension system deficits are more than 17 billion kunas per year. So, with all this new expenditure to follow us, not perhaps in the next but next years, we're going to increase our deficit. If we still have the accident and there's a little bit of stronger inflation and some economic growth, and then we start coordinating pensions, then we can expect 18 and 19 billion deficits in the pension system. We're wondering if it's possible that the entire mandate we're talking about is the deficit, the way to contain the deficit, and the biggest cause we haven't touched. Well, it's obvious that it can only be an increase in the insurance rate, nothing more than the insurance rate. But any increase in the insurance rate will endanger the economy, the competitiveness of the economy. So the health contribution should be reduced, and the health contribution should be financed from the property tax. And basically with the work to move the burden on wealth that isn't functional, because when we talk about real estate tax then we're always talking about the burden on assets that aren't in function. So solutions exist, solutions are even about government decisions written. Because you know, the convergence plan talks about it, but the government doesn't implement it and says it won't be implemented. Therefore, we are aware that we are not solving the biggest deficit in the Republic budget. And that's what's worrying. Good and commendable that we give citizens a simpler system and a system that will protect them, which will indeed have something more in retirement. But we're not thinking about how we're going to provide the pension funds that are absolutely necessary. That's one of the problems we haven't touched in four years. Let's go back to another problem, and another problem is called the second pension column. All the analyses even at the introduction of the system have made it clear that 5% of the salary contributions are insufficient for the second pension column, insufficient. All analyses of world institutions dealing with this system warn the Republic of Croatia, the Government, in the Assembly that 5% is an unsustainable system of the second pension pillar. What does that mean? This means that all those who really will be users, not generation solidarity, but another pension pillar based on savings will have fewer pensions than those who have generational solidarity, and then there is no logic that we have a second pension pillar, we really don't have because simply in addition to its own savings, which should be the backbone of a pension that should be a new generation that doesn't talk about a new one, but a social pension, so social pensions will be bigger than those that people will earn by their isolation. Thus, familiar problems are known problems. But the competent ministry does not propose solutions, the government does not propose solutions. And then we actually wonder how we can actually come up with a solution to one of the biggest deficits in the state budget. And then let's not be surprised that we have solutions in the big VAT, which is not the intention of taxing pensions, it's not. And then you can only draw one conclusion. The coalition government of the left centre burdens citizens with taxes. All taxes are based on basic salaries and basic consumption, and the basis of consumption is again the citizens of Croatia most of them are workers or pensioners. In this way, we can say that Croatia is not social enough and that on the most important issue of the pension system it has not shown enough sensitivity. There's so much to conclude, and the law needs to be supported because it's for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103953	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103954	Dear counterpart Linic, when it comes to pensions, you often mention the fact of the lack of 17 billion kuna per year to be allocated to pensions. But not once, not ten times, we've talked a hundred times here about pensions according to the special regulations we should. It's 182000 people who should be singled out of retirement. And you should single out all those pensions or part of the pension that wasn't paid into the pension fund and you'd get less delusional, actually this is one hoax, a delusion of how much money it means in the Peace Fund. And the other thing that's very important is it's an important thing, and that's that people who are 40 years old, 41 years of employment retire under unequal conditions, get those pensions for the same amount, same year internships are too different. It all depends on who retired what year. It is actually such an injustice to people who have worked their whole lives and who have several hundred kunas or even thousands of kunas express the difference in retirement. These are the old pensioners, the new pensioners, who often speak of these injustices by colleagues from HSU. So here we are talking about these injustices, but we never correct these injustices or rarely correct them. So, to isolate everything that's under special regulations from the Peace Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103955	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103956	I agree with my colleague to do this, but I think this law that we're making right now gives us a real guess. Why? Because we're going to have a pension split to see what we've accomplished based on work, and what we've achieved by some special regulations. And now we're going to have the right amount that would be distorted, because you know the MP gets a pension. So he didn't earn all his pension by sitting in the Assembly something was in his working life. And that's why I think after this, it really won't be a problem for the Peace Service to single out and separate those pensions. And it will be I believe in a few billion kunas if it is. But you don't need to be burdened. The budget finances pensions of 17 and a half billion. So, anyway, we're giving out of the budget to the Peace Fund. And that's why there's no desire for the Peace Fund to be run specifically. You know, the same thing will happen to you with the Health Fund. We singled it out, very soon it will be deficits so visible that the new minister will probably ask for a return to the budget because the safest is in the budget, then you don't have to worry because there are simply too many expenditures, and insufficient revenues per million and 340 thousand employees. That's not enough number to keep both funds out of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103957	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103958	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Linic, you've touched some of the things that unfortunately in this House are very rarely discussed. However, these key provisions of this law are currently tangling the second pillar of retirement. Because most of these people, mentioned here in 2014, in fact in 2024 and 2027, will then come to the first big wave of those who will practically have most of their employment paid into the second pillar of retirement and then will become a social chaos. Because it's obvious that 5% won't satisfy it. The second thing, when a law like this is passed, it must have long-term fiscal assessments. To pass a law like this without long-term fiscal evaluations and say that they will... Fifty thousand kuna in 2016 is just funny, Mr. Deputy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as you're concerned, don't take it personally, but he just has to count on it. Because if you make it possible for someone, and you rightly allow them to retire at age 60 and 41, they're basically 5, 6 or 7 depending on how long the retirement limit extends to use the second pillar of retirement. And that second pillar of retirement was projected, however, to a certain number of years. So the consequences of this law are fiscally very difficult in the long term, and the consequences of this law on the reception of future pensioners are socially very dangerous. And that's why we're here pushing things like technical changes against which a man simply can't be. But the basic problem with the pension system all these years is that fiscal impact assessments haven't worked for 20 or 30 years. So just remember that story 6% plus 100 kuna, that cost 100 million kuna in one year. But today, after a few years, it costs more than a billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103959	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103960	I agree with my colleague Shuker that looking back for many years these are very difficult burdens for the state budget. Why? Well, because I am convinced that the social pension that will follow the second pension pillar will be at the height of today's generational solidarity. And that means that basically we will have the effects that the second pension pillar should bring, and the second pension column should reduce the amount for generation, we will not have it because simply for the sake of social chaos, we will have the obligation of the government and this Parliament to think about a social pension that will not be a social pension but will be a real pension based on generation solidarity where you will simply have to go to heights somewhere like you've worked 60 years, 40 years of employment and that you will have to provide such a high social pension. It is unfortunately only a sign that we have entered a system that we have not upgraded and that the effects needed by that second pension column provide we simply will not have. And not to mention what will happen to the funds when regular payments start and all that is, their liquidity will fall significantly and everything we wanted to achieve that the fund serves the financial market and strengthens the financial market in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately we will not have it. So I'm actually wondering if any of the government has to think about what to do with the other pension column?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103961	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103962	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, this is a very important topic because when it comes to pension insurance, then we have to look back at it as one-third of the population of the Republic of Croatia because these are people who depend on benefits from the pension system. When it comes to the law itself, then I must stress that certain provisions go in order to improve the law, in order to solve certain concerns and improvements, and in any case nothing is disputed in the law itself when we talk about reducing working time, when we talk about living partnership, when we talk about both inheritance and monetary incomes. There is no problem with the current provision that stands when it says changing the name to early retirement for long-term work, but I will stop here and look back at the 10,000 pensioners who were bitter, who at the time of the entry into force of this law had over 60 years and over 41 years of internships and they were permanently damaged, permanently reduced pensions. At the time, the legislator did not take care of those 10,000 citizens or pensioners who are having difficulty surviving because the law only started to apply to those who went into retirement after 1.01.2014. Many of these pensioners spoke to me personally, I talked to many of them, many of them complained in a way that they were discriminated against, didn't ask for their rights to be retroactively returned and paid for by some lags, they only wanted to be equal to the rights of the current pensioners because they felt that the payments of long-term contributions, and some of them were 46 years old who paid, were permanently damaged and their contribution to the pension system was much larger than those who went even into regular retirement and were not retired and were not reduced in pension. That is why I have submitted the amendment not in a way that has retroactively paid these pensioners some backlogs, but their right to equalise themselves with the rights of these 5.5 thousand pensioners who have gone into retirement since 1.1.2014 and are no longer retired, in a way to deprive them of their contribution that they have been paying for years and have lost at the time of retirement. I believe that the legislator will keep that in mind, because people are bitter, people say they are not equal in our society, especially not equal to the rest of the pensioners, they are called on and said that they will move and constitutional dispute in a way that will be annulled by such a provision because they believe they are discriminated against and I believe that this will be taken into account and value their contribution and equate with the present pensioners because it is also an opportunity to change the name of these pensioners to correct these injustices. Here the predecessors spoke, and the draftr of the law on this, in one part, and indicated that regarding the problem of providing funds in the first pillar of pension insurance is also the problem in the budget. We know that somewhere around 36 billion goes out of pension funds a year. And here were the speeches and that part of the pensioners went by special regulations in retirement, and now that we take that amount according to special regulations, that's about 8 billion and 200 million kuna, clearly they've made a certain contribution with the payment of contributions. The second thing is that their retirement is differently valued and clearly that it takes a really quality calculation to see how much the funds are missing in the pension column or that mandatory pension system. Some here have said that the rate should be changed, my colleague Linic thinks he has indicated it, raises some of the speeches that the second pillar should also increase the contributions of the separation. I have to say that the problem of the pension system is the first and second pillars, that we have never qualityized the consequences of the first and second pillars. We don't know today if someone's retired and has a pension from the second pillar of his pension. We know that some of whom have been reckoned to have been several kunas even. What will be worn by future pensioners we don't even know, but we know that this system was introduced in 2002, we know that the regulations were then passed that the mandatory in the second pension column go to those who are not 40 years old, and from 40 to 50 years old they could choose. We're about halfway there today, because 13 years have passed, and it still has to be 12 years before that generation comes to which that second pension column really is going to apply. What's gonna happen in those 12 years is nobody knows. But what problem do we have today? We have a problem today, because the more workers go into retirement, the less those who pay 20% into the first pension column, and when we bring or we don't bring it in 2002, then one quarter of the contributions have been transferred to the second pension column and then it's said it's gonna be great, and it's gonna be good and today we're complaining that we're short of money in the first pension column that we have to make up for it in the budget from some other funds. No one thought then what would happen and didn't count but said, "Yeah, it's going to be nice, it's going to be bigger employment, and then after six years, we're going to go into a certain crisis, into a certain recession, and since then we've got fewer employees, and the less and less employees, then it means that there are less and less deposits in certain pension funds. And here I have to point out one piece of information that I've been tracking, and it's about somewhere in the last three years that the number of pensioners in the last three years has increased by 8 800 pensioners, and the number of those who are paying contributes that it has decreased by 67.5 thousand. And clearly that such a system cannot simply survive and then we can only propose to increase the rate or possibly some other mechanisms go into further deficits when it comes to this budget, to cover the lack of these funds. And the question of employment, the question of a large number of employees, so far we haven't solved it, and practically most of the burden is on the back of pensioners, workers and a large part of the citizens, the submission of this total crisis. And what did we come here today? We came today to have a pensioner on 1.13 employees. And at this rate, if we move forward very quickly, we'll have one pensioner and one employee and then clearly no system will be able to handle it. Where, in what activities did the highest drop in employment occur? Agriculture and forestry 12 thousand jobs have disappeared, the processing industry 17 thousand, the construction of 10,000, the trade of 14 thousand, and the other about 14 thousand, which is a total of 67 thousand of those who pay. On the one hand, we have the prime minister to say that unemployment is a matter of national security, on the other hand, we argue against data on whether the real data of the State Statistics Institute or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is real. And that's where we're different from some 90 grand to 60 grand on that number. And we don't take into account a lot of the facts that we have somewhere around 22,000 farmers who pay for agricultural insurance but that's twice as much as this insurance because it's 10% and not 20% when we take together the first and second pillars. Clearly, on the other hand, we have growing poverty, an increasing number of people in poverty, and on the other hand, the data tells us that there has grown 221 multimillion people who have 210 million kuna each. We have meaning more and more unemployed, we have more and more those who live in poverty and on the other hand we have more and more of those who are rich in these times of crisis managed to get rich, get huge wealth, and somewhere in this data it says that somewhere around two thirds of the value of their property is a total gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. In this way and according to some estimates that say that and in the next period, the number of these multimillionaires will grow. What does that mean? So we haven't qualityd enough, that we're not when the issue of the pension system has been quality-settled and discussed it in a way and in that other variant not only when the proposer proposes something and only talks about the better that should happen in some future period and doesn't even matter about the worse situation and the worse situation that can cause certain problems without saying chaos. Clearly, the pensioners he has somewhere around 550 grand, who live from pension to 2000 kuna, and somewhere around 90,000 have up to 500 incomes, they're having a hard time living today, they're the ones who are blocked, they're the ones who can't settle their obligations. The other day I spoke to a lady whose husband had OPG, she retired, no pension contributions were paid, interest rates increased from 15 thousand kuna to another 14 thousand kuna, that's a total debt of 29 thousand kuna and she has a pension of 1100 kuna. Her husband died in the meantime, and since her pension, 1100 kuna, one third must pay the debt that the tax administration gave her with the tip. And the question of the system of this if it's serious about him and doesn't start talking more seriously, I'm afraid there won't be any chance of future pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103963	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have five replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103964	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tušak, at the beginning of your debate and so you started it and said that nothing is disputed in this law. I was surprised, and I took up a replica and yet you showed that in reality the most controversial in this law is 4 years of this government which has indeed done everything in order to close jobs, not to open up, which had no solution and solution to the problem of the system, especially with regard to the insurance of pensions and adequate pensions for young workers. Young people are long-term unemployed, working on black. Croatia currently employs a million and 300 thousand people, so the number is actually even, almost even with the number of pensioners. And it is really controversial, it is disputed how these young pensioners will be in their future poor old people like today's pensioners who barely end up putting together. Here's the question. You have indeed shown through your debate the controversial rule of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103965	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103966	Thank you. Well, my fellow Sumrak, when it comes to the pension system, I wouldn't single out this government alone, I'd single out the previous government because we brought this system back in 2002, and then there were some other governments. ... Okay, in 2000, but the second pillar began in 2002. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means no one can be amnested here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not really what we're talking about, and we are in this situation right now. In 2008, we went into a crisis and your government was already facing certain problems. When it comes to young people, it is, today we have the option of talking about, is, let's go hire young people, let's give incentives to hire these young people, not to give funds, but to free employers of certain means which is good, and I support it anyway. But what do we have in practice? When the law was passed, that's exactly what we warned about, and it happens today that these young people are hired because it's cheaper for an employer, and they're firing an old, old man who won't be able to get to work anymore, and it's a disaster. The consequences of passing certain laws are not analysed, but only in their application then they're banging us on the head, then we're going to change them by emergency procedure, then we're going to introduce certain controls, but that's it, so here we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103967	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103968	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tušak, I would refer to two things from your debate. First of all, you said you didn't know what pension there was from the second pillar. They cannot agree with this because it is clear, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute receives pensions from the Generation Solidarity System, and the Raiffeisen pension society's solution, which only leads to a solution to that pension from the second pillar. The only thing we can agree on here is the cost-effectiveness problem of being a member of the second pillar and saving in it because all the data shows that it is invaluable for the vast majority of employees in Croatia today. For what? Because about 70-80% of employees have paid below the Croatian average. For all of them, that pension from the second pillar will not be paid off, especially since so far we have not improved the Law on Supplements 4 to 27% where they are denied from it and this is the biggest difference and the biggest injustice that makes the difference between the first and the second pillars. The second thing you said was, you were about to increase the rate by the first and second pillars. And our economists also say that there are three things that need greater employment, that you need to either reduce pensions or increase contributions. Employment is what it is, we'll wait a little longer, pension cuts are out of the question because they're 2.5 times the average salary. The only increase in contributions comes into consideration, and here I must say that our 20% compared to European Member States and Central Europe have an average of 27%. So I ask how we can't be competitive with 20% if they're 27% competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103969	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103970	Thank you. Comrade Schamper, yes, I may have misstated the calculation. It's not a problem with this calculation, but it might be a mistake. How many pensioners are receiving from the second pillar, I'd like to know how many of them there are, and then we could talk about it. What you said I agree with you, but there is another problem, is in a country like this where taxes and contributions are a very heavy burden, where businessmen simply can't survive is the moment that they could increase contributions to pension insurance. They may be necessary, but it would be a further new blow that would put a lot of pressure on employers who could hardly survive because of the other taxes and contributions. So I think there's one solution that we're talking about, and that's the question of whether we need a second pension column like this, who's going to benefit from it, and what happens if this stays the first pension column that can no longer be paid in this way. It's a question that needs to be talked about because maybe some people who think about what they're making for them are also payments in the second pension column that it's a lot of money, but the moment they start paying their pensions, they'll see that they're not that big of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103971	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103972	Dear fellow Tušak, you have touched one of the most important things, and this is the redistribution of wealth, when you said how many millions of people have been born in Croatia lately. Look, all this rest is a rotten granola. This is the only important question. 99% of people fight over crumbs, and what's biggest is holding 1% of the people in the world. The same picture is in Croatia, probably much worse. Former Minister Skegro, who is one of the neoliberal attacks by ministers, said, "Don't think that retirement will be enough for you to eat, save." So be rude, tell people of 2500 kuna to save. What hypocrisy it is that you are saving. How? So he and Questus funds and all kinds of funds can get as much heat as possible. That's it. As far as we're concerned, I don't speak to any of our fellow MPs anymore, we live too well with other citizens. That's the question. This rest is just a fight over one of the bones we're eating. Multimillion-dollar redistribution of wealth, which is likely to come with a close reading by Mr Milanović Picetti, to find out how it can be redistributed. Because those who hold a fortune will probably give to the poor themselves. No, we'll have to take that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103973	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103974	Thank you. Well, my colleague Vuksic is a little bit, not a bit, but strange, but it is our reality that in crises we have more and more poor people, more and more who dig in containers, and on the other hand more and more multimillionaires. What's that? So that's not a good thing. Someone then takes someone if it's a matter of total cake to be shared. We know there's a cake like that. Someone takes a lot bigger slices at the expense of those who have less and less. Who makes that? Well, that's what we do with our laws, that's what we do with courtships to some and because we don't care about the fate of most citizens. And I think we here have to talk very much about the fate of most citizens, especially when it comes to a million and 200 thousand pensioners, because that's one third of this country that barely survives and barely lives from retirement to retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103975	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103976	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Tušak, you said in your discussion that when a second pillar of pension insurance was introduced through pension reform that he was actually well imagined. But now that after fifteen years of saying ourselves, we're about halfway calculating pensions from the second pension rate turns out to be in some cases just a few kunas, in fact one word that these pensions are not worth it right now. So, the truth is that when the pension reform imagined and thought about the second pillar, it was then considered that the separations were greater than 5%. So it started at 5%, so it was supposed to be increased, so that percentage to 7 and eventually to 10%. So that percentage really did increase, and unfortunately it did not. In 12 years, when the first generation would be in a position to pay her pension from the second pillar, she would actually get a solid pension. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103977	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103978	Thank you. Well and her colleagues Jelash, the projections were when the second pension column was introduced something quite different. But I say when projections are done then you have to count on what might be more negative in another case than the best. And when it comes to the pension column of the second and the separation in that second pension column, only if they calculated from the moment he was introduced, until the moment that the government paid interest on the basis of the bond, and how much the state gave to whom it gave. She gives pensioners in the second pillar. But on the other hand, the money she's missing is due on interest, double-paying. Now that's a thing we haven't mathematically calculated whether we're losing, whether we're winning. And what happens tomorrow is hard to say. The projection should begin today in the best version, but also in the worst version.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103979	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103980	Comrade Tušak, in your discussion, you give an example of a man and his wife and you state that he had a small OPG and that he did not pay contributions and how much interest came to those contributions. You see, non-payments from '97. The year is considered a skill, not something that has poored the long term and that today we have problems with both pension and health care. Because in 1990, I'm not even surprised at your thinking, because it's kind of general thinking like driving in traffic, blaming traffic, it's something common, something normal that happens to everyone. It happens to everyone and it's only the one who doesn't watch out, who doesn't respect the rules. But in 1997, so-called The criminal mini reform abolished the crime not only of non-payment of salaries, but of non-payment of contributions. We've had a lot of trouble introducing it as a felony. It used to be '97. the years, although since the 1990s, due to both the war situation and the general disorder in Croatia, these contributions have ceased to pay regularly. So, what am I saying? How socially dangerous this is and how no excuse is there for failure to pay off the contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103981	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103982	Thank you. I agree that it was irresponsible to allow someone to behave for a long time, but the question may have been whether at that moment that family could survive, whether the OPG created them enough means to survive and to pay for all their obligations. Maybe not, but it was meant to be a solution. And that's why there are laws that change at a given time. But now that that person has found himself in such a situation that he cannot comply with his obligations, then the state takes one third of that pension. And the same person for all of his taxes, for all of his spending so she doesn't take that one-third of the 25 percent state out of VAT alone, would pay taxes and contributions because she has to buy food, and she has to pay the bills. But no, we brought her into one situation that she was blocked, that she might have to forgive, that she had to go through the containers. And maybe in this way we could do it again with quality projections to see if we should have charged them with so much interest or maybe they just had to pay for the principal. It is a question of this state that should be very wise when it comes to sensitive citizens with low incomes and allow them to survive. It's another problem that we haven't solved, but that woman we've brought into such a situation that today can't simply survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103983	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. First, honourable representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103984	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, as usual of two independent club representatives, will share this debate. In the first part, I will talk about some things in principle, and in the second part, Mr. Damir Cain will speak. Croatia has a lot of problems, and in all areas it should not prove, and the statements we hear and from the highest places do not encourage but worry the Croatian public. It's like we're buried in trenches and there's no way out of the tunnel, there's no light at the end of that tunnel, or I don't see it myself. When such burning problems as pensions are solved, I feel it is necessary to establish the right criteria to measure and address these problems. One of these standards and attitudes would be the equality of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia before the law. If we ignore this rule and do not take account of it, then dissociation in society will occur almost spontaneously and it seems impossible to prevent it. When times are hard, solidarity between groups must be expressed. This has been followed by mankind since the beginnings when the leaders of the tribe decided who would survive for food shortages until today's great social differences in various categories of the population, so when it comes to pension insurance and wages, pensions that are hard to survive with. But it's the final stage of life, survival, and then that second phase of resistance and the struggle for that survival will come. I believe that before the law, which is one of the maximums of the French Revolution, there must be equality between all citizens before the law, so when it comes to pension insurance or pensions that we have paid, which we do not get. On the one hand, poor citizens are growing, and on the other hand, those whose incomes go to millions of kunas. This should be done to make these differences as little as possible and to introduce a system of taxation for those who have more to give in the common register. Secondly, we need to establish a financial discipline that doesn't seem to me in Croatia but weighs on each side and justifies its laws as generally applicable laws. In this part, I will look briefly at my situation, I can be subjective here, it is normal when it comes to my own person, but in principle, and when problems are solved in general, that equality should be preserved before the law and that there should be no privileged groups, individuals or institutions in times of crisis. As a longtime, 50 - year - old priest, I made an annual contribution to social and health insurance. Now that I've met my retirement conditions in 2011, I've decided to retire, commit myself to one social work, but not through a political party and commitment, but through a civic initiative. And I've earned sanctions that continue today that I can't deal with politics, and the old Greeks have defined a man as a homo-polyticus, an animal polyticus, so man is basically a political being, and if you're not into politics and general things of society, then the question is what is human? Certainly retired, yes, officially, but I haven't received a single June to this day. That's where the Church counts the parliamentary salary that I share and I'm left with 5,000, but that's my business, but the Church is privileged in relation to or some other communities are privileged at the expense of the impoverishment of the regiment itself. Last day, Pope Francis said that money is Satan's feces, but that feces seem to be highly appreciated by us, and the Pope is not exactly listening to what the Pope says. I am in favour of respecting this authority, regardless of what some of my opinions have and hold on to them, I am not establishing any party but a civil initiative, and I believe that all of us who deal with the general problems of society in nature should be human people, humanists of Croatia who will advocate for the common good and then put their interests also in solving but in the context of solving the common good. Thank you very much. Damir Cain will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103985	Dear Madam Vice President, maybe the money is Satan's feces, I don't contradict Papi, but the Vatican Bank is full of it. However, to kind of touch these multimillionaires that almost everyone before me has spoken of. There are 220 people in Croatia, richer than 30 million dollars or 167 million kuna. There were 3% more than 2012. Ten years ago, it means more than $30 million was RH 128. So the number of these multimillionaires in Croatia has increased by 72% since 2012. That the number of Croatian citizens weighing $30 million is growing because these percentages are far away, so that growth is far faster than in the world. By the number of millions, we exceed Slovenia. So if someone has that someone will have more and more in this country, and if someone doesn't have anything in this country or end up in Canada, Australia, America or what I know about Germany. Who's being taxed here, who's he usually peeling off to? Guli is small and large if it is possible to help them as a rule. Yes, the system is in the Republic of Croatia which we heard at the very least overstretched. In late January of this year, the unemployed in Croatia were 329,751, the number of unemployed, what is interesting, what is frapantic is smaller than last January for 54,625 people. And then a man asks himself where are these people? And on the other hand, the number of jobs in this country is incomparably smaller. A clear answer can only be one, those people ended up abroad. Last year is believed to be the number of those who left the Republic of Croatia close to 50,000. For the first time, the number of employees at the 1.3 million population border is. Since the crisis, Croatia has lost 200,000 jobs, the relationship between pensioners and employees today is 1 versus 1.07 or to 100 pensioners for 101 workers. In early 2008 it was 1 to 1.34, now it's 1 to 1.07. The Minister of Social Care hopes to increase the number of jobs in 2015, but the decline in industrial production at the beginning of this year will be mild GDP work at the end of last year, this year I am afraid we will be denied. 44.8% of unemployed are young to 25 years old, and the number of unemployed is higher by 2 times than in 1989. The workplace today is a raffle or better said lottery. Everything falls apart from the number of employees in local self-government, one word in the upgrade. Twenty-two thousand people from the crisis here have more employees, two hundred thousand on the other hand in the real sector are less employees. Supports are the key to keeping jobs and one system is normal support. If the crisis has lost 200 thousand jobs, why is it surprised that 322 500 people are blocked, 700 thousand people are paid below 2500 kuna? It is clear that the biggest deficit is what everyone was talking about at the Mirovinski Fund, right behind it at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and that is why it is clear that it is necessary to correct that pension insurance rate. But still don't hit, as some suggest on the property because the people in this country who have been saving property overnight would be destroyed unless we treat the first and second real estate and in the future as, or rather, treat that tax and level with the current municipal fee. Groh people in this country inherit properties, come in the old years they can no longer process it, what needs to be taxed is perhaps these multimillionaires may not but certainly those who do not know how to come to state property, bought it for 1 to 2 kuna, and then later by urbanisation reselling it for 30, 50, 100, 200 and more euros. It should not be taxed, it should be taken away for a start. The peasant needs to be allowed to take everything, to the speculator. Give the peasant blood, don't let the others have blood, that's what I'd say blood, bloodbath, morbid, but just let it be taxed. At least if you were being processed, then a man would keep his mouth shut, but this clearly doesn't work. I'm afraid the second pension column is turning into a big con, which with the funds tomorrow, won't be long and we'll have to get the second pension column back into the budget. In 12 years we've heard pensions will be fully paid to those of the second pillar, but I said, it'll all end before that in the first pillar. Just one piece of information to say that the opportunities in this country stand for 8 jobs here in the Assembly recently reported 1150 people interested in one job competed with 144 people. And I'll say again, in the worst situation are craftsmen. Recently, a letter came out in the press, I will read it, react, says about this when it comes to pensions the same thing, this letter does not apply to me alone, but unfortunately to all citizens of similar fates in Croatia. I worked for 40 years, went to an early retirement of 2200 kuna. In the meantime, my husband died and life goes on. I wonder how. My first problem is a small pension director and all that and then they say the legalization of the house I live in. In the meantime, she found a part-time job, made a work contract from four hours a day. I was all happy because I thought it would be easier to bear all the accumulated costs when the labour inspection arrived and forbids the employer to work. I wonder if anyone will pass a clear law for us who are not yet forced into debt slavery and the dams are working for us. It should not be said that even the worker who hired such a pensioner paid the fine. How do you treat it in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103986	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović is a replica to the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103987	You say Don Ivan, Mr. Grubisic how you're retired when you decide to deal with public affairs, deal with politics. Here let me have my brief thought because all well-intentioned people surprised it in Croatia when your fellow believers in the past gave you up because you announced politics. So I'd kind of put it down to this. Maybe it's, I don't know if you'll agree, but allow me to think about it, maybe you're retired from their side, even though today you say you didn't get the pension you deserve because you became their serious political competition, especially with a policy that would truly and truly reveal more than the face of the church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103988	Ivan Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103989	I thought when I retired, I could do business officially as a sociologist of social issues. However, this interpretation and opinion have been questioned by some acts of priestly order and marginalization in full in front of the people and in front of fellow priests. I believe that if I paid my pension regularly, as it was prescribed that I had the right to retire regardless of the church's views and the four laws signed with the Vatican where the church interpreted that it had the right to prescribe terms for its members regardless of the state's laws, but then the question is how much the church accepts the independence of the state and its laws, how seriously it holds them. I'm going to mention one event, one expressed opinion of the great Russian writer Berjayev when he came to Paris in 1922 and left behind the October Revolution and then asked him what had happened and what had happened in Russia, he replied they brought us back to the Middle Ages. I fear that we have brought Croatia back to the Middle Ages, where some institutions have been privileged since the 11th century by Pope Innocent III and Grgur VII, established such a system where the infallibility of the high priest is first and then followed by infallibility and bishops and all those acting in certain responsibilities. I don't want to because I worked in the communist system almost my entire priestly age until the '90s, we lived with the people and for the people and I didn't feel as isolated as I felt today in alleged democratic Croatia. That's one of the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103990	Thank you very much. We now have a replica of Zeljko Saba at the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103991	Your Honor, we hear very often, not only from you in your presentation but from a number of other politicians who have a chance to speak to the public. I would call it regret for some past times that may have been more just for the people. '91. the years when we were left alone and in the Homeland War, we didn't know exactly how we would be arranged for the Croatian state except that we wanted only independence. So then after socialism came capitalism, that many didn't even know what it would bring us. I would say and freely say that the socialist regime, in a certain way, was a fairer arrangement than capitalism, and especially that we have in many countries, and in Croatia, which is in some way not controlled, and especially after the robbery, I would say the privatisation we had in Croatia to enable the creation of such one capitalism in our Croatia. But yet we have this arrangement and is it good that we say what may be difficult for those today, to raise them and create an anti-enterprise climate, to mention 200 or 400 of some rich people, to create a climate in Croatia, to make those 200 or 400 rich simply change a country where they will invest their capital and where there will be a different climate. Which would be, and we know that many athletes, even more so, go and apply to other countries and pay taxes in some other countries because they prefer it and all by law. What would happen today if those 200, 400 left the Croatian state if we weren't fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103992	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103993	I'm not ashamed to admit that as a boy I was a beggar, that I begged a handful of flour from those who gave it to the local mill, but it gives me a sense of solidarity with those who today were on containers or dumps of old bottles. I work with them, and I'm in solidarity with them. It is clear that I am for my own Croatia, internationally recognised because my family has given seven victims for Croatia. I don't know who can name the deceased Kata Šoljic with four sons, but my family gave seven victims. So I am free, but I have to admit, and these are indicators that there weren't this many unemployed in that former system, there was a difference between the privileged and the common ones rather than the one that hurt the eyes. So there were no unemployed people, there was no such difference in pensions, and there were no homeless people because they were getting loans, paying them off, taking care of young people, and not everything that was Satanized, and everything we do... and we brought Croatia into the tunnel without going out. That's what I'm afraid of, and that's why I thank you for making it possible for me to say this in front of this tall home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103994	We now have the replicas of the presentation of fellow Caine. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103995	Dear fellow Caine, at the very beginning you made one remark regarding the Vatican Bank that it was full. I would only remind those who listen to the Vatican Bank deal with the Vatican Bank in the 1970s, Godfather 3 and there can learn a lot about the Vatican Bank, how the church got the money. You were talking about multimillionaires. Well, now it's a replica that surprises me when the Social Democrats talk about the anti-entrepreneurship climate or when it comes to what's supposed to be today. Well, here, there's a lot of work going on in the Parliament that capitalists feed or entrepreneurs feed the workers. You changed the thesis a little, so I guess the workers of Todoric's food, not Todorovic workers. What's he making out of that profit, how did the profits come about? Well, those are thesis replacements. Only you don't worship capitalists, I kiss hands. Well, we're in a slave company today, with that slave company 200 years ago being fairer because they said you're our slaves, and today we bow down to banks that lay off as part of the debt they've already robbed. It's all a replacement. And the Social Democratic Government says it like this, see how the banks are good, the part that they robbed you is going to give you back a piece. Wait, who's feeding who? Well, the worker isn't the slave that should be thanked to those to whom. That's what you're talking about, Mr. Cain, about these multimillionaires, and if they were shopping, you said about the kuna, they didn't even give it to the kuna, they didn't give anything. They took credit from the bank, they paid off the company's profits, and what they didn't pay back, the banks failed, and then the taxpayers recovered the banks. It's a clean one of those big robberies where this company started.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103996	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103997	I really don't know who Mr. Vuksic's replicated, whether he's replicated me or the SDP club. As far as I can see, Mr Vuksic is at the club with Slavko Linic, the same man who left the Social Democrats. But I agree with Mr Grubisic, there was no independent Croatia until '90. years, but it's in that country whatever it was, but it's the state that was more social and fairer than this country. Normally, we all wanted to make changes, but we also did not expect that such a bankruptcy of moral values would take place in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103998	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u103999	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, you were saying something before the end of your presentation, and I've been raising a replica board lately, about what happened. but it's quiet talk, so-called. economic lustration. The state audit in the last century has claimed, while Sima Krasic led it, that 90% of the firms in the 1990s were, therefore, privatised in the wrong way, to say criminally. However, according to the State Audit report, no one has done anything. If you said so yourself and thought about not putting people in jail, then what they used now in a difficult situation is part of their wealth and gain and capital passed on to those who are, therefore, to the state. The people are states that have actually been building this for decades, if I didn't say for centuries, there would be at least a slight shift in terms of both this Peace Fund and pension insurance. Therefore, an economic lustration that is more important not because of prison, not because of penalties in terms of prison sentences, but because of the separation of some of the funds from their profits and what they have earned by criminal privatisation, and for the benefit of the state. That would be good, and I welcome that debate of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104000	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104001	Yeah, I always ask myself how it's possible in the Republic of Croatia, so in those 25 years, you get to $30 million worth of property. That's the equivalent of 167 million kuna. I guess nobody works in the Republic of Croatia in a fair way can get that money. What's also interesting, 10 years ago these multimillionaires weighing $30 million in the Republic of Croatia was 128. In 10 years, that figure has increased or increased by 72%, and today it exceeds 220 with a trend of growth. The more ordinary, small people grow, the harder the situation becomes among them, the more uncertain they become. I think that indeed some institutions in this country would if they were to work to reconsider how these individuals came to those initial million euros after which nothing in their life was their problem anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104002	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104003	Madam Vice President, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which is practically already in effect for almost 3 months. We are discussing a law in which all articles and articles of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been translated from 19.12. and which have been in force since 1.1.2015. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation containing amendments to the Pension Insurance Act of 49 articles on 19.12.2014. It would be difficult to find such a case in the history of the Croatian Parliament's work when the government changes the law to 25% of the points in the regulation, 5 days after the Croatian Parliament's meeting ended, without the conditions being met. So the regulation changes something even when there are really some extraordinary circumstances. 25% of the laws were amended by Regulation 19.12. five days after the Croatian Parliament's work was completed. I am sure that in those 5 days, or 3 working days, the administration could not prepare amendments and amendments to the law of 49 articles. Of course, this law has been prepared long before, and it is interesting, and since this law contains only what the regulation contains, why it took 2 and a half months, 2 months after the start of the Parliament's work, to wait for these amendments to the law to come into this Croatian Parliament. So the question is why did the government actually want to avoid discussing these changes in December last year, and even today to discuss legal solutions that are two and a half months in use, and with this amount of change, I don't know what makes much sense, except here what will follow a technical raise of hands and a confirmation of actually that Regulation of 49 articles that took place on 19.12. In addition, it is worth reminding that the Pension Insurance Act was then amended by a regulation not one year after the start of the year 1.1, which is 25% of the articles. But, unfortunately, for three years, we have witnessed such methods of trying and failing, experimenting which all together leads to a breach of legal certainty, a deterioration of the conditions of business of the investment climate, and worst of all, this is not an exception but a rule of government. It has not happened in the government's mandate to pass some law, and it has not changed in the same year often and more times, all with disastrous consequences for the economy and for society. For example, tax laws in three years 40 times, pre-curricular laws 5, 6, how many times have changed over several months. Labour market laws, the pension system, ten times, so what is related to encouraging investment are all just some examples of experimentation that for our consequence have the fact that we have become the worst economy in the EU. In addition, this government is trying to convince us that these are major reform moves, and what reforms are under way has been clearly said by the European Commission recently, with its warning that the government must finally present a concrete reform plan within 2 months, because it is followed by pensions and sanctions, and probably what will be the worst that will happen is preventing access to EU funds to European funds. This government and the minister of resolution who is here today is unfortunately not here to assure us that the pension payment has not been questioned and that the pension system is not compromised. That is, of course, true, until as long as we can borrow, as long as we can do the tax press and tax revenues, we patch up a deficit in the pension fund. Until then, pension payments are of course not compromised, but the system is compromised. And the real question is how long can it be like that? In the 12th month of 2011, the number of insurance companies was one million and 496 thousand and the number of users million and 212 thousand. The ratio was 1 per 1.23, 1 pensioner per 1.23 employee. 2nd month 2015 number of insurance companies million and 387 thousand, number of pensioners million and 223 thousand, ratio 1 to 1.13. In three years, we have 100,000 less insurance and 10,000 more pensioners. 10% worsened the ratio of insurance and pensioners. If such a trend continues, pensions will be paid in increasing amounts from tax revenues until the economy is destroyed and the last taxpayer dies. It's a very certain scenario that will be the direct consequence of this government's disastrous economic policy. But fortunately, the end is soon coming to an end. The scenario warns us not only the local public, entrepreneurs, trade unions, economists but also the European Commission, which warns us in its review of the state of the Croatian pension system that the share of pensions from gross wages will fall to 22% of the average gross salary, now it is 31%, with a very well-known fact that the government is doing nothing to create conditions for this direction to be reversed. As for the law itself, in addition to some technical changes, some important newspapers should be mentioned that should not have been followed by a government regulation. So, among other things, that's how it works with the Life Partnership Act. To remind us, and that is already said today, this law came into force last year on 5.08, we, more than half a year after that, harmonize the Pension Insurance Act with the fact that we, of course, did it three months ago in a regulation. And here, in accordance with this Life Partnership Act, it is worth mentioning once again, is the right to ensure family members who have concluded a life partnership and it is said that family members are a life partner, a child who is being cared for by a partner, a child of a deceased life partner, that I do not read everything and what I would like someone to explain to me because I cannot figure out what it would be and who in practice would be the life partner of the insurance parent that the insurance company maintained in accordance with the provisions of this law and the rules on the life partnership of the same sex person. Maybe there's someone a lot smarter here, I believe there are people like me who can explain to me what it is that parent's life partner is, the insurance parent who becomes a family. The fact is that we are not, it is prescribed of course from the Life Partnership Act, the fact that we do not have a defined family in the Croatian legal system, I have tried to find it, but every law defines the concept of family and who is part of family. So here's the law, the Life Partnership Act, that's what it's all about. So, what is it, sir, I ask you directly, today's family in Croatia? But here, and that's probably the debate in the wider context, not just about the pension system rights. And I'd really like to know who the insurance parent's life partner is. Something I would especially like to warn about is the issue of the functioning of the established model of art, and it concerns the pension system. In fact, everything about art and pension insurance and health insurance, social security, preschool and school education committee at the Ministry of Defence, professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities, protection of war and civilian war victims, all of this has been transferred since 1 January 2015 to the Institute of Arts. According to information, the complete collapse of the system! 12 900 items in the office on February 8th, 17% solved. I note, therefore, that the regulation has already transferred this, and this should also work with regard to the pension system, and in the context of these facts of total chaos and disorganization, the question is that in this segment these skills jobs will also be carried out at all and in what time. There is clear evidence that the Administrative Procedure Act is being violated and that the terms and deadlines defined here are being violated and transferred over the year. One of the major changes mentioned today is the separation of pensions that we remind function from 1.01.2015. And the regulation is here and said, and now it's being passed into the law that it's not worth it to the defenders until the 6th month. I just want to draw attention here to how this is defined and described by the defense attorney. It is said that the key changes relate to the delay in the application of the category of Croatian Homeland War defender, which is defined here by the proposer as an extremely sensitive category of pensioners who have achieved their pension under specific circumstances. Indeed, there are more and more creative descriptions and definitions of the state, status and position of Croatian defenders except for attempts by the Croatian government to finally and definitely gain courage and strength from the president himself and continue to solve the problem of Croatian defenders and their demands that we have already heard for more than 3 months since the protest. It is said that this separation will not have financial effects on defence pensions seen, but it is not clear from the wording of the articles in this law that it will ensure that the level of defence pension will not be reduced. I couldn't find it. Somebody tell me where it says it. It is also a general question and I do not have the right answer which is essentially the real meaning and effect of that act of separation of pensions or of issuing a pension solution because everything that has been done before and it is known how much pensions have been achieved and how much so-called. in particular, because as far as the financial part is concerned, we are now over 50%, or slightly less than 50% of the money needed to pay all pensions, we are providing from the state budget, and already someone has said that before, no major changes can be made there, so we have to separate it no matter how many times we do. We will be behind the pension, of course, until the economic situation changes, until more and more for all categories of pensioners are improved significantly, both in income and in the state budget, so that pensions can be paid at all. For all these reasons, I am not sure that we are able to support this law, although I say the thing is simple, three months have all these provisions already in place and probably follows only technical handlifting as always until now when the government proposes something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104004	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104005	Comrade Popioč, you have rightly said that this document, which is practically 3 months in use, we are discussing it today. However, since we no longer know in Croatia how many employees we have, how many unemployed we have, one data is the Institute of Statistics, one data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. However, when we talk about how many employees today waste on one pensioner or pensioner to the number of employees then I think we are constantly wrong about something which is that 290,000 employees, 250 thousand at the state level and about 40,000 at local government units that cost the government's budgets and budgets of local regional self-government units somewhere around 36 billion kuna, and when we exempt them from it, because practically from the same amount, pensions are paid, then we basically have 0.8 in the real sector covering one pensioner. And that's what's worrying, and that's what we should discuss today when we talk about this law. Because all of these provisions, since there is no assessment of the fiscal impact, lead us to the questionable payment of pensions from the state budget in some years to come. But it's very interesting that when we pass certain laws, and by these certain laws, we give certain pension rights, then nobody says anything about it, but they're all for it because these are certain measures that have a populist character, although for those who are entitled to it, it has nothing to do with populism. However, I say very interesting that now, as with Croatian defenders, someone wants to use the Pension Insurance Office to show that Croatian defenders are the burden of the Croatian state, perhaps for some they are, but they certainly are not for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104006	Thank you. The Djuro Drinker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104007	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, of course, is a very clear and precise picture of what you have said today and the economic and situation in public finances. And it should be said and repeated, therefore, that all the expenditure that the state budget, of course, suffers today, or who gets all sorts of receipts from the state budget, is bareing the fact that in the state budget and the less and less people are paying out of the original production, from the real sector, and today we have heard one offensive of the new left or as it is already called, an independent left that and probably part of the Croatian society that is trying to create something in these circumstances probably didn't like to have in Croatia to be the easiest. However, none of this can and will not be fixed until the situation is in motion. So your data of 0.8% of those who actually create and pay... I beg your pardon? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not 0.8 the ratio so that they create and do not consume funds from the state budget is exactly what I'm talking about how long it can last. So it's unsustainable and it's at the bottom of the sink and at the very point of firing and decomposition. Unless this changes neither pensions, of course, nor all those who consume and receive ultimately salaries from the state budget can be sure of when these salaries and pensions will actually sit on their accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104008	The turtle of the Shemper Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104009	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Popioč, you were talking about a very unfavourable ratio of 1 to 1.13 about the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners. Of course it's a disastrous piece of information, however, I've given myself a little effort, so I'm on my way, no matter what I can't go back to the past, but it's good to see what happened. The crisis started in 2008. We had a million and 604 thousand insurance. That's about 200 grand more than today. So today we have about 200 grand. During your government, there were 13,000 missing. In the last year of this coalition, 70 grand. But the worst part is, the biggest disaster happened in the '90s, '99. 562,000 jobs have gone missing. We got 362,000 new pensioners, 200 grand went to the stock market. In the '90s, the ratio was 3:1, '99. One-38-one. These are facts and it is good that our Croatian public hears that the disaster occurred not only in the first three years of this government, not in 3.4 years of your previous government, but we need to know when the rights, true disasters and for Croatian pensioners and for the entire employee Corps happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104010	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104011	I agree with you that the real and biggest disaster for Croatia took place in '91, '92. And a few years behind that, but of course you didn't think about it, I'm quite sure of it. A real disaster occurred with a terrible destruction, annihilation that came from the east, aggression and destruction and, among other things, the most precious economic centres in Croatia from east to 50 km south of here in Karlovac, not to say Sisak, Zadar, Petrinja and not to list it as a disaster. How much industrial potential was destroyed in that disaster, how many hundreds of thousands of jobs if you say so. But do you think the socialist economy itself wasn't a disaster? Where did she survive in the free world? Today we heard one big moan for those times on your side, this entire Corps. Where is this socialist economy you're celebrating today? How much did she succeed in the new circumstances of jobs and where there was no war to keep? I'm not saying that our people weren't able to work, to create, but it was a failure. When world circumstances changed in the '90s, when the blocks collapsed, when that phenomenal socialism of yours disappeared, then of course... And the whole utopia of such an economy and such an economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you're talking, of course, then consider all the facts and all the circumstances that you don't want to hear, but that's true and that's facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104012	This is better not to comment on such discussions because they don't lead to anything. Tomislav Žagar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104013	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Popioč, so what we can agree on is that the pension system is a system that is really experiencing difficulties in these times. On the one hand, we have a social state with which we want to give people the rights they have under the law of any previous state, any of these new ones we bring. On the other hand, we have an economy that needs to finance these rights, and there is simply a conflict that is imminent. Of course, we must also take into account the resistance to changes in each system and pension system because we, from the current distribution system, actually want to move gradually to the capitalisation system, which necessarily requires less protection of those weakest. But when we talk about trends, I will try, in line with the previous replica, to go a little further, but not to complain, to talk about it, but just to show that these trends are not new, that they have been around for a very long time in the world. Some advanced, developed countries have similar problems, but in time they began to solve them. So here at our premises in 1950 was the ratio of 9:1, almost 9:1 employees compared to pensioners. Since '55. There until '70. A sudden fall to the '90s. Then it was relatively stable since '70. '90s. 2.83:1. Then we have '95. sharp fall at 1:45, 2001. 1.36:1 and practically this ratio takes place somewhere and that crisis year 2008 and falls to today's 1.13. So it's not a trend that's caused by this or that government's unhappiness, simply because of a number of circumstances. Here in 2003, there were 6 billion missing in the pension system, 19 billion missing today. And it's a trend. So these are serious problems that we have to fight, and we don't need to get them out of context, and you've caused two dates, you wanted to show it when all the evil in the pension system has happened in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104014	You called in the answer? ... The Djuro Drinker's reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104015	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, we can discuss everything from time to time, what's important is what's going to be in the future, first of all. The fact is that you received elections based on some claims, promises, programs and explicit facts that you presented to the people that it would be different and that you would change something but you changed it up. If you had at least managed to keep one to the 23rd, we can see today that it would have been a great success, but 100 grand of the insurance company is less. We can't talk about employment and unemployment anymore obviously because all the numbers are when they don't match trying to disabling, saying they're not true, that I don't know anything. So, the fact is that 100,000 people went back a few years from Croatia, which is why it's less registered unemployment than real, but it's the fact that more and more active people in the active population are working for us. You said that you would reverse the negative trends for which here, as you say HDZ at some point was... but you came to power with some expectations, with some promises but we see that everything of course has changed deeply and it's much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104016	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104017	Yes, fellow Drinker, you said fortunately this power won't last much longer. I ask you lucky citizens either your own personal happiness or you as a member of the HDZ. I am sure that citizens know very well how happy they were during your government, but happiness is a relative term and that would be discussed. What I'd like to draw your attention to and ask is that I really don't think there's any point in people being afraid of how a questionable retirement will be because I really don't think that's correct. And as for this socialism that you mention, here I would ask you to teach me as a young member of a SDP and a person who has not had the opportunity to live in this socialism, that perhaps even now, once and perhaps with coffee, teach me what socialism was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104018	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104019	Thank you very much, ma'am. That's cute. I don't think you should ask me, ask your parents. In the '80s, first, second, third, rows of powder, oil, par-nepar, bonuses, diapers I went to Hungary for, I mean, let's not open it at all because I agree with you, Madam Vice President, it really doesn't make sense because it doesn't lead anywhere. And what people and people think about the results of your government, what was 5:0, 4:0 in the last few choices. And that's why I said, I didn't say that, I'm going to repeat exactly, that fortunately it comes to an end, and you've interpreted it fortunately here comes the end of this government, so that's really how it is. Fortunately, these trends that are here are what they are in the last three years of your reign will stop, and I am quite sure that the people will choose what they think will stop it and turn it in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104020	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members, in your debate you have really questioned the reality of how the citizens of us MPs perceive us and why this is the case. Well, because of this government you said well, we are now discussing the law for which some regulations have been passed, and today we are discussing something important. Well, that's the respect of the Parliament by the government, and we know Prime Minister Milanovic, who comes here with the greatest disgust to this House of Highs. Your second question was what family was. Well, I was thinking whether or not to tell you about it, I know that you know that, and the family has always been the foundation of society for us. And what happened to that family now? She's connected, humiliated, and poored. Through all this, and unfortunately this law will not be able to help her until such a family is restored to dignity. And who makes a family? For me, family makes up a man and woman who are married, if God gives and children who will be in that marriage or those closer to blood relatives. It's family to me. And you see, what you should do to that family is stop negative demographic trends. Young people no longer start their families, don't get married, don't live together because they can't buy an apartment, and don't even think about one day having to live with their wife or with their husband a pension like they used to think, and as it is, there will be a future in the work of a new government that will certainly replace this government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104022	After four years, someone always replaces the government. Djuro, will you answer? Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104023	Well, here's a fellow Drinker I don't want about the past, I really want to in two or three sentences to potential some parts of your debate. The first fact that we, as a legislative body, have very few opportunities in the right way to discuss some legislative proposals because here yesterday in one debate it was said that out of 700 and some of the laws that were passed during this call over 500 was adopted by an emergency procedure. And lately, we have a lot of laws whose provisions are already in force and where in some ways only what has been solved by the government by the regulation of the law is kind of being verified. However, this is good at least so much that we have opportunities to discuss some issues that we cannot discuss when some laws are passed through such mischievous laws. If we have a debate under the law, then by the ruling and fellow parliamentary representatives of the ruling coalition as blind, we stick to those proposals made by the government, and I will repeat once and for all that the Law on the Single Body of Art and today the subject of this law was not a good law, that the law is not in force, that the single body of art is not working. You mentioned more than 17,000 items that will stand or stand, but if we look through the fates that a fixed person must wait for months, but perhaps a year and more to receive an extra for care and assistance that is 500 kuna, that the help to hire a person with some form of disability that amounts to 350 kn is waiting because of this relationship with people who need to be artificial, that the mother who has a child should wait maternity leave a year, etc. etc. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104024	Thank you, colleague. Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104025	Thank you very much. I was in the Croatian government for two years in a very intense period when we were completing negotiations with the EU and where there was a really very intense need for permanent adoption and legislation and regulations and everything, but I don't remember that we may have just a few articles at a time when the Parliament didn't have a need to bring it up. And it was, of course, explicit, not banning, but the urgency that such things are not done, and I remember the debate on this side when sometimes something like that happened, they were salves, which were said to be attacks that the Croatian government bypassed the Parliament. And now that's the first rule, the second one I don't have any adequate word not to insult anyone to change something into 25% of articles, 49 articles to make a regulation 3 days after the session of the Parliament's work that is indeed an insult to this House of Commons, there's no doubt about it. I have direct concerns, I didn't have time to say everything back then, so this chaos itself and the complete confusion of the inability to organise when something is lifted and something is trying to create something new, and that's where the Office of Arts comes in serious problems in the exercise of rights, and here's one such complaint specifically cited the shortest rights of the healthiest part of the population. Let's say children with special needs and people with a permanent health condition. That's scary. Do we actually know the right situation, the right numbers and what's going on and whether we should have the opportunity to take on such problems both here objectively and honestly Talk and show that urgent things have to change. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] We don't hear anything about that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104026	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Popijač, you have well stated that some new dictionary describes the defence population in these amendments and additions to the laws that come after an emergency procedure after three months, after 3 months when the regulation has already made its own and when it is defined that the pensions achieved under special regulations will be harmonised according to the current coefficient, that there will be no change in the amount of pensions itself. While in reality it is said that the single body of art in the next three years will carry out a review of all people with disabilities, as well as the harmonisation of pensions according to the current values that are essentially reduced. And it clearly comes to the conclusion that here in the law is actually a hidden intention that in the next period there will be a real reduction. But thinking that I can derrogate with this law, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, is not and cannot happen because the Law on Croatian Defence is a lex specialis, and has built-in mechanisms that have not been amended so far. And all this seems to be a derrogation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences by this Retirement Insurance Act. Special circumstances in which pensions were made, I don't know what that should be. So it should be written that the Homeland War is a specific circumstance and these are the disabled of the Homeland War, the families of the dead, the prisoners, the missing, the parents and children of the deceased defenders. Well, that's how it's supposed to be written in this law if you want to talk about them already. And she is not respected, a conclusion that speaks of how this law should be postponed. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104028	Thank you. Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, that's the same key question as how to say someone and dare to essentially make something that was agreed, where the President of the Parliament was present and where they all unanimously made some decision and the conclusion that something completely different was made on the table first in terms of the regulation, and then this legal solution. The legal solution is now done because the regulation is of course already in effect within three months, but it is evident that there are hidden intentions and that in some of these, some of these legal formulations, escapades of course try to do something and put an end to the situation and after that, the thing is over. Obviously, people have recognized it, and apparently every day more and more confirms that they are not without reason there and that it is not really all that the whole public is now trying to convince themselves by the government, I don't know a few such and such banal demands, but it is actually a continuing and real intention that this category of user pensions really be denied and at least worsened the existing status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104030	Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104031	I signed up for the replica first to commend the fact that Mr. Popioč put out, which is that many jobs disappeared during the Homeland War. That the economy in the entire area of the former state was disturbed and that we felt it perhaps in the most difficult way. But that is why I did not answer for the replica, but when in the second part and at the end of your presentation you advocated, which is your full right, to appeal to the adoption of a special constitutional law on Croatian defenders. As far as I'm concerned, I am for the first category of Croatian defenders who have lost parts of their body for the Homeland to be done to them in the Croatian state and given to them. But I'm not going to deny before the law that we're all equal before the law, and I have to admit if I'm going to vote on that law that I'm going to be against it. We must all be equal before the law, and to the categories of 100% disabled, we must give everything the state can. You have also highlighted one thing that is very important in the debate, we can pass the law as well as in "In the name of the family" about same-sex heterogeneous marriages but in reality nothing has changed. So the same question is will Croatia come into a situation that will not be able to pay what it has promised, and with the Constitution it is bound, and then the question is who will be responsible for it? Will the people pay for what they cannot afford and what is promised by constitutional law? There's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104032	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104033	Thank you very much. I am quite certain that defenders in their demands do not express the desire to be more equal among the equals. I don't think that's how it should be understood, watched or understood. And if they had reason to be concerned they're not just material, they're not just so-called. Let's say "beneficiary" rights or what else you're talking about than one true need and that about the Homeland War and their status in the right way society finally and once and for all is determined. Because they feel like it's changing deeply. Of course, they are themselves, and I don't know how many times they've said it, it's not about a few hundred kunas, it's not about benefits, the rights that belong to them at the end, the Croatian state has long recognised it, but it's about one need and one obligation to talk about many other things and to talk about the Homeland War itself, and not just their status once and for all define it in the right way and to be him as the pillar and the foundation of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104034	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104035	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. This law defines a provision which adopts the 1997 Council Directive on a short-term framework agreement which removes the possibility of different interpretations in implementation and ensures equal access to pension insurance rights for insurance workers working with incomplete working hours, as provided for in the applicable provisions for insurance workers working full-time. According to that directive, part-time work to obtain certain social security rights is even with full-time work, so the Pension Insurance Act needs to deal with this issue more clearly. the explicit provision must define how work is equalised with part-time with full-time work to acquire pension rights. In addition, these amendments and additions will bring into line with the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, i.e. they will allow family pension rights to be granted to insured family members of persons who have concluded a life partnership with the competent authority as well as family members of persons who have not concluded a partnership but their living community can be equated with the extramarital. In addition, the right to extended insurance will also provide life insurance partners who have concluded a life partnership with a person of the same sex under the conditions prescribed for a spouse. Insurance companies, as we already have in the law, insurance companies who are 60 years old and 41 years old are entitled to a retirement pension for long-term insurance companies and so far the customers of early retirement pension due to long-term insurance are translated into retirement pensions for long-term insurance companies for the purpose of single monitoring the number of these users. In addition, disabled persons are allowed to gain the right to a disability pension due to their professional inability to work and disabled persons for part-time loss of employment due to a complete loss of employment regardless of obtaining insurance status after the right to retire. The process of training in pension insurance is also in line with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Single Body of Skills in a way that the competence for skills and physical damage is transferred to the Office for Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The supervision and control procedures for rights established on the basis of reduced working capacity, partial and total loss of working ability and physical damage shall be regulated. Therefore, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families are delayed the separation of pensions on 30 June 2015 and the separation mentioned does not have financial effects on the level of defence pension i.e. This does not reduce defence pensions. Therefore, a separate pension in July will be equal to the amount of pension paid in June 2015. The separate parts of the pension are summed up to the total amount of the pension equivalent to the amount of the pension before the separation. For this reason, the SDP club will support the adoption of laws by an urgent procedure, because we believe there really are legitimate reasons for this. The proposed law implements the harmonisation of the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act with the Law on the Single Body of Skills, since the process of skills in the field of pension insurance has been carried out since 1 January 2015 by a single body of art at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104036	On behalf of the SDSS representative's club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104037	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act is one of the fundamental laws that should in some way manifest social sensitivity and social care in our system and put it into practice in life. This law is quite nomotechnically written in our assessment, and when we examine it, we see that you need to be almost a real expert dealing with this very problem to interpret it in the greatest part of the provisions. Therefore, those people to whom this is intended do not have the best message that they can manage in all these powerful formulas, terms, calculations in the article in this article and so on without any specific definition. But okay, I guess that's how it has to be. Here are the questions that are essential. So we can make changes to the law and we can have solutions like this or those that are often conditioned by some kind of short-term economic situation and policies. In our view, it is a fundamental thing of this kind that will allow these provisions to live in the long term, that is, whether we have created assumptions that we can secure funds in the state, in the budget, in the funds that this social component is developing. We talked here about some kind of, a situation in the economy, in one Germany there are 42 million workers, and it's no problem then having a strong social component pension, health care, etc. My colleague Shemper said it very well and we didn't know that data, they're closer to having 1 to 1.13 is our relationship, sometimes it was 3 to 1 is the relationship between the working population and the pensioners and that's the essence of this topic. And these legal provisions are modeling what you'd like to be some kind of social component. I can agree that it wasn't right, but maybe as a craftsman's child has some basis to compare, so I'm saying that socialism wasn't very fond of craftsmen, but I have to figure out at the end of the story if something was happening right now, it wouldn't be destroyable if it didn't have anything to destroy. So the logic of things is that the system that it created is something, it created some kind of mass, some essence of industrial production, etc. that doesn't exist today. And that's the only logic for me without any ideological paints, etc. Without the burden, some of them I'm finding, and some debates some time ago, they told me in Osijek how much of these plants are now dark, how devastated they are, how September they were, and how many years ago they were, and so on. We can also conclude that this is the result of the war, and I agree, but let's also objectively conclude that a German who had been destroyed to the ground for 20 years has completely risen from the ashes, has become the strongest industrial power in Europe. So these are relationships that could be talked about, but I'm not talking about it right now. I think definitely we at the club think that this is the beginning, these stories, about these topics that have a social character, which are a strong pension system, and a strong health system is something that was first hit by a concept of neoliberal capitalism, and the result of that concept will only have opportunities in some time to analyze. I'm afraid it won't be a positive analysis of how it happened in some third-world countries like Latin America today, etc. where this neoliberal capitalism has destroyed all these components of social society. The law itself, the amendments to the law I think are the result of some practice and we support the ministry in its efforts to perfect the basic legal model. It has already been said here what it has come from, that I am not repeating it now, but it is a model of early retirement, basic retirement, a score of disability, deadlines that are likely to be adapted to some real life situation, the art that has proved to be corrected and I think that according to this model of skills is well corrected, that, of course, there remains a problem of breaking deadlines both in the art and in the adoption of these administrative acts relating to the identification of disability, that is something that is the disease of our administration system as well as the judicial system that we have discussed, and of course we should work on. We see that there is also a lot of attention to the category of same-sex marriages, i.e. the same-sex communities that have now received material assumptions from this law that they are equally involved in pension insurance and pension funds. And we think it's a good thing if we go, if we're going that way when we're equating same-sex marriages, then it's logical that the next thing you know, that pension component of those members is being arranged. And we see that we've done it fine. However, I am now at the end, I say, we will accept these amendments to the law but I must open one topic that we all avoid to talk about, which has recently become current in relations between the two states, that is what we received yesterday and in daily politics, as a message after the arrival of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia. So it is among other open issues, it is also about the compensation of the category of pensioners of Croatian citizens who in the period until '97. years that, due to war circumstances and other circumstances, have been suspended for retirement. I have to say here that this is primarily not a political issue, but a property legal issue. There's peace all over the world. There's inalienable law. In this case they are also a particular kind of social category because they are socially sensitive and endangered categories of inhabitants. And most importantly, when it comes to these pensions, it's about Croatian citizens who won that pension before '91. For years, therefore, who paid their entire working life into the funds of money and who, by their work and contributions, alluded to their pensions after '91. ...rejected. It has, of course, been suspended because of its war activities, it has been suspended due to a difficult return, it has been denied because of the fact that many people, that payment traffic has been suspended, postal traffic in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia that have been affected by the war, and that these people, therefore, have been affected by this more force, as well as more force or more major as it is within the legal virtue of international law, could not be held accountable for such circumstances. We have here today the fact that the two countries are discussing it, it is the Republic of Serbia, as I have said, which has its own political reasons, and it insists that we as one of the sides in these negotiations identify the persons who, therefore, determine the number, identify the people who did not receive the pension to calculate what that amount is, to simply create a basic parameter when talking about these users. Of course, as the other side, the Republic of Croatia has its reasons, it is called on, therefore, its reasons not to go to the compensation of these people, mainly calling for administrative categories, to the pension insurance regulation, to practice from '98. the years where debts could not be paid three years back and later regulations were reduced to one year to the fact that people themselves were guilty of not being able to raise their pension, etc., etc. So we want to use certain formal legal reasons, obstacles not to allow these people to acquire what they belong to. Finally, we will find ourselves in a situation where countries will settle this matter with bilateral relations because they will have to be bound by other international categories of Sarajevo Convention and we will have the fact that the Republic of Serbia will point out some 12,000 such requests for Croatian citizens who are still there. However, the issue remains of Croatian citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia living here and whose demands no one protects in this case who also did not receive a pension during the period. They're like that somewhere we know about 18 grand. So I know it's one topic that's hot, which is uncomfortable to talk about, which costs but we don't have the right to deny these people in these fundamental, fundamental rights because I repeat pensions is everywhere in all times inalienable property, these people acquired it before the war and alimony with their long-standing work of paying off that pension. And to conclude finally, what is most important, the current Government in its 2011 programme, 2015 positioned the pension system, made it clear that it would take into account the problem of those citizens who, although they regularly paid in pension funds, did not receive pensions for a certain period of time and, in agreement with the damaged, consider the method of compensation. So that's, the solution to the cases of these people I was talking about was part of the plan, or the current government program four years ago. Four years have passed, we have no moves, people are dying, probably those users half of them are no longer a living question is more what the amount of demands is but the fact that we haven't done anything all these years to at least talk about it and start talking about it. Article 37 covers Article 155 of this Law where there was in some way a good will at least to regulate the start of resolving this because here the budget is bound to pay certain amounts in other cases laid down by law. So we could also prepare here a legal assumption to start paying off, or to compensate these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104038	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104039	Comrade Horvat, at the very beginning you have established and I think that is the way it should always be mentioned, to see how forward and how to improve the system. You say during the war the war met us with three employees of one pensioner, today 1.13:1. You tell the pensioner and you say it's always the essence of this topic, and that's what really happened. While the defenders were liberating Croatia, then the government considered it a duty to have jobs free so that what was once socially almost free of charge for privatisation, in a way that, to this day, even though we have imposed a criminal act of non-determination of such crimes, we have not cleared up the whole situation. But here's today's edition of the government at the time, said Mr. Poppie speaking on behalf of the club, he denies it relatively says it doesn't matter, or all in all it would have been possible to conclude that it was so long ago that it didn't happen in it. Unfortunately, however, the consequences we feel through this system are evident, and this has further traumatised Croatia with war and war casualties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104040	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104041	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic, I agree with your assessment of the situation, but I am not going back so far in the past but simply finding that this system as a pension system as prescribed by law here must absolutely have its perspective in economic categories. So if the relationship between the active and the pensioners is progressive, there's no way that what we've written down here is as a model that's being spent in life. We know there's a lot of bankruptcy and a growing number of bankruptcys, all those people in bankruptcy go where they go, go to the employment bureau again on the burden of the state. We see that it's easier to stimulate people to retire than to restructure public systems, strengthen production, and these people go back to the burden of the state, go back to the burden of the budget. Therefore, these are some things that do not give us optimism that tomorrow we will have a strong economic and stable economic basis for the implementation of the pension policy, and beyond that there will probably be a question of both health policy and education policy, so all of these elements of the social state will be compromised because there is simply no one to fill the budget. In short and plain terms, you can't be happy and satisfied in the house if you don't work and if no one does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104042	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104043	Comrade Horvat, you mentioned in your debate the attack of neoliberal capitalism on this particular case pension system. When someone says neoliberal, they immediately give him ideological value, so instead of neoliberal capitalism, I'll say it's brutal, that some liberals wouldn't be offended by it. However, it is not just about the attack on the pension system, the public pension system. We are exposed to daily attacks and to the public education system, the public health system and always the goal behind this is to actually destroy this public goods, public insurance, public care, public pension system and open the market for private capital. We have introduced a second pillar of pension insurance, and if you notice, the Parliament has never held a debate on the effects of the second pension pillar, the condition in the mandatory second pillar of insurance, nor can you find information in one place in the contributions of those second pillar pension funds. So we often deal with this generation solidarity, and that 5% of the funds, now somewhere around 60 billion goes under the radar of all debates by the legislative authority. But it's not just bankruptcy that puts the public pension system at risk. Work without a working relationship, freeing from the payment of contributions to pension insurance, which, like the infection, caught one and the other government back a few years ago. Contributions and payments on minimum wages to be tolerated in an increasing number of cases do not interest anyone at all and we do not say how many billions of kunas we lose on a monthly basis only because of these three aspects. It is a alignment with European directives. Every alignment with European directives means a few hundred million kunas less in the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104044	Thank you very much. Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104045	Thank you. Comrade Lesar, I can sign what you said. Very good analysis, even wider than I gave it. I could have fooled it, I'd have taken it under one denominator, so as long as we don't get the industry back to the level that we had, and as long as the workers don't start taking buses to work, and as long as that production doesn't start being the basic thing in society, not consumerism or trade, megamarkets, etc., we'll have a hole in the financing of the pension system. Of course it will reflect on education, health and everything else it does, I repeat again, the social category of a country. The neoliberal capitalism is obviously going to pass here, and it's already gone somewhere. To remind only trends in developed countries is that they are a little limited by this neoliberal capitalism nowadays and that they are still restoring state control on some basic resources, on public systems, on social policy, on health policy. That's what serious states do. So they didn't leave everything to the wild market for private neoliberal capitalism. It is now dominant in the countries of Latin America. We see what's going on. Cultural countries, or rich countries that have a particular strategy of their development, are slowly removed from this world trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104046	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104047	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, you know it's since '91. Until '96. Almost a third of the Republic of Croatia was occupied and was not under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. It was then called the so-called so-called. The SAO landscape, east, west Slavonia, and I don't know what kind of SAOs are. So what you're saying and what you're looking for on behalf of people, you're saying there are 12,000. So, people looking for pensions in '91, '96. I'm not saying they're not human rights inherited from the former state. But when you look at the situation of who was aggressor to Croatia, who produced the war, who led to this, then I ask you and you are constant, to say the demands and demands of your party and to rebuild, and to return apartments and that, arranged apartments, etc. And all of this is paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And you are also calling on the political will or the decision of the Republic of Serbia as some kind of asset in all of this, in the talks. So how much did the Republic of Serbia help the return of citizens to the Republic of Croatia, as much as it gave for our reconstruction, to restore Serbians to say house in the Republic of Croatia, to demining the mines they set up, Serbia set up. For the people who died in genocide, for 13 children, their parents' compensation for damages. It is immeasurable to understand who died in Slavonski Brod since the attack of the Serbian Chetnik army, which 8,000 civilians died in Croatia right in the Homeland War. So let's watch those fees. There is no Croatia's claim to Serbia. Interesting! And you here are constantly setting up some conditions and nonstop production of new material, so giving the Republic of Croatia which in this situation is and which is exhausting the Republic of Croatia. I don't know how long it'll take. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104048	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104049	Comrade Grubisic, I expected this character of your replica to be and I don't blame anything. So, I'll try to answer the arguments to a few of the things you've warned. I claim that pensions are inalienable law in all international criteria, the inalienable right of the man who earned it. And I was saying this is about the category of Croatian citizens who were until '91. were retired, so the war found them with a pension. And they, through their working lives in that system, have alimonyd their retirement for 40 years, alimony their retirement for old age. And that part, so I'm talking about that part. So someone took that part of their pension. Someone took that money in that period, didn't give it to them, but directed it somewhere else. So that's what I'm talking about. And besides, besides that I'm right probably either partially right or my intention is fine and the fact that the current government said in my program I said that this thing would work out. Thus, there is likely to be some basis as promised. And third thing, you're saying what Serbia is, I wouldn't involve it. I would say an international factor, international organisations have both given Serbia and Bosnia and Croatia significant funds expressed in millions of euros to get rid of, close the way back and all that. The question is whether we took advantage of it and why we as a state did not use those funds in the way that the European, or the world community offered us. The Sarajevo conference had its own budget, it had its own resources. So, did we use that? Well, I think that's the question. If we're not in the government, I don't think I'd answer that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104050	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104051	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Although this proposal amends and complements the Pension Insurance Act has the E code as European, few refer to provisions that are in line with the Council Directive. One of these is that part-time work to obtain certain social security rights is equated with full-time work, so the Pension Insurance Act needs to be more precise on this issue, which means that it defines the way of equalisation and two opportunities for obtaining pension insurance rights. Until now, work with reduced working hours on various grounds such as work after maternity leave, work due to increased child care and care has been leveled in terms of the conditions for the exercise of the right under the Pension Insurance Act with full-time work. Since 1 January 2015, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is no longer performing skills in the first and second stages for the purpose of exercising pension insurance rights. The law on a single body of art requires the establishment of a single body of art which is an integral part of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This single body should be kept up to date on all procedures in which certain rights are exercised, i.e. on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. It is therefore necessary to comply with the Pension Insurance Act with that law. We hope that this unique body of art will also affect the number of disability pensions because in early 2008 and 2009 there were 13 thousand pensioners. In the last three years, and even after the discovery of the Rubalo affair, the average of the disability pension is 3.5 thousand. These amendments to the laws will also bring into line with the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, which will allow family pension rights to be granted to insured family members of persons who have concluded a life partnership with the competent authority as well as family members of persons who have not concluded a partnership and their life union can be leveled with an extramarital community. As of 1 January, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office shall implement the pension separation procedure according to specific regulations to the section laid down under the general rules, i.e. the Pension Insurance Act and the part determined according to specific or more favourable regulations. According to an earlier agreement in the Croatian Parliament, the separation of Croatian defenders' pensions from the Homeland War is delayed until 30 June 2015. Thus, the harmonisation of pensions according to the current value of pensions which, according to the State Statistics Institute data in the first half of this year, will not be coordinated by each of those parts of pensions in a special manner according to Articles 88, 89 and 94. Pension Insurance Act. For this separation process, I also personally considered at the time of the debate to be a better individual approach, especially for each pensioner, than this particular aggregate conversion factor to the types of pension. My debate will focus most on Article 35, which determines the right to retirement for long-term insurance when he turns 60 and 41. This is a significant provision that allowed workers who entered the world early in the year 17 or 18, and in their 60s have a respectable internship, 41 and several years of internships, and can no longer successfully carry out their professions, to be retired without a pension. So far, it has been an early retirement, but it has been estimated that such long-term insurance is sufficient reason to call it an age pension for long-term insurance. What are the effects, we see already in application in 2014. About 5,000 pensioners with an average pension of 3500 kuna were retired, which was about 61% of the average salary with an average internship of 42 years and 10 months and at an average age of 62.5 years. For these users there is also a bonus of 0.15% for each month after 60 years of life as some balance for age pension users who have achieved a bonus after 65 to 70 years, such as university professors, doctors, lawyers. This provision is also an additional motivation for longer stay at work because only 13.57% in Croatia since 31.12.2014. For me, the disputed interpretation of paragraph 2 of Article 35, which prescribes that a worker of 41 and over years of employment if he retires on his 65th birthday, shall be retired in regular retirement under Article 33 and not in accordance with Article 35. This provision has been difficult, although it is very few pensioners, because the attitude of the European and world institutions, the World Bank, the IMF that we listen to and read daily is known, that when we retire they are more important years of life than years of internships because on their side of the view it is only important that you are as old as possible and that you use your pension as little as possible for less years. I can say that I am very pleased with this provision on annual insurance and internship of 41 and more years of internship because we have managed to restore importance to a longer internship and as much as reward such an internship. I am personally sorry that we have not brought such a provision before because often, every day at the HSU club, we receive comments from those who have the same conditions of training and age retired 3, 4 or 5 years ago. And to them, because of retroactiveness, this provision cannot be applied. Unfortunately, we often change laws, and each law has its own beginning and end of application, and this has negative consequences. The HSU Club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104052	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Today, that is, whenever there is any Pension Insurance and Pension Funds Act, there is always a diverse and lively debate. So today it was about how the state of the Peace Fund has been going since the 1990s or the situation with the number of pensioners and the number of employees since 1990. In doing so, they were said to say a slightly accusing statement on the left and right of who is responsible for the condition that is today, which is the ratio of 1.13 employees to 1 pensioner, as is the current situation. Let me also say that in 5 Slavonian counties, so 5 counties that make up the fourth and fifth constituency are currently listed in the list of pensioners there are 7 thousand more pensioners than employees. This means that the trend in Slavonia and Baranja has already come to a higher number of pensioners than the number of employees. What's wrong with that? The increased number of pensioners is not true, because it is about the same as the average in other environments. It's a small number of employees. So Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem is in a situation where as we all know it is, to say simply one gray or black zone of the Republic of Croatia that has already reached that standard and the criterion that the number of pensioners is higher than the number of employees. And not only that, you know well that the average pension in 5 Slavonian counties, so in Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja lower than the average pension in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Well, because we have those agricultural so-called. national pensions of 500 to 700 kuna, which has a good share of people in Slavonia and Baranja who, of course, lower the average pension to the amount that is lower, much lower than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. I must point that out because for Slavonia and Baranja it is very important. When we talk about the state funding or adding 17,5 billion kuna to those 19, how much contribution is made to pension collection, then I have to say that exactly that 17,5 billion kuna is exactly the deficit of the Republic of Croatia's budget. If it wasn't for the Croatian budget, it would be what they say at 0. As much as it's coming, it's all spent. However, those 3 billion who go to health insurance and these 17.5 billion pensions make up the actual deficit. Why does this deficit arise, and why does the state allocate $17.5 billion for retirement? There are two parameters, one number of employees, another number of pensioners. The number of employees grows and contributes to pension. It automatically wastes the country's doping on pension insurance. What does that mean? The only goal is actually to hire as many people as possible. This was also the goal of the Kukuriku coalition three years ago, because only so many pensioners are about standard, let's now know there are a number of deaths and then the number of new ones, but as the minister said 1 million and 200 is some standard figure that is not expected to increase rapidly or change rapidly. There can be thousands more, thousands less, but that's the number. However, the number of employees could increase, and in case it increases to 1 million and 700 thousand people, there are now 1 million and 400 employees about the same way, the results vary in the survey by the State Statistics and Ministry of Labour. So, if we increased to 1 million and 700 thousand employees, we would bring the Peace Fund and pension insurance into one good order, thus also the balance of the state budget, i.e. the deficit would be significantly, significantly reduced. Here are the very simple and easy calculations Mr. Linic also pointed out in the debate over this today. They say 90% of privatisation from 1990 to 2000 was criminal, 90%. That, I did not say, is what State Auditor Šima Krasic said here about this Croatian Parliament speaker when she spoke about the state audit. Did the government of the late Racan Ivica promise to review the audit and that there will be sanctions against those who have been criminally privatized? Yes, in pre-election time, however, in those four years nothing was done "bite a donkey wolf." So it continued after this 8 years of HDZ's government, but it is still today after this government, 3.5 years of Kukuriku coalition. And until we correct it or at least so that those who have criminally privatised the regular part of the money return to the Republic of Croatia, it will not be a good luck to the State of Croatia. I can't say it's called lustration but in a way it should be done. And there's a way to do it. You have examples in other countries of how this, the state that was also socialist until 91st, has moved on to this capitalist system, so call it even though it is neoliberal in our country as Lesar said, so it can and has a way. And we're thinking about some real estate taxes, and I don't even know what all taxes are, and there's a chance that we're going to look at profits a little bit and not say surpluses and everything that's come out of that criminal privatisation, and I'm not going to say, in a way, with a repressive method, it's calculated, and it's fine with a tax liability. This would help you, those who have become rich in this way, or return some of the money to the Croatian state and the Croatian people. And we know that, here Mr. Horvat complained about a portion of the population that lived in the SAO Krajina that was not compensated by pensions from 91st on 96th, although then the Republic of Croatia had no jurisdiction over Krajina so-called. It was supposed to be an independent state, so let the Krajina pay them the pensions they were entitled to, even have the Krajina government in Belgrade, and today there is, so let them make sure they pay off those pensions when they do, when they ask for it. I don't mind, let them be compensated. But I must say, here are the gentlemen from the Croatian Retired Party that also Croatian pensioners who lived in the rest, so those two-thirds of Croatia who were not occupied were also damaged and that, in fact, in some sense, the war that was imposed by Serbia-Montenegro was financed right from pension funds. Later, the pensioner's party agreed with the state and part was returned directly and part in the wars, it is already one system that was implemented in the Republic of Croatia. Although when you're looking at it, not everything that's actually been taken away from the pensioners at the time is completely calm. Are you going to look for something now that I don't know what? Therefore, there are many things that we discussed today in that history of the pension system. What's a carrot in this bill, it's not a carrot, it's a carrot, it's a recognition of a full-time job, it's 40 years or 41 years. That's great, and that's what recognition is to every worker, to anyone who works, and it's good to experience at all, to be at the workplace for 41 years at all, and it's a great success regardless of the number of years. But I'm asking a question, Mr. Deputy, how can a doctor who finishes medicine at age 25 make 40 years of work in his 60s? He can't, he can't, because he's 65 when he's 40. Or not just a doctor, I'm talking about my profession but you have engineers, you have other professions that are college-educated they can't accomplish anything special if he's a slightly weaker student and ends up at 27, 28 he can't possibly be 60 years old and not even 65 years old so full-time. So, this part of me people have a sister who got a job when she was 19, she's 60 now, she's 42 years old, she works as a nurse. She has sisters who are 65 years old, she works in a hospital and has 46 years of work experience because she was able to get a job at 16 years old at that time, so as a nurse, she later laid down for her sister medical staff, and now she's been working for 46 years and more. So I'd like to, and I think we'd all like it if it were a much bigger percentage than 13.57 as much as my colleague Schamper said that there are 40-year-olds, so full-time internships, it would be much better, but that's the situation now that it's 13.57. At first, I intervened with you with a replica of this shortened working time, to obtain certain social rights, from the Social Security Directive, equalized with full-time work. It's actually nothing new. As you explained to me, time will be calculated, so those who work occasionally or temporarily fall also into that category and that will be accounted for in the retirement fund and yes, so that is how and now as far as I know I don't know what's going on. Here, maybe you can explain it to me. So I don't see any reason to, here's what's listed as something new but I'm saying I see it. Perhaps it could have been stated here that it included not only part - time work but temporary and occasional work, which is not part - time. I used to say there was a shortened working hours or how part-time work was shortened or how SRV was spoken briefly for 4 hours a day, was there and even the assessment of disability commissions was a second category of 4 hours a day. The first was a easier job, the second was a part-time job for four hours and the third was a pension. So there were categories on the disability commission that are no longer called that, but it's called a single body of art by the Office of Arts that starts working on January 1st of this year and which so far has accumulated as someone here said over 12, almost 13,000 artificial claims. So that unique body. And I think it's going to be very hard to start detaching that skill ball if it's really true, and that's that for the first two months of this year we have almost 13,000 artificial claims. I know it belongs to everything else, not just a pension, but all the other rights that are exercised through this once-called commission, or a unique body of art, but really, the number of 13,000 is really impressive. Also, the fee for an internship that is over 41 years and is 0.15% monthly is one of the measures that also contributes to social and any other sensitivity to workers who work for so many years. We also know that the prime minister's statement, which was made some 3.4 months ago, that he doesn't believe himself that this solidarity system will welcome him when he retires, he said. This mistrust towards itself and the pension system has come to me as much as no one from the pension system, and the minister himself has not referred to it, or is it true what he is saying, so the prime minister is saying, and then the question of our children's pension, our grandchildren, and here we are, but not to say so, even though I am 63 years already and definitely before retirement. I'm not a quitter, but for retirement, I am. So what did Mr Milanovic say, Croatian Prime Minister? About 4 months ago, he said that pension funds are what they are and that, on the principle of solidarity, he can hardly expect a pension to be paid. That's exactly what he said in the interview with, I think it was Mr. Bago when he was giving the interview. That's what's left undetected in the media, I guess the media is also being obstructed, and then they're passing on what they want and what they don't want to keep quiet. But then I got a little worried and started thinking about what Mr. Prime Minister was saying about pension funds and pension insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104054	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You have to ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104055	We'll ask him. That's why the HDSSB club will be, let me just say, most likely restrained about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104056	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104057	... Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague Grubšić, you were asking a question and you were saying, in fact, you were giving solutions so that this problem could be solved, then you said by increasing employment, but you forgot to say that the adoption of this law actually preceded a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that changed almost 49 articles to adopt the final proposal of this law today after an emergency procedure. On the other hand, an increase in employment may occur by increasing investment, but the government is constantly working on one legal and tax instability and is actually missing this increase in investment in the Republic of Croatia. Both experts and economists said this government is one of the worst in the last 40 years, but it's interesting that it's held in power. At the beginning of this government the ratio was 1:1.23 employees, now it is 1:1.13 employees. 100,000 is less insurance, and 10,000 are more pensioners. You may have forgotten two things in your speech that I expected, which is a demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia that seriously threatens to raise pension costs and threatens the full collapse of the pension system. I'll tell you, from 2001 to 2011 Croatia lost 152 000 people, which is actually equal to the losses in 7 homeland wars. And the other thing, it is the departure of young and highly educated people abroad from the Republic of Croatia. If you look at the end of January of this year without a job, the unemployed in Croatia were 329 751 which is less than 54 625 people compared to last January. The question is, where are these people? Unfortunately, abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104058	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104059	Thank you very much. A fellow Babic, apparently for this government there are too many, there was a film called "overnumber", so there are too many in this country and this government already, and look at some press, look at a little media. What they say, that we will soon get jobs, jobs in Croatia some people from Asia, Africa or countries like to say to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the SEE region. So it was easy to allow Croatia's demographic straw, straw, straw, to now perhaps be on the border of 4 million inhabitants. According to the list, there were 4 million 290. It's hardly possible, I don't have exact data, but to hardly have four million people today, and four million. But when there's some kind of recovery and some sort of sign of getting out of the tunnel, so at the end of the tunnel we're kind of a recession, what's gonna happen? We won't have anyone else to hire because young, educated people left Croatia, and the goal is to bring some others here and that's the problem, a little secret plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104060	Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104061	I would replicate briefly to my colleague since he said he once announced that the SDP had announced a revision of the conversion and nothing after that. Well, it's not like that. The revision of the conversion was and was carried out it was a huge job of our audit office, which had all the applications under any doubt and illegality processed so that a huge number was done. In fact, we received a report on the revisions in the Croatian Parliament and in the final report one of the most tragic items was lost 400,000 jobs with clear indications of illegality, whether in the country's assessment, whether or not in this, it would not have entered. The job was after that by the State's Attorney's office to initiate the proceedings, and we can say that we are disappointed because there is not a sufficient number of irregularities that have been confirmed in the audit. Allow me, it is not a problem of politics, it is not a problem of the Croatian Parliament, it is still a problem of the profession that had to be done. That's why I believe that as far as the conversion of audits is concerned, that's where we've discussed, we've identified irregularities by every company and every name, and it's been the job of simply persecuting bodies to do their part of the job. We can be guilty that in the debates on the State's Attorney's Office reports we did not insist enough on implementing exactly what the citizens of Croatia....
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104062	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104063	I just said that the State Audit, Mrs. Šima Krasic, was watching the transfer, I was not a parliamentary representative at the time, I watched the broadcast on TV, and I couldn't believe my ears that 90% of privatised companies were in a criminal and illegal way. Who needs to be ordered and ordered to conduct a sanction procedure, so the sanction procedure does not interest the citizens. They have no idea it wasn't politics. You say it's DORH's fault, it's DORH's fault, and it's our fault, and it's your fault, so in the government of Ivica Racan you won the election at the time, at the declaration that you would sanction criminal privatisation and everyone was hoping for it and expecting it. And nothing. And that's the day today. You have a DORH that's been under eight years, so during HDZ today you have a DORH and no one's scratching for it because they're afraid. It's about fear, tycoon, who. Well, that's enough for the people. Well, people, they're gonna come to that, and yesterday they asked me if there was going to be an armed conflict? Anything is possible, because if the state doesn't want politics, if they don't want the DORH, then the people will take matters into their own hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104064	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104065	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In your discussion, you spoke about the discharge of pensions at the beginning of the 1990s at the time of aggression, so it is known that the pensioners also helped defend and create our state at the time because those years as Mamic would say, pension funds were as full as a ship. Not only did they help defend our homeland, but by the year '90 they were creating all material goods, building homes and schools, hospitals. But since '93. until '98. the years have suffered certain damages due to illegal pension coordination. Later, in cooperation with both governments, we chose to return this compensation to pensioners from 2006 to 2013. However, as a consequence of that since '99. the years have been badly damaged by new pensioners. For what? Its initial, current pension value is calculated at pension level 31.12.'98. and at that time, a supplement was paid, and that supplement did not enter into the calculation of the initial current value of the pension. Today, 700,000 pensioners have an average of less than 446 kunas, worth 3.7 billion in this year alone. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104066	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104067	Thank you very much. Comrade Schamper, if you don't pay one war of television fees or two then you get a warning, then another reminder with a 17% bill of legal tight interest, and you see you said that debt occurred in the period or in the time period of '93. Until '96. and was paid in 2006 to 2010. So, 10 years. How many billions of kunas do you think, in this agreement with the governments of the Republic of Croatia and the left and right should be paid. It has been paid 10 billion kuna that what you always have the right to legally tightened interest of 10 years. How much money would that be? No, I don't. You've made a nice and neat agreement with gentlemen and fair and arranged for this payment, which is to say ok. But don't be afraid, for any other debt that you or we would be employed or retired by any Hanžekovic would certainly fish 17% of the legal tight interest within a month of non-payment. And as for the new scam, I may not have been directed enough, but if it isn't the hundred kunas Mr. Racan has shared since 2000 to the pensioners a month that didn't enter the retirement base, then you are, in part, clearly and cut off. And maybe there'll be new negotiations with the government when they're better days.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104068	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104069	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you spoke about importing labour from the region, I apologize to the region. It is such a hateful word to me, because I never know what the region refers to, whether it refers to Serbia, Montenegro or perhaps Italy, Slovenia, Austria, Hungary. So, from underdeveloped parts of the region, labour will be imported, and we can also conclude that it can be imported from the third world to the third world, because according to these catastrophic data that we can read, and you mentioned them in your debate, I'm really afraid that we belong to third-world countries for development, and you've touched on the issues of employee and pensioners' relations in the area of Slavonia and Baranja, respectively, on five Slavonian-Baranja counties that data are truly catastrophic. We know there's a pensioner with 0.96 workers. Something is better in Osijek-Baranja County while in these other four it is truly catastrophic. What happened to you? After that unfortunate war and our occupied areas, there was a collapse of large companies, wood industries and everything else. And now how do we finally run our own Slavonia? Young people are leaving. I've been talking to a 30-year-old man, he graduated high school, so when he was 18, he became a working man and finished his education. He was barely able to collect two years of work for up to 30 years. When will he succeed in turning 40 years of his job to earn a pension? Well, never, never. And you know that, together with me, you also advocate that at least through these laws on agricultural land and young people, you allow or allow them to come to the property of state agricultural land so that they are the drivers of development and of our Slavonia and Baranja, and then I hope that the relationship of employees and pensioners will be absolutely different from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104070	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104071	Thank you very much, fellow Czech. You reminded me of one piece of information published by the Ministry of Regional Development. In that table of underdevelopment of municipalities, according to the peak where our island of Vir and some other Rijeka municipality seem to me to Kastav or something on the top of the list of these municipalities is also the municipality of Caglin in 72 places from below. Do you know any fellow Parliamentarians here what the unemployment rate is in the Coughlin municipality? 92.4%. The unemployment rate in Croatia is around 20, between 20% and 25% in Caglin municipality, according to data from the Ministry of Regional, not according to my data, Ministry of Regional Development, 92.4%. There. And now we're talking about Slavonia, the wood industry has been destroyed, also by privatisation. Agriculture is not considered a strategic branch, it is so by the way, along the way some branch where few people are dangling in the field etc., and we will import everything about agriculture and all food products. This put agriculture in a completely different way, so tourism in the gross social product took a much stronger place at a higher level than agriculture we have 7% and tourism is 11%. It has never been in any EU country nor been given today in EU countries, but agriculture and the EU Agriculture Committee bear 40% of the money. What about us? And how do we get ahead? I listened to Ms. Pusic when she spoke about Croatia's prospects four years ago and said she needed 6.5 thousand foreign workers in Croatia already at that point four years ago. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104072	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104073	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, if I'd known that you'd be talking a little bit about agriculture, I might have answered that subject, but since you said that, I was encouraged by the replica of where you were talking about the unique body of art. And I think it really deserves more attention. That body of art that was announced as an all-powerful body even though the waist was a little restrained on that issue because they said that only 6%, 7% can be used in that part. That's familiar. But this number of 13,000 is really worrying. And now we really have to ask who's gonna take it off? Now, we were changing that list of bodily damages a short time ago, it was that regulation that prescribed that methodology, and now this list was adopted. All right. Let him help, I agree, and let him speed it up. But neither has the Law on Croatian defenders been amended, which also regulates certain things. And third thing, I'll say it's doing another damage, and you know which one? So now we're talking down on kidney day we're talking about doctors. And now imagine how many people are in pain, how many times... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now doctors, of course, have that rate of 3.5% that they can't exceed. If he's overstepping, then he's being punished, you understand? That's one story complicated, I'd say, and that requires haste in this sense that these 13,000 be solved as soon as possible or at... or any other way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the things that really require the urgency and speed of solving immediately regarding this unique body of art. Here, that's the point of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104074	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104075	I don't know about 3.5% of what you're talking about. Is he at the sick rate? Well, it used to be a slightly higher rate of sick leave, but it was that rotten country, right? So, I've been working in labor medicine, so I know how it is. But when it was a textile industry, it was even bigger because there are things that aren't very unhealthy and sometimes 3,000 workers you have things that you have to give to be sick if there's someone... Or I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can talk about it professionally. But when it comes to the unique body of art, it was thought that this would achieve unique criteria, I guess that was the goal of creation. I don't know about the different criteria in Dubrovnik and somewhere in Vinkovci or Varazdin, so it's a unique criterion. But we now have a case-law where they say there should be unique court criteria throughout Croatia, so you have that Equality Centre that was established. So perhaps there was something that could be done in the committees to assess physical damage or disability. It's hard to say but here's the stuff piled up, a 3.5% rate hangs you in the crying because it's determined by the doctor, but how it's going to get rid of it, it's going to detach, I don't know, you said to unplug but we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104076	Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, this law is full of actually vagueness and hidden things that can hardly be explained. It is said in this law that the disabled person's disability pension due to his professional inability to work and the disabled person's disability pension due to partial loss of work ability if he makes a disability pension due to a complete loss of employment capacity, a new retirement pension is determined on the basis of the pension standing and the value points achieved up to the date of obtaining the right to a disability pension due to a complete loss of employment right to an age or early retirement pension. Since age and early retirement beneficiaries who are required to be insured in pension insurance after the right to pension are prescribed that new pensions can only be determined if they have achieved at least one year of retirement training after the right has been acquired. In obtaining the right to a new pension, all users should be equalised. I wish this passage listed on page 4 could be clearly explained what the poet meant? Who's all this going to apply to? In the follow-up, we have that the provision of Article 126. The Pension Insurance Act provides for the obligation to carry out a check-up within 3 years whose purpose is to verify the health and working ability of the insurance undertaking. He is subject to all disabled pensioners and compensation for physical damage. All findings and opinions of an authorised expert and senior expert on the basis of which the right is acquired shall be subject to the statutory audit carried out by the Ministry of Pensions. For three years, all the users of the disability pension or the compensation for physical damage can be audited by the body of the skill list, which is neither functional nor usable, by all the experts who analyzed it, checked it and tested it and made it clear, regardless of all this, obscenity and most of it in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the Single Body of Art. Until, on the other hand, the derrogation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences in which he remains and gives the conduct of obtaining disability as well as damage to the organism has not been changed. And you can't derivating the Law on Pension Insurance the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. I repeat a hundred times, thousands of lawsuits, thousands of complaints, thousands of administrative proceedings and court proceedings will be brought back to date in the next period. And what's most intriguing is that the provisions of Article 127. The Pension Insurance Act is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe in detail the way and procedure of medical skills in pension insurance. Meanwhile, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been passed, etc. And what it is saying is that the government has made it possible for all categories for which the skills will be performed and those rights will be from the field of social care, maternity and parental support, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas in which certain rights are exercised based on skills, i.e. on the findings and opinions of the body of art, the single body of art, as well as the unique lists of damages to the organism which will be detailed and regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation. Imagine what will happen to all of these categories in one artificial body, one body that will be for all of those categories, and three years is the deadline for all of them to report and to bring solutions. I mean, that's to make your mind stop, and since the Croatian military disabled, the parents of the dead and everyone else are using the rights of a special law that is lex specialis and this law should not and should not apply to them. You're still going on with the way it's wrong. In the same way as you did not respect the conclusions of the War Veterans Committee in which all defenders are present, war veterans are on the Defence Committee headed by the President of the Croatian Parliament, who you have also played a unanimous decision to propose a delay in the application of the Pension Insurance Act by 6 months, until the commission formed by the MPs and the defence population has actually made an insight into these principled solutions which are already coming in order to find out what will happen in the future after these 6 months Croatian defenders, the disabled population, the victims of the Homeland War, actually get out of this law that you propose on pension insurance and that delegates the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which so far has not been amended in any article so far so that they can use this Pension Insurance Act. So, the proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament on the same committee was that, as a lawyer and expert, I agree that all rights belonging to Croatian defenders will be drawn up in a single Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, that they also give rise to the rights of the Commission, that they come from it, that they also come from solutions on the height of pensions, as well as the use of all other rights of spas, aids, treatment and everything else. The Commission has so far not been invited by the ministry once, although the committee has clearly defined the names that make up the commission. Neither the Pension Insurance Office nor its director dared to call for joint review of the solutions to be addressed after 1 October. So it happens again that there is no general concern or desire to really show what will happen in the future with Croatian defenders, what their status will be, what their income will be. Given that they are now, it is evident that the revision, that in three years there will be harmonisations, that the harmonisations will be envisaged which will be that the part that is under the general rules can be aligned with growth, and that part which is specific to it will depend on GDP growth, will surely be either reduced or increased. for one part, the value point is made so that it is smaller than it was in the previous time and certainly if compliance occurs after 1 June, as foreseen, when this law which has been suspended in these articles starts only, although it has not been fully delayed as it has been concluded and delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as to the Ministry, and it is promised that it will be done safely to reduce the receipts of Croatian defenders. And that's what shouldn't have happened, it shouldn't have happened that these strangers who want to be done with this law clearly speak the direction they're going and in order to actually harm the Croatian defenders and not to remain these rights that they've had so far. I would just like to point out that these descriptive images, as mentioned earlier and said that it is an extremely sensitive category of pensioners who have achieved their pension under specific circumstances, are therefore starting from the current events and taking into account the issue discussed at the 23rd session of the Croatian War Veterans Committee, etc. I mean imagine this formulation, an extremely sensitive category of pensioners in specific circumstances, so starting with the current situation, something is being brought or something is being accepted to delay and then what is the main goal is being made, which is actually that this population is a little bit equated with everyone else that the unique body of art wants to do what it is intended to do and that the unique list of damage to the organism makes it clear that you will no longer have the rights that you have so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104078	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 3:00 replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104079	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. First, we will hear replicas of the presentation of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Dear Gordana Sobol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djakić, I would say this is how you actually did your debate so that you actually made an impression I would say a very deliberate attempt to point out that you do not really understand the problem these amendments to the Pension Insurance Act are talking about, that is, what they really refer to. All the amendments and additions that are being discussed here today under these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act relate to harmonisation, as with European directives and to the laws that we have adopted since the adoption of this law after the debate in this assembly. So there is also harmonisation with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Harmonization with the Law on the Single Body of Art, the Law on Life Partnership, the Law on Heritage, the Law on Pension Funds and, in part, the Law on the Rights of Defendants, that is, the Law on the Law on the Rights of the Government, which has been adopted and which respects the agreement and conclusion that you have reached together with the defenders, representatives of defenders and protesters in Savska on the Committee on War Veterans, which is the part of the Pension Insurance Act that does not apply to the defence population until the end of the 6th month to the part that talks on defence pensions. In the meantime, if I am not mistaken and removed from the public debate, one draft law on the rights of defenders is agreed that the commission, working group, etc. to work on preparing a new law. About what this new law will look like, what it will all cover, and discuss what we are going to discuss here at the plenary session. Afterwards, we may need some laws that we now have to comply with with this new Law on Defence Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104081	Thank you. The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So my doubts are clearly explained in the text of these explanations of the law, especially on page 5 where I have clearly read to you the protection of war and civilian victims along with all these categories that you have stated. Next, if it were true that this law really did not precede something that would negatively affect Croatian defenders, a public debate with the interested public would be held, it would not be in such an emergency procedure that certainly expresses doubt that what I was talking about would not happen. Each of these parts will be aligned according to the corresponding current value of the pension. That these solutions were not sent to active military persons, but also to disabled persons throughout Croatia, regardless of what happened unanimously what was going on, but there was a unanimous conclusion of the committee and there was a playful conclusion of the committee, since it was said strictly that the whole law was delayed for 6 months. You've only delayed two articles and that's the problem. ... /The noise in the hall./... The whole law that, if you'd read the conclusion, you'd see that the whole law is delayed, that the conclusion is proposed to postpone the law for 6 months. This is the conclusion of the War Veterans Committee, which has been adopted unanimously and has been played by someone, and therefore there is a reasonable doubt that all these articles, which speak ambiguously of what pensions will be justified. Justified doubt exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104083	Second replica Tomislav Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104084	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with my colleague Djakic when you spoke about the need to separate Croatian defenders' pensions from the part that was acquired under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and the part that was based on the pension internship or the Pension Insurance Act and that the separation of pensions was not done because of the transparency, because it was clear so far and in HZMO they had always that information about the total amount of pensions relating to Croatian defenders' pensions. And nothing has been disputed here, but this separation has been made for a simple reason, so this time Croatian defenders will be cut off or saved for the state budget because the harmonisation of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, so the part relating to the years of work experience will not be until GDP growth is more than 2% and the deficit of the state budget is less than 3%. So in this case, the defenders seem to wait quite a while for the pension adjustment to take place, the part relating to the Pension Insurance Act. So there is no need to hide things,... it is clear and loud to say why changes are being made rather than to say that it is done because of transparency it is simply not true and it is not the essence of this change but is the essence of saving 100ths, 200ths, 300ths, I do not know how many million kunas and again on the coat of arms of Croatian defenders which, of course, no one in this population can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104085	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it is true that no real reason or separation of pensions relates to compliance with European norms and laws. The fact is that there is a rabbit in that bush, that the separation of pensions is wanted by those who have had a certain internship to define how much they will have under that internship, and how much they will according to special regulations. But I stress we are passing a law that is contrary to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. As solutions are already being written where the reduced pensions by 0.35% of what should be in previous solutions, as solutions are being written that do not account for the internship that was earned because it went into some pension of six,... with severance, no severance of persons of service, disabled persons from the Croatian Army and such categories clearly wish to manipulate again and derrogate the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and the conclusions which he himself witnessed and proposed by the President of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A conclusion under one adopted by the Committee is proposed to postpone the application of the Pension Insurance Act by six months. It's loud and clear. Here's the conclusion that was originally signed, unanimously made. A task force has been formed to draft a new law, and that is a fact and it is already near its end. However, both the working group and parliamentary representatives and the defence population were formed to control the calculations of these separate solutions whether they would be at the expense of Croatian defenders or not. Until today, three months have passed no one called them, no one invited them to the Ministry or the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to show them a clear picture of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104087	The last replica, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic, you were talking about a unique body of art, so I wanted to refer a little bit to it. You've put that body structure under question. However, we know how this has been done in recent years that experts in the field departments have done this job, and we may all know the situation of retirement and the number of disability pensions, the number of users. According to the Pension Insurance Act today, we have about 230 thousand persons with disabilities, and according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, we still have 58. So we have a total of 287000 people with disability pensions, and that's pretty much every fourth pensioner is a beneficiary of a disability pension and we're European records. We remember that it was even in the old country, that there were doctors who offered and the tariff was known to cost 5,000 marks. We remember until recently we had an affair with Dr. Rubale. And we think that such a unique body of art that will have uniform criteria would have to reduce that number so that there would be no more so-called. fake pensioners. Because at the beginning of the crisis it was a significant share of those because in 2008, 13000 people went into invalid retirement and it was really one, one European summit to reduce this in the last three, four years to some 3,4,000 people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104089	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, yes, I would agree with you. As I said in the debate, for all categories of disability pensions, it may even be a unique body of art as well as a unique list of damage to the organism. However, Croatian wartime disabled, victims of the Homeland War are a special category in the Republic of Croatia, are treated by all MPs as we could hear in our discussions as the basis of the creation of a Croatian state with special injuries and injuries, explosive wounds that can by no means be identified with wounds obtained in civilians or damage to the body,... Civilianism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we also proposed to the amendments that this category should remain as Mr Leco, the President of the Croatian Parliament, suggested that all rights on Croatian defenders come from one law, that all solutions come from one Ministry on the rights of Croatian defenders and that the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders should not be broken down into a series of ministries, offices to damage their category. So even now I agree with you, maybe you can. Professional teams have found that a single body of art can only be applied to 7% of the population in full. And that's not good. There will be no good solutions, there will be failures, lawsuits, complaints and all those problems that have been in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104091	Now we will hear the final words of the respected Bozidar Štublje, deputy minister of labour and pension system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I thank you for the debate that you have contributed to clarifying certain things in this law, and I hope that there will be opportunities in application and actually verifying everything that is complex here. But I feel the need to look back on a few of the things mentioned here. First, we heard that the pension system is not stable, that it threatens the risk of inability to pay off pensions, etc. It's just not true. The peace system is stable, pensions are paid regularly, and they will be paid regularly and we work every day, we insist that the system remain stable for a long time. We've made calculations by the age of 60, and we claim that it can exist. Of course, pensions and contributions for them may be higher in cases of increases in the number of employees and their salaries and I agree with you there. The second part I have to look back on is that pensions are the cost. There can be no cost of the right resulting from the work of paying for the contribution. It can't be a expense to anyone because these people have done their job, they've created new values and made payments to the pension system. And we have to remember that it's the Pension Insurance Office, so these are the funds that were invested in that office. More words were related to the Medical Engineering Office. I would only mention, therefore, the Institute for Medical Skills and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, he performs the jobs of professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, in the field of social care, maternity and parental rights, the needs of education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and protection of war and civilian victims of war. Of course, it was necessary to adopt a regulation on methods of art. I'm sorry that we've heard so much in this High House that it's not right for defenders, etc. But I must point out that this regulation has two lists. One list is the artisan of the disabled victims of the Homeland War in view of the damage caused by war. That's one list. The second list is for all the other art. And I can't accept that it's an attack on the victims of the Homeland War, that it's an attack on the defenders. Furthermore, there were a lot of words about the number of items found in the office. I've listed everything, so all the skills that this office is performing, and I have to stress that so many requests have been taken over by all the bodies that have worked so far and, of course, we have to do this office since January 1st of this year before we give a certain grade to give some time. I think all bodies have a hundred days, so let's let that office go for a hundred days, and then let's evaluate their work and evaluate whether or not we've made some progress, which is more because we want to level the criteria, to evaluate all disability in these groups within the Republic, not to give the area office of one county or not I don't know the other body of warlocks in my own way. As for the War Veterans Committee, the committee held a session, so the Veterans Committee held its session on January 23rd. And it's an agreed proposal holder to be a committee. I must stress that I am now sorry that the ministries are actually expected to launch an initiative to make. It is the committee that called on the bodies, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to appoint its representatives to work on that committee and to prepare proposals that will then be considered and brought into this House. That's it. Thank you again for contributing to the debate and I hope you will pass a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104093	Thank you. We move on to replicas, first respected Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104094	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Deputy Minister, I agree with you when you said that pensions are not an expense. I am then convinced that concerning the amendment that I have submitted and it is 10 300 pensioners who have retired before 1.01.2014 and have completed 60 years of life and over 41 years of training but are then retired and reduced pensions that you will equalise those pensioners who went into retirement after 1.01.2014 because they do not have that reduction. These pensioners, when they worked, have made a huge contribution to their contribution to the Peace Fund of Generation Solidarity and have absolutely the right to be in the same position as the pensioners who went into retirement in 1.01.2014 and to equalise their rights because they were truly unjustly damaged because they had retired early.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104095	The replica corresponds to Deputy Bozidar Stubelj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104096	Your Honor, yes, you're right about the payment, etc., but I think we're all right when we talk about a certain limit and retroactive application. If we were to go that way, we'd probably have to go back to those more favourable conditions that ruled before '89. the years when it was worth the old law. So it's impossible to go backwards. There's always a line where he has to start something new. That's the way it is in this case. I agree with you that there are such cases, we are familiar with them, we receive such objections but unfortunately we cannot retroactively go into service.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104097	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, what you mentioned today is that the rule on art methodologies with two lists, one for war victims, and the other for everyone else, I could compare it to that movie from '81. James Bond's "For Your Eyes Only." Because no one's seen or heard it. I don't think we really need to lie, let's wake up people. If it were visible, that it was analysed I would say every honor, okay, bravo, I'm a normal man who wants to admit both the good and the bad, but worried about applying the unique body of art that I've expressed before when the task force checked the possibilities and you yourself saw that it was impossible, and so if you've made that list every honor. I admit it, but I didn't see her. I've never seen a methodology show that there are two lists, if it's an honor. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I am not the chairman of the board, nor am I the War Veterans Committee to direct the working group that was founded. a commission to analyse new pension solutions. It includes representatives, two representatives from the Assembly Committee, representatives of the defence population and yours, someone has to invite them to the ministry or the office and come and show them how the list is for a hundred percent calculation after the separation, and how is for seventy percent, how is for eighty percent? And when they see it, they conclude, and when they compare it to this law and say good-bye, okay, nothing's gonna happen. I'm gonna respect it, and then I'm gonna believe them and you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104099	Answer to the replica of Deputy Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104100	Your Honor, here's what I think we've come close to our views on this. First I must tell you that the regulation has been published, so the regulation has been passed by the Government, it has been published and is publicly available to all, can be looked at and seen that there are specific diseases, all damages caused by war. As far as the board is concerned, here I am saying that the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System has proposed its candidates, but to whom will you deliver this memo, who will chair it? So it was the board that initiated the whole part and we expect it to call, initiate, and then all the services will contribute. As far as the calculation of this separation is concerned, it's done. It is clearly shown by other specific regulations showing the way it is calculated. I assure you, the pension is not reduced, the lip is equal, and we have seen it in military personnel, in the police, in the seamen, in all other professions there are 100 and something that deals, or that goes into retirement according to special regulations. And there's a clear view of what he's doing in the general section, what he's doing in the special section. And it's visible, so that calculation we have and everyone can always get it for their name and name. Because I'm saying, this job has been done, all pensioners under a special regulation have been taken out, except for stopping the separation procedure for the defenders until we can sort this out with the board, the conclusion of the committee that said that the part is still being considered and that it should then be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104101	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Minister and Associates, all who participated in the debate. I'm closing this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104102	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 804. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Labour and the Retirement System of the Honorable Bozidar Stubelj to be made aware of the amendment of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored MPs and respected MPs. Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment The Pension Insurance Act does not prescribe translation of previously recognised rights, nor does translation of early retirement pensions into retirement pensions. [[Adversity President: Explanation.]] The checked age pensions recognised under the former Pension Insurance Act remain a permanent reduction as well as under the applicable Pension Insurance Act. The early retirement pension due to long-term insurance, i.e. the retirement pension for long-term insurance companies, is the new Institute on the Pension Insurance Act and is foreseen for long-term pension workers who have 41 years of retirement and 60 years of life as a form of evaluation of long-term work and payment of contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104104	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104105	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Minister, I am truly disappointed and saddened by not accepting this amendment. You do not want to make and correct the injustice that has been done to pensioners who have had long-term deposits in the first pension column, and their pensions have been reduced from the title because they have gone into early retirement. There are pensioners who have made a full retirement pension, who have had fewer pensions, and who have not been reduced in pensions. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104106	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Zlatka Tušak, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Honorable Representative Zlatka Tušak. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 18 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104107	We move to the next point is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Tropical Tree Agreement 2006, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.800. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected Djurdzica Sumrak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104108	Dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104109	Mrs. twilight, just one moment please. Dear MPs and representatives are honored to welcome the delegation of the Korean-Croatian Interparliamentary Friendship Group to the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, who is staying on a working visit to the Republic of Korea, we welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please continue your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104110	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a Law to confirm an international agreement on tropical wood from 2006 with a final draft of the law. Honestly, when we got this bill of law, I thought to myself, "God, 2006," and so did the tropical tree. But a little while while I got into the problem of all this, I realized that it was really good that we got this bill because we are, of course, an equal member of the EU, and we have something to do with it, but we simply want to confirm this international agreement on tropical wood. But before I start talking about tropical wood, in general, and about tropical forests somehow I feel a responsibility and I think that today we all know the importance of forests that are not only the lungs of a country, the lungs of a nation that have both clean and drinking water in our Croatia, which is why in 2030, we will have some estimates, a country with the cleanest air. Recently in the Parliament, we had a celebration at a thematic session of 250 years of organised forestry, and it was really proud and nice to listen to the exhibitions, the presentations and the produced and colleagues and fellow forest engineers and the dean of the Forest College. 78% of forests are state-owned and 22% of forests are privately owned. The noise of the Republic of Croatia can be divided into 42% of the forests are land and 2% are wastelanders. In total, there are 47% of forests and plus when you take an area that includes agriculture and you have 80%. What is most important for our forests to be maintained on, so it is a means of perseverance that in the last 100 years the surfaces of our forests have not fallen, nor have the wood stock fallen. The important feature of our forests is also nature, we have 95% of natural forests and 102 forest communities. Another important feature is the quality, the well-known Croatian, Slavonian forest, and there are beech and tree trees in Lica and Gorski Kotar. There are great potentials of our forests, we can really thank the profession which has been carefully addressed to our forests and in 2002 we received a FSC certificate so that more than 2 million hectares in creation have a certificate of sustainable management that is recognised throughout the world. And what I would like to say is that in 2011, the World Forest Day was also declared on the initiative of Croatia. And now some colleagues and colleagues about tropical forests. Here, I don't know my colleague Grubisic likes these little pies like that, let's say while you enjoy doughnuts, do you even think about how many tropical trees have to come out in the woods and all for planting palm palms made of palm oil and palm oil as we know it is used in frits and there are delicious doughnuts. This may be a little funny, I guess, but we can go one step further, what's most worrying about tropical or rain forests is that, and I'd like to say primarily where they spread, they spread in tropical areas of South and Central America, Africa, South Asia and Australia on both sides of the equator, and the exception is the Andes areas in South America and the monsoon area of East Africa. It was estimated that in 1950, for example. tropical rain forests covered some 18 million square miles [18 million sq km]. So somewhere around 14% of the earth's surface. In 1980, 50% of these forests were destroyed by human activity. And the process of destruction continues and still continues today. According to some studies, the area of rain forests the size of a football field disappears every second and more than 50 plant and animal species die out every day. The destruction of such large areas of tropical rain forests results in serious environmental problems, the loss of natural habitats for numerous plant and animal species leading to their extinction. Scientists estimate that 137 plant and animal forests disappear daily. By deforestation and burning of forests into the atmosphere, carbon in the form of CO2 is released, which affects global warming and contributes to the greenhouse effect. And now, if this trend continues scientists say that in 2030, tropical forests could completely die out as well as a large number of plant and animal species. This information has in reality moved me to tell you first of all about our forests in Croatia and how they are well preserved and how they still need to be kept very well. But the problem with these tropical forests is, in reality, that they're cramping because of furniture, which is shrinking for profit, like wood concessions in the Amazon, and they're sold for less than $1 per hectare, the other day was just one show about it. And the companies that knock down trees sell it for a few thousand dollars a hectare. As far as agriculture is concerned, and now here we can actually count as regards Brazil and other areas, which is that the forests are collapsing and the palm trees are planted, meaning palm oil palm trees or in Brazil agricultural land. Now, there wouldn't be any problem if all of this was done in a sustainable way together. Whether it's too late for scientists to think twice about it, they think that if they still started to master tropical forests in a way, here I can say, in a way that is done in Croatia so that one big part could still be saved. We have before us this law and we will adopt it, so HDZ will be for, there is no reason not to because a total of 67 countries and Member States and the European Union are in reality for this agreement. The Agreement is an international contract which was shared in the competence of the European Union and is partly within the competence of the Member States. The Republic of Croatia, of course, is a member of the European Union and has not been a party to the agreement so far, nor has it had the right to participate in discussions and decisions. This law confirms the agreement, and in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the agreement is inherited in the 1994 International Tropical Tree Agreement. I've been asking around the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I've received some information about imports in the reality of this tropical building and what's interesting about us and importing tropical buildings and about making parquets, furniture, chairs, some different objects, but also on the other hand one part of these items and we're exporting them. Well, here I won't be long, there's still time, we'll support it, and I really think we should all be worried about the future because if our Croatian lungs are in Croatia, then the Amazon forests and the rain forests of the lungs are on the globe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104111	We have three replicas of the tropical forest. First Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I was hoping that the Prime Minister would actually say something because I would primarily refer that question to her. Since that's not the case, I'm going to ask a number of rhetorical types to my colleague twilight. So I have to admit that it's absolutely unclear why we have an emergency procedure today in 2015, as an emergency procedure to confirm the International Agreement that was made in 2006, so 9 years after that agreement, we need to discuss it urgently. In a situation where the economy is falling apart, in which the tails are in front of the soup kitchens, in a situation where tens of thousands of young people leave Croatia, we have chosen, or the government has proposed, and of course most have voted to discuss and adopt an international 9-year-old agreement. I would be very interested in what is the reason for the urgency of the procedure, especially when we look at that in the last three years between almost 3/4 laws and documents, in general documents, we have adopted an emergency procedure. This is probably the highlight of bizarreness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104113	I doubt your colleague twilight will be able to answer your question about the urgency of the procedure, but I'm giving her my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104114	And look, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, perhaps I could answer the urgency of the procedure, but I thank you, academic Rainer, for this replica of yours. I thank you because at first I really did, and that's what I said about the tropical tree, so all that you said is much more urgent to solve. We cannot expect this government to understand other urgency and resolution, so I think we can actually vote for this because the Council adopted the Strategic Action Plan of the organisation covering the period 2013 to 2018 and covers the initial activities of the organisation in accordance with the International Tropical Tree Agreement. Well, since we are a member of the European Union then, as an equal member in reality, we will participate in the debates, and I would also like much more urgent things to come and be urgent, but to be resolved urgently. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104115	We will now hear the replica of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104116	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, your concern for our country's lungs is touching, as well as for the lungs of the entire world, and these are forests, primarily tropical in the Amazon River River, etc. I didn't even know donuts were roasted on palm oil. Otherwise, there's no damage to my doughnuts because we always bake pork in Slavonia. Hence, there is no damage to any wood, tropical or tropical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104117	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I'm only doing it because you were saying that I wasn't exactly warning you that you were bothering me, so I called you because of the donut. By the way, these donuts tend to be that way in America. We just don't spend so much of that palm oil because we're poor. And well you've noticed it all, so we can't even buy it, and pork fat is more useful if we go to the doughnuts. But as for human health concerns and everything else, I think that we are all concerned here if not for our own now, but then it is the health of the future of our young people whom we want to leave still to be able to breathe, that we can drink water, that we are fortunate in Croatia and drink clean tap water, and we never use it in tourism. Because when you come somewhere outside Croatia very rarely drink tap water in a hotel than buy bottles, and with us every tourist in his room can still drink water, and why, precisely because of this way, care about the forest in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104119	Third and last replica, respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104120	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade twilight, here I will briefly report to this replica just to support your debate and the way you presented it, it seemed to us to be such a half-joke tone. And sometimes while we were listening, it seemed to us that you didn't exactly stick to the theme in question. I don't think so. In fact, it's a good thing you used this debate to remember our vast national wealth as well. These are our woods. In the context of tropical forests where the international organisation has decided to continue to protect the exploitation of these trees through this agreement, and in this context, we should also think about our wealth, especially where this limit is when, because of industrial development, we are destroying perhaps excessively what is long-lasting of invaluable importance. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104121	The replica corresponds to Gyurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues that, perhaps I am a little bit of that in a different way, began to lead the debate, but indeed you noticed it well. It's serious. And as for our Croatian forests, we must be very proud, because we have introduced a great wealth of forests into the EU, we have introduced about 260 indigenous wood species, we have introduced 95% of the forests that are of natural origin. About a million acres of forest is on the cross, and these forests are still very important. It's the forest-economic plans. It's a big interest. But what would satisfy me is that this mandate of the government also passed a new Law on the Forest, and that it also passed another framework legally, and this legal framework was meant to apply to the wood industry. Because unfortunately, we cut the most, we cut the forest, and we export the tree, and we enter the final products, so that legal framework should have been that way. But HDZ is a little bit more, so we also have such a law and a legal framework that will especially encourage the finalisation of forest wood by, for example, making toothpicks, not exporting wood, and then importing toothpicks into Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104123	A toothpick on a tropical tree, HDSSB Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104124	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, it's good to see you again in the afternoon. I just learned a lesson and a lesson about the kind of tropical trees that my colleague dummies didn't say in her first presentation, so here we know what a tropical tree is. We're talking about tropical trees, we don't even know what kind of tropical trees they are, starting with the words of Mr. Mlakar paulonia, and then baobab, bamboo, ebanovine, cedar, teak, sequencing, and I don't know what kind of wood is on this. Eucalyptus, said Mr. Mandic. Thank you very much for your help. Now, we confirm the law and international agreement, the 2006 International Tropical Tree Agreement, by emergency procedure, so that all these types of trees don't disappear. And while we remember 2006 that this should be confirmed by 2015. For 9 years, the Amazon forest in the Amazon River river has been infested, although Brazil as the country that has the largest surface area of the river, the Amazon River is also a signator of this same agreement. As we can see from the list of countries that, even as many as Brazil has the most representatives in the Council, 157 out of 1,000, the Council 1000. And after that, looking at this table that talks about Latin America and the Caribbean. So Indonesia has 236 and Malaysia 105 representatives. Indeed countries that have large areas of tropical forests. I went to Bali and I didn't eat any palm oil doughnuts. I was there and I didn't buy any souvenirs from the trees, so I kept an eye on Mrs. Sumrak's recommendation and everyone else so I wouldn't spend tropical forests to help us breathe better in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the content of this legislative proposal is concerned, which Croatia also agrees to sign with these 27 EU member states, although the EU signes and prescribes things. I don't mean to make fun of it, I was in Parliament when the law on improving working conditions in Bangladesh was passed. For example, the European Parliament votes to improve the working conditions of Bangladeshi workers Well, Bangladesh is in the tropical area, too, Mr. Stazic. [[Let's go to the tropical tree.]] So that's one country that has huge forest areas and a hundred million inhabitants in the tropical area. Therefore, this agreement states that Croatia will have no financial damage or effects on the adoption of this law, although the chapters and objectives of this legislative proposal indicate that there is an International Tropical Tree Organisation based in Yokohama, Japan. Furthermore, there is a council too. There are also conferences, consumer and tropical tree producers are being held. So they make up one whole of those 1,000 members in the organization itself. Therefore, if meetings exist once a year, the Council may meet at the request of the consumer or at the request of the manufacturer. Now look how well I speak of tropical forests. On page 19, I recorded this, there's even an account and a fund in which states signatories pay certain funds and this is actually one donor agreement, so I wonder if it's one donor agreement that the Republic of Croatia agrees to be a member, and it says no means to implement this law, is that right? The deputy may be able to tell us that, answer it, or we may not have predicted the funds for this year, but when we ratify, when the Croatian Parliament ratifys this agreement, then perhaps in the year 2016 we will also have a part that we will have to set aside for this agreement. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104125	Thank you. The replica was answered by the Đurjica Sumrak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Grubisic, so they wouldn't really say that I'm just declaring myself concerned, when you mentioned Bali, you said that you didn't buy anything or bake on palm oil, so I'm curious about what your position is in the paper reality and whether you're spending and using recycled paper or whether it's all the same to you? And as for the fact that we are the signatories of this agreement, or the EU, on improving the work in Bangladesh, yes, I would sign the same. And let's say when you go shopping, it became very important when you look at where it was done, so when you remember all these real documentary shows where these people work, what they pay for it, and then it comes to us, too, on our market, we buy it. Well, apart from the fact that we should be concerned about improving their working conditions, we should care that we buy our Croatian products.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104127	We will all now be able to hear the information about whether a colleague of Grubisic is using recycled or unrecycled paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104128	Well, believe me, I don't even see what kind of paper I'm using, so no paper says whether it's recycled or not. I don't know. ... Ask the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government what kind of paper they use, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As for Bangladesh and EU decisions, any decision to improve the working conditions in Bangladesh costs the EU. So it's not just a vote for something to vote on Bangladesh, it's what it's supposed to do for money, is it? And Croatia is also an EU member and will be participating in such things in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104129	On behalf of the HNS club on this international agreement will be spoken of by the respected Marijan Skuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104130	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister. So here's when we talk about the Law on Confirmation of the 2006 International Tropical Tree Agreement with the final draft of the law, it's a little bit of a problem for me now because here I have to watch what I'm saying, because I know or not I'm the only one who's the only agent who's still got a profession like the Wooden College - Wood Technology. But here in that part, though, I have to say, in addition to the indications concerning the assessment of the situation and the goal that this law seeks to achieve, I would still do a little supplementing all previous colleagues in a way that we can see and why we have to protect tropical forests and tropical trees in the first place. First of all, yes, it is primarily the resource of tropical countries, and of course when we see in which area it is spread that we have to make sure that these are countries that are primarily poorer, or less economically developed, but the resource is also large. So just once again, a little bit of accurate data is that tropical forests and tropical trees are what includes the space of Asia and the Pacific, Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean. of Equator 23.5 degrees north and south latitude. And that part of the varieties includes logs, sawdust, sheets of veneer and plywood. And why do we really need to implement this part of the agreement and the activities? Because I would also point out once again that the main and most important reason why tropical forests should be preserved is that, above all, it is the basis for the preservation of life on earth because they absorb carbon dioxide and create oxygen that we breathe but also regulate the temperature and produce important nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus and protect and water that contributes to clean water. When we talk about this law and above all the goals it provides, which is to welcome good governance and strengthen sustainable forest management, increase the contribution of tropical forests to national and local economies, improve conservation... the use of biodiversity,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , improving the quality and availability of information and the development of human resources in the implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we can see that together it is united not only as an ecology but it is also an important economic segment. And we also know that it's very difficult to bring the economy into line. Because we all want in some way pure nature, the environment, and for our economy to be developed, and that is very difficult to achieve. So this agreement, such legal provisions as are and with cooperation and Croatia, when it joins this organization, then what our experiences are also said, and above all, developing such potential as forestry and which Croatia has, can be used in the exchange above all, by means of our students, also science and, of course, the economy. And our economy is also related to exports, as well as the import of wood from that area. Here, with that goal, the message from the HNS club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104131	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, the esteemed Mirel Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104132	My dear colleague, I think it is not true that it is very difficult to bring environmental and economic protection into line, even as many of the experiences of today's developed countries show precisely the realisation of sustainable development projects, so those who have an incorporated component of environmental protection are now raising the economy and GDP growth. Even more so, some experts say that such projects did not occur in order to protect the environment but precisely to trigger a new and different economic investment cycle so that I think we need to take care of what is happening in the world at this time, in which the world is developing, that the transition to the green economy is slowly taking place, that it will probably start transition over ten years to a circular economy, or circular economy. Well, here it is, I appeal to my colleagues in the Parliament not to say in their discussions that environmental protection is actually hostile to the economy because it really isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104133	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Marijan Škvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104134	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm saying it from experience, not just at a world level where we may have a counter-referencing in some way where indeed for the development of the economy, major procedures have been made in nature or disrupted the ecosystem. But we have an example in Croatia, so we big capital projects in Croatia didn't take advantage of any of the only ones because we still have terrible discussions today, primarily of ecological nature, whether anything is needed or not. I don't know if you were exactly there when a colleague said before when he was a minister that a major project had failed just because the environmental associations complained that in this one space if this economic activity was made that would disrupt the afternoon holiday of crabs living in that stream. So now it's really a question of whether something is possible or not. On the other hand, there were now strong resistances at the level of this area of hydrocarbon exploitation in the Adriatic region, where on the one hand we dispute it all, and at the same time on the side of Italy we have over twenty oil wells, several hundred gas wells. It's normal there, tens of thousands of tankers passing through that area, that's normal, and we shouldn't have that kind of thing going on. So it turns out that it's really best to have a lot of salt, clean grass, and then we're gonna fall down and we don't care about the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104135	A little peace, please. The final minutes of this debate belong to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture to Mrs. Snježani Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104136	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. Here I would like to answer some questions here, so why the emergency procedure, I would only once again explain that one of the members of the international organisation for tropical wood and the EU is and that the Member State, therefore, must coordinate these activities with the European Commission. And for this reason, the 2006 international contract came by emergency procedure because the activities followed by the European Commission towards the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. And finally, according to the usual procedure, they ended up here as a proposal for a final law. Regarding the difficult situation here, someone also mentioned that there was a debate on tropical wood, I think that we pointed out that we had not given the opening word, so it was the usual procedure to confirm the international agreement where the Republic of Croatia participated in meetings since 2006 and where, as experts in the field of forestry, colleges and other institutes have been involved, there is no excuse to say, the need for more detailed embossing. As for the statement that you cut the forest, I apologize, but I failed to write it down, and the final products we import, I would only read the data relating to the wood industry which can therefore be found at the State Statistics Office. Therefore, an analysis of the external trade in wood and furniture products suggests an increase in exports by 7.3% in 2013 compared to 2012, and in the first 9 months of 2014, exports of wood products and furniture amounted to 984 million dollars, which is 22.46% higher than in 2013. And just in 2013 and 2014, there was this step in exporting final products, so furniture and in one turn about the wood industry. In connection, someone has asked about donations and that it is a donor agreement, so this agreement allows the Republic of Croatia to participate in international projects. And there's a little tropical wood in the Republic of Croatia, there's some palm trees, there's some eucalyptus on certain islands, but it allows our institutes and universities to do research. Here, above all, and in the area of short-sighted cultures related to production was mass, but so we can now participate in international projects, not donors, but donation is voluntary. So, the biggest donors are America, the Scandinavian countries of Switzerland and for membership, which is why we cited this in that organisation to the international one does not need to pay membership fees unlike other international organisations where the Republic of Croatia pays large fees. You don't pay a membership fee here. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104137	Thank you. He had reported two replicas. First vice president at Zeljko Reiner's house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear deputy, Madam Deputy Minister, your attempt to answer, I'm afraid it wasn't that. Because, first of all, Croatia has been a member of the EU for almost two years. Secondly, the European Union does not dictate to anyone at all that any law or contract be adopted by an urgent or non-emergency procedure. So it has absolutely nothing to do with it. So we could have done it peacefully half a year ago, a year ago, and now we could have done it normally in two readings without any, we probably wouldn't have spent a lot more time or anything. I was distracted by this as a symptom, as a symptom that in one thing that is quite certain in this time for the Republic of Croatia, it is of absolutely ephemeral importance that an emergency procedure as well as a number of laws in recent years and that they could have been passed in normal procedure, that nothing terrible would have happened without it, and that certainly there are incomparably important and more priority problems in Croatia which, of course, might have to be adopted by an urgent procedure, but they are not discussed at all, nor in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104139	The answer to the replica of Deputy Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104140	So I will repeat the honourable representative, so the action has been launched by the European Commission and not by the European Union, so on the work of drawing up a new Forest Strategy or Forest Strategy at European Union level. So through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The urgent procedure, therefore, is that we do not see the need to go into two readings something that is an international agreement that was actually discussed and negotiated in 2006. As regards urgency, therefore, together with the Committee on Agriculture on the Agriculture sector, we agreed and corrected so no law that went this year did not go through an emergency procedure in relation to the agriculture sector. So neither the Agriculture Act, nor the Agricultural Land Act, nor the Collegiation Act, nor the Law on the Agronomic Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104141	The second replica of the twilight dwarve.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputys, I just wanted to remind you when you were talking about that right now in 2014 was the biggest export of furniture and you're sort of crediting it as a credit to this government. I'd like to remind you, I don't even know if you remember how the "The Tree Is First" action started, and with what purpose was that "The Tree Is First" action, and what year began that "The Tree Is First" action. This is exactly the kind of action "The Tree is First" was the beginning and the way towards turning the finalisation of the visited tree in Croatia into furniture and objects for use. So that's how that Ambience Fair was created, if you remember. And, of course, nothing can be done in a year, so I'm glad that the exports of the final product have grown, that exports have grown, but in some ways what always bothers me a little bit is that you never remember what precedes something. It's good to say the same, because that "tree's First" action is a great action and it's still going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104143	The replica matches Deputy Snowy's Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104144	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'd just like to say that I answered the question that has been raised about the cutting of the forest and that we are importing final products. And I just read the statistics and said nothing else but that in the first 9 months of 2014 exports of wood products and furniture increased 22.46%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104145	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Deputy Minister, thank all those who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104146	Final proposal of the 2006 Law on the Confirmation of the International Tropical Tree Agreement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 800. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 106 votes in favour of, 1 abstention, are nothing against the Law on Confirming the International Tropical Tree Agreement of 2006 in the text proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104147	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Split Infrastructure Reconstruction Project, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 803; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The project to restore the infrastructure of Luke Split, i.e. the project to build external berths on the port of Split city port, implies the expansion and restoration of two passenger berths on the outside of the harbor in order to accept international line traffic as well as larger ships on circular voyages. The basic loan agreement and the basic guarantee contract were concluded on 17 December 2012. On 19 April 2013, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD to finance a project to restore the infrastructure of Luke Split on which all the preconditions for the consumption of this loan were created. Amendments and additions to the guarantee contracts and amendments and additions to the loan contract were requested for reasons that the funds are not sufficient for the Split port administration to implement the project as a whole. Since the project without an increase in the amount of the loan granted cannot be fully implemented and so far the funds invested cannot be amortised nor the infrastructure renewal project Split can be put into operation by the Split port administration requested from the EBRD in relation to the original amount of 18.8m euros, an additional amount of 5.6m euros for the need to implement the Split port infrastructure renovation projects. In the procurement process for the contractors, only one bidder has provided this joint company, Pongrad Engineering and Viaduct, although in the requalification process three bidders met the required conditions. The offered price of works according to the cost of the previous project amounts to 23 million 347 thousand 366,98 euros without VAT exceeding the agreed amount of credit foreseen for construction works including 10% of unforeseen expenditure with 5 million 535 thousand 366,98 euros without VAT. With this in relation to 10.12.2013, an analysis of the offers was requested by the project makers of the Institute and the Institute of IGH Zagreb, the Business Centre Split with partners. From the analysis submitted on 19.12.2013, the project team is of the opinion that the price offered can be considered acceptable. It is important to note that the loan process was initiated by the Port Authority of Split as early as 7.4.2011 on the basis of an idea project based on the location permit of October 2nd 2012. After the signing of the loan and exit contract of the local authorisation, the main project is under way by the main project auditors, the application of the euro code is required. This is a set of harmonised technical rules for the design of EU buildings and works, which have been possible in Croatia since 30.4.2013, and has become binding by entering the European Union, which is 30.6.2013. The project of external links is the first project of this kind in Croatia, which is fully designed according to the euro code. Based on the main project implemented, the estimated cost of construction of the building amounted to 19 million 772 thousand 267,76 euros without VAT. The difference between the estimated value in the idea project and the main project is based on the application of Eurocodes of standards relating to the safety of buildings in the event of an earthquake in the zone in which the object is built. The project provides for further soil stabilisation, as well as strengthening the construction of the building itself. In accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Amending and Complementary Agreements of 27 March 2014 and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give consent to the conclusion of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Treaty of 10 July 2014 the representatives of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the EBRD held negotiations on 22 July 2014 on technical issues relating to the amendments and additions to the Treaty on Guarantee and Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Treaty. Following the request of the Port Authority of Split, following the adoption of this decision and the guiding negotiations, the amendments and additions to the initially signed guarantee and loan contracts have been agreed. The views on the conditions for entry into force of this Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Treaty and the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Treaty, the conditions of withdrawal of loans, the last date of availability and other questions related to the amendment of the documentation requested by the Croatian Party have been agreed. As a result, the loan conditions were agreed, so the lender is the EBRD, the borrower of the Port Authority of Split, the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, the amount of the remaining loan of 18 million and 800 thousand euros, the additional amount of the loan of 5 million and 600,000 euros. So the total amount of the loan is 24 million and 400 thousand euros, the 15-year repayment deadline with a start of 4 years, the interest eurobor plus 1%. The relevant Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Treaty and the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Treaty was signed on 17 October 2014. Article 18 is replaced by the following: The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is an obligation to confirm international contracts at the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has drawn up a proposal for a draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Treaty and was addressed to the relevant authorities on 7 November 2014 which received the necessary positive opinions. The proposal for a law therefore confirms the international agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD for the financing of the Split port infrastructure reconstruction project. It is found that within the framework of the infrastructure reconstruction project Split Lučka Management Split will finance the construction of external ports on the port of Split by means of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia with its own resources and loan to the EBRD. The Republic of Croatia shall, as a guarantee, be bound by the Treaty on guarantee on a regular basis and fully comply with all financial obligations arising from the implementation of the loan agreement unless the port administration is able to do so. The execution of a guarantee contract other than possible obligations also requires the provision of additional financial resources. Thus, the State budget of the Republic of Croatia will provide for a VAT amount of 6 million kuna in 2016 for the reconstruction of the Split infrastructure with already planned funds for VAT costs for the period 2013-2015. And in the '17-28 period. In the national budget, Split will provide funds for the repayment of 70% of the principal annuity, the total debt of 24 million and 400 thousand kuna. Therefore, the contract for the performance of works was signed on 13 May 2014. The works started on 12 June 2014, the contractor is a joint society... engineering viaduct Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The deadline for the total, therefore, complete work is 31 March 2017, and the first link should be completed by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104149	We have one replica of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104150	Dear Assistant Minister, you can explain a little of this all you've said and about the price hike. Since the very design of an idea project has already led to this loan to the designer himself, it has been made in the calculation of the price of 10% of unforeseeed works. After what you happened, which is why you're now asking for a co-delegation agreement for these 5 million and 600 thousand kunas in their analysis, they said that 9% more than that amount is justified by their calculations, and then they called for some kind of accounting error within the account. So that's where we come to 19%. What is the right amount at this time that we can credibleally make such a decision and be in charge and provide a guarantee for the project itself that has been made without any fissibility study of feasibility and justification of the complete analysis of all these costs that should be produced from this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104151	Deputy Zdenko Antesic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104152	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So in this amount of 24 total 24.4 million kuna is in there, so it's already in there and it's projected to be 10%. So, 10% of any work that, planned work so. But look, let's try to make it very simple. The basic process, therefore, was initiated on the basis of an idea project 7.4.2011, based on an idea project. On the basis of an idea project, a building permit is reached and moves into the design of a project for obtaining a building permit. It is only after that, after the call, that the tendering procedure for the performer is launched and the actual price of the works is obtained. So the actual price of works is as much as it is obtained from a public tender. We said that, first we had a statement of interest of three relevant companies, after the actual offer was made by the joint venturer Pongrad and Viaduct. And finally here's the number actually with which it's being operated, which is, of course, consistent with the representatives of the banks, with the representatives of the IGH, and there's been this data that we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104153	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected Slavko Linic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. One common bill that almost should not even be debated that the proponent has not introduced a series of concerns and, in fact, in the very explanation itself, it is difficult for those who understand investment to accept it. Because what I'm asking on behalf of the club is, how could you call a competition based on an idea project? You didn't call. But if you didn't call how did you call the competition if you didn't close the financial structure? Which right did you, so you created an idea project that was 24 billion, millions, and then you went to call a competition, and you were covered with 5 million less. Therefore, try to understand the tender you couldn't call on the basis of an idea project and an estimate of 18.8m euros, you couldn't write the tender. So, if you called the competition, you had to have a finished project. The project you're saying was different, and it had to mean 24m euros, I guess, as it says here. You've had three offers. And what's the biggest problem? There was only one call, he answered with $24 million, and you're closing the deal. And that's the problem with this project. I would say that this is the irresponsible behaviour of the Port Authority of Split, which is supported by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. I don't know why, because it's impossible for you to go out and call a competition without knowing what the real value was. You have no right to do that! So it didn't, because at least in the data you don't tell us what the value of the project is. What's the value? Obviously, it's not 18, but you couldn't close the contract in May 2014 because you weren't even providing the funds, you weren't providing them, you were only going to negotiate to increase the loan by 5.6. Therefore, I'm afraid you didn't respect all the legal provisions you're required to respect. You cannot call a tender unless the financial situation is covered and there are no sources from where to pay, and on the other hand it is very risky when you only get one offer because you have nothing to discuss. Then it is ultimately simply defined what is the price per project that you will simply accept. The question remains why didn't you call a new competition? No, you have one, and then only after that are you going to do a review of the offer. This is the second failure of people from the Split Port Authority. I estimate that we should go to a new competition and that it was simply necessary to lower the price and what I expect to find out by the end of the debate what the price of the project is, that we know whether there is a projector error. Because I'm guessing that the project carried out had a completely different value than 18 million and 800. So in a very short time too many mistakes by the Port Authority of Split. The contract concluded with the bank in 12 months 2012, i.e. in 2013 completed the projects carried out, started in the tender, the tender completed and signed contract with the contractor in May 2014, at 24.4 million euros or 5.6 million more than was foreseen by the financial structure. And that's why we now provide additional funding and guarantees for the contract. The huge miss of the Split Port Authority which I don't know if we could easily accept. We couldn't accept it. And cast doubt on the responsible work and compliance with the regulations by the Port Authority of Split. And I support the Department of Maritime Affairs. And, of course, I leave it to each other to make a conclusion as to why we were brought into this situation, but it remains the issue of managing the property of the Republic of Croatia. Your conclusion in the next 17 years will provide 70% of the money from the state budget, from the state budget! Now I'm asking you, we're investing in the infrastructure that needs money. It is not only Split port, it is similar with Rijeka Luka. I don't want to say at all that this is the specificity of the Split port. What does that mean? Croatian citizens build port infrastructure for whom? Because if we don't make money with that infrastructure, we don't make money, we don't just have the right to invest in something like this if a citizen from his tax has to finance something to give someone cheaply something to provide services. So we don't have the physicality of this project at all. We're really interested. All right, we can accept that lending is 17 years, and that maybe the justification of investment is in 40 years, but we're wondering if it's 40 years. So let's see how we move to profit. But it's unacceptable for taxpayers to finance economic operators. And then we will slowly come up with basic problems, that we have too low compensation for using maritime goods, for using... and infrastructure in public ports. But we haven't opened these discussions anywhere. We are simply constantly running away from the debates which is the feasibility of the project, when the return of money is according to the project, whether it is worth investing in the project, which are the economic effects of such investment. And we're just making a commitment to the state budget, we're just simply burdening the citizens of Croatia because they'll pay all of it with their taxes. And this shows that we have not simply become responsible for the management of the property of the Republic of Croatia. It is the property of the Republic of Croatia which should show how physical investment is, how quickly the funds will be returned and how the citizens of Croatia as taxpayers and those who need certain social benefits will benefit if we invest in economic facilities. Because these are primarily economic facilities. So I don't think it's an honor to have you here suggest that 70% of this money will be secured from tax revenues and financed from the budget and only 30% that it will actually be achieved by economic activities. Obviously that's not right because if we were to recalculate it then it would turn out to be over 50 to 60 years of using that facility for over 60 years, so that maybe we could get the funds back. Over 60 years! Which I think is too much even though it's a port infrastructure. It is difficult not to be for financial investment, but it is difficult to support the failures of the Port Authority of Split, which was completely irresponsible in this project management.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104155	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104156	We have 5 million and 600 thousand reasons here, colleague Linic, to talk this way as you have now spoken. 2011 The government is running on the basis of ideas solutions, end of 2012. The government is discussing it again and giving support. In the meantime, IGH does project documentation. In 2013, we open a tender, arrange for works, and have a far higher price than was envisaged by the tender or the coster not according to the idea project. Because here, and IGH, he's denying himself in that part of you that you've listed for review. Yesterday on the board, I was the one who raised that question, and here's Mr. Luke Dennon, when we discussed it. We've asked you to review the project. We got it today. You know who was doing the project review, the designer. Where's that? The designer, the one who designed the project review, but on the board we are justified that these additional works, are primarily listed because of European standards of 8 degrees per Richter in case of earthquakes. I think we're all here to build a port in Split, no one's willing to stop the work, but someone has to be responsible for this. He had a man in custody for some kind of travel order or official car that was driving a person into surgery. We're talking about 5 million and 600,000 euros in our citizens' funds here, and this is no doubt that we don't believe that someone did something, but that these things are being brought in clean. Why don't you take some independent audit that didn't participate in the project, let him run a price analysis, which is more than just one bidder here, so I can't compare the prices. We have a lot of this stuff and experience in the past that we need to talk about, and about the funds that today the citizens of this country pay for some of those projects that have been worked on in our space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104157	The reply to the replica Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104158	I don't think it's acceptable for the reasons that it's based on an idea project that went into the contest. It didn't work out, excellent, but be aware of the 2013 tender, if the tender is called in 2013 what is the value of the project? You didn't write that, what's the value? Therefore, if the value was 24 million of the implementation project, at that time you should have already started a request for additional funding, not according to the tender procedure, by choice and by the contract already concluded. You concluded the contract in May 2014 and then moved in August to discuss the increase in credit. These are problems that are unacceptable if we talk about a serious job, and I believe that this job was done by the Port Authority of Split and has full responsibility for that part. So if the real implementation project has already shown a difference of 5 million, so why in 2013 before the competition, before the competition did not go to all this procedure for the tender to be financially closed. And not to do that after only one offer came and after that offer instead of cancelling the competition because it was a bad offer, but it only went into the review of the offer. These are simple reasons why we doubt the quality work of the Port Authority Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104159	Second replica, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104160	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, we all know or do not know that the Port Authority of Split has invested most of its resources so far and without state in what is crucial, which is that it provides line traffic for the most Adriatic and concessionaires to the Middle Dalmatian islands unlike Rijeka, Ploč, Gaženice where the state has stopped to say 100% and it is quite necessary and clear that at this moment the Republic of Croatia and the cruisers, and among the top ten in the Mediterranean by traffic, so 4.5 million passengers, 651 thousand vehicles pass through the Split port, 200 passengers come from the cruises, somewhere around 277 cruises this year are agreed. So what's basic is the job of the port administration and it's to secure line traffic it's secured and it has to provide and for the sake of revenue that's exceptional. Somewhere 50% of the port administration's revenues come from the cruise, it needs to be secured with these external circuits. The main problem of this investment is what they did in 2010 and 2011 by preparing the EBRD, negotiating and negotiating in a way that they negotiated with an idea project and then we obviously obtained negotiations and agreements not to lose the EBRD signed the contract. It is normal that after signing, after the competition and with the idea solutions go to look for funds but we are not to stop all this together obviously had to learn in this procedure, never to agree with an idea project, it is clear to everyone, especially on such serviced projects as ports. So this is a good project. The procedures were initially wrong and not from this port administration and this port administration is now trying to catch up with the time, finish the job essentially of common interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104161	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104162	A respected colleague does not dispute investing in the Split port and there is no doubt about it. But it's the full responsibility of the port administration for unprofessional, unquality and illegally defined work, so whatever you think of it. Head nod confirms in the 2013 contest the implementation project. Therefore, the implementation had to show the difference from the idea project, at the same time it had to go towards ensuring EBRD resources. How are you going to explain to me that someone went in 2011 to secure 18 million and when he saw that his 5 million worth of money was not finished, he went to the competition, and only then to the EBRD. Well, you can't tell me it's a quality procedure. It is a procedure that is illegal, unacceptable and which points to mass suspicion. Why we waited from the moment we saw that the implementation project did not show that it was the same value as the idea project. So it was known in 2013, that they were probably the same people, we didn't change them in the port administration, I guess there are these people, so try to figure out where the basic problem we're talking about is. And the whole doubt throws away what's only one offer, it casts all of our doubts, and that's why we're afraid in our circus that happens all the time that there's going to be a question and corruption again and I don't know what else. The procedure is not respected. An idea project if it was different should be approached immediately to decide who would make the difference. It may have been thought there'd be a state budget, but there's no argument that the estimates are wrong that it's going to be a state budget, so now there's no money, so we're going to go further in demand for a loan. We don't have the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104163	In the name of the SDP club will speak for the respected representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104164	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am from Split, so in a way this is touching me all together and directly. I have to say I don't doubt the legality of the store, and I'm not the one, nor are we the ones who should take care of it. We can lead as parliamentary representatives but there are those who are qualified to do so and if there are illegalities then they should react. As far as investment in the infrastructure of the city of Luka Split is concerned, firstly, I would only mention that I think it is too little valorizing in Croatia that Croatia is a Mediterranean country, Split is a Mediterranean city, Split is a city on two ports, at one port, it is a city port which is southern to say so. We also have a northern port. Split is Srdjane not among 10 but Split is the third port by transport of passengers to the Mediterranean. All of Croatia drove through Split last year by number of passengers. 4.5 million passengers have passed through Split's port. There are so many Croatian citizens at best. 700 thousand vehicles. It is the first port to transport passengers to Croatia behind Genov and Piraeus the third. If I invest in the infrastructure of the Split port I apriori for it also as a Splitian but also as a citizen of Croatia who thinks that the centre is weak to see what is on his so-called so-called "Splician". The periphery, though I think that periphery is never in space but in the head. But the fact is that sometimes we feel and we're cut off, so maybe even now I'm defending and the SDP club will accept the bill, I'm defending this position where some want to put us into peripheral parts of Croatia, and we're not, but here we are, the Gods and the central parts of the Mediterranean maybe. And I'd like it to be understood in Croatia. As for this when the negotiations started, when all that story started, it started during the former government, it's a fact and I don't think it's negative, it started in some times before this time. There are always some times that precede existing current times. So the fact is that an idea project is never what it is, ultimately, an implementing project or a major project. The fact is that in Croatia many times during the construction, something has been changed. Now at least we have a situation that before the building is talked about this change that is necessary obviously. Well, I think it was clear to everyone that there would have to be this kind of intervention. But you see the public procurement process, at least as far as I am aware, has been assessed impeccable and has therefore been carried out under the criteria of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That's why I would rather talk about this situation where we are willing to invest in Croatia, I'm not about to do anything illegal, I'm not for it, you might not need this, no such interventions, maybe our estrada will stand up against this project because they will come to Split's port if it's realized on these circuits, ships on one 270m, on the other of 320m, these are external circuits, they can't come now, they can't come. Maybe someone will say a lot cleaner seas when such ships don't come. But Split is the city where tourism grows at the highest speed in Croatia. If you're looking at the percent, if you're looking at what used to be the fastest. I could say lightning. I'm one of those guys who doesn't think it's as positive as some people think it is, and they're against it, and this research is whether we have gas or oil, etc., because we're afraid for our blue seas. Well, I'm glad the sea, too, maybe more expensive than those who sing about it but I'm glad Croatia too, I'm glad we're developed, I'm glad I'm glad I'm not afraid for my granddaughter whether she's going to live in a developed rich country or an undeveloped country where there's going to be a blue sea. And why wouldn't the sea be blue without being developed? I think it exists in the world today, so why shouldn't it exist with us? But I don't think even that tourism is what is the basis of everything, I think that undeveloped countries only play on a map of tourism, on a map of service activities, Lumbrelina, fair wages, what a cocktail is, and I don't know Dalmatian letters. I respect this need, and that is why I am for this to be built, and it is very important for Split, and it is very important, but I am also developing modern technologies and we have the University of Split which is the most important point of Split's development, we have the production of knowledge that is the most sophisticated product, both maritime and shipbuilding knowledge and experience. I'm looking at Split's port as well. By accepting this bill, I think I accept the idea of the development of Dalmatia Split and Croatia. I think it is the interest of all of us, and if there is any doubt that anything illegal I ask is nice, at least in Croatia we're used to dealing with these topics daily, but I'm not really here to judge from it. So by supporting this project, I end up supporting him and the SDP club, and we will vote in favour of this bill. Nothing against Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104165	We're moving on to replicas. First Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104166	My colleague Jurjevic, nothing against Split, we agree with you. The project needs to be done, it has to be done. But you said the word if there's anything, it looks like it's in my baths, and you're in the dumps. You've pointed your fingers at some local sheriff here a lot of times and mentioned who's what. Now what would happen to any of the local sheriffs as they like to be called to discuss the contest. They are offered a higher amount of funds than they have in the budget provided for that investment. And to close the deal and start the works without securing the funds in the budget, you know where to end up. We are warning exactly that, here is my colleague Linic in his debate and I, through what I was saying, is someone here based on incomplete documentation, seems to be interpreting, on the basis of an unfinished project, a tender has been opened, agreed on a much larger amount than it has been secured, going into work, and now looking for cover for themselves in the decision of this Assembly and approving an increase in funds for these 5 million and 600 thousand euros. No one here is against the construction of the port, no one here is saying that it is not good, that it does not mean the development of Split and Croatia, but the way it has been done, the procedure itself since 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and now we are in 2015, when the works have already passed and moved away, when the... documentation already provides for unplanned works of 10%, when the project is audited by the same designer who did it and when the works have been arranged for so many million euros more than they have provided by the decision of this Assembly and by the decision of the Port Authority of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104167	The replica corresponds to Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104168	Everyone has a right to doubt and I even appreciate that you or my colleague Linic, or someone third, doesn't matter to us at all, doubting. ... It is even a philosophical category that is sometimes fruitful because it makes people think about what is always welcome in humans. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you have the right to do that, too, but I also have the right to think maybe a little bit in a different way. The experiences that speak to me in Split when we're building an ACI marina, so I can't give you as many views as people have against it. Today it is one very, very useful thing, not only for Split but also for Croatia. When many things were done, there were different resistances. I can say that you from the deepest, most honest and most patriotic positions, so you doubt that God wouldn't let the Kuna be here against the law. ... That's not what your colleague says. That's what you read. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In my opinion, I interpret it differently and allow that kind of thinking. I say, it's good for you to think, but it's not bad for me to think too. I am in favour of this proposal and my club will support the bill because we think it is useful and it is not about what we would say in Split, but about what is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104169	Second replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Jurjevic, I understand your desire to justify something that cannot be justified, but it is interesting to have your double archin when it comes to another client and when it comes to the client behind whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia stands. I even here so much as do not blame the State Administration of Split because I am sure knowing the functioning of a state agency such as the State Administration of Split that it was done without the consent of the Government. I am convinced that the director of the Port Authority of Split before signing a contract in which he found that he lacked more than 30% of the funds under the Public Procurement Act had not been allowed to sign the contract that he did not ask the Resort Ministry, or the Government. He asked the government and he said that way, I don't know if the government gave him a written or oral approval, but the government told him about this procedure and the signing of the contract that you could sign, and then we'll go later, until you start working we'll come to the Parliament and we'll do it with the parliamentary, with this law that we're adopting this contract, we'll cover it. But you can't defend it, you understand, it's simply indefensible, and in that part, counterpart Klaric is absolutely right. And as for your claim that probably estradial artists will be against these circuits that the cruisers will be coming to, I think that the exploitation of oil and setting up a platform on... km from Split or from Dubrovnik or from any port in which the cruises sail is in any case not in line with that activity. And therefore, there will be no need for passionate artists against these cruisers, but against these cruises there will be platforms that your government plans to set up a few km from Split or Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104171	Replication response, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104172	My colleague Bacic, first of all, I didn't say that they would be against it, but that someone might be against it. I think they'll organize a event for, I think for. Otherwise you know that there are 180 wells at this point in the Adriatic, that the Adriatic is one closed sea towards the tub, it's the same thing as saying you're not going to build a nuke near Krškoga so it doesn't pollute us eventually. I mean, there's two in Brussels in the middle of town, and you know it when you come to Brussels, and you do it for Christmas, and it's a nice light. And all their highways are lit at night, so that's how they have, we don't, we're healthy, they're not. I expect the hairdryer to be lifted, your fan is very radiant. But look, today is, I am, don't think I'm not into environmentals, don't think I'm against the sea. In fact, I could call myself a seaman. But really, if there are 180 platforms it says a lot what can happen if it happens... At least you know it from a mile here, a mile there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not the point. So, the Adriatic is a sea that isn't big, and it's what it is, one of the fairest in the world anyway. But you see, as far as this is concerned, I really don't have any reason to defend anything that would be illegal and I'm building on it in advance. But I can also say that I am not in a position to prevent initiatives especially that started in other times and that we will always find a reason to stop something rather than to start and end it. Well, at least in Croatia we're used to being a lot of rhetoric, that there's something to be done, so we're the greatest masters to stop anything when it starts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104173	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104174	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome you and the Deputy Minister with an associate. Here's my colleague Jurjevic, I think I share the pride of all the Splits on this presentation of you defending the colors and interests of Split here, and surely we are all proud of that part of your stand. But I don't think that this second part, you've really celebrated what you'd say in Split, because when you say so, here's my parliamentary representatives shouldn't know about it, and it's not our job if it's something wrong especially when you know that new staffs have come to the port administration that should have led these investments, your colleagues that you know very well, so it would be logical that you've talked to them a little bit and seen how this could have happened. Here's your ex-boyfriend here, he made it very clear what this is all about, and that you can't exactly stay blind with all the events that have taken place in this project. And for this project, I'm sure everyone, there's nobody here, I don't trust this Parliament who's against this project either. And I think you have this responsibility to at least talk to people down there with your colleagues and see what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104175	Marin Jurjevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104176	Comrade Sanader, I know that in Split, there are different services in Croatia, but I don't know which one informed you that I didn't talk to these people. I mean, who tells you, I contact you normally. I'm also contacting you, so I don't want to talk to them. I'm contacting the normal thing, except we disagree on the evaluation, the evaluation. I say it's not even in my heel again. However, I believe that everything that is illegal needs to be processed. I just wanted to say we're not a body. You should warn about anything, so here and here are some doubts, so you'll see what it's like and what it's like, but we're not the ones doing this kind of investigation, and yours is to warn if you think. And you did, and I told you my opinion and opinion of my club and I stand behind it. Nothing else, I mean nothing dramatic. And I think it's good for Split. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104177	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104178	Thank you, Vice President, here's the Deputy Minister with his associate. I welcome you all. And I certainly think that we all shared our satisfaction here when it was supported in 2013 by the first law for the basic, basic contract and as one continuity of the project that was both in the previous government and which continued in this government and which clearly supported a good project because it is clear how important it is for Split. This is what my colleague Jurjevic was talking about, so it should not be repeated how important it is for Split, this port building and how much this opens up the space for further traffic growth for these circular trips and for the international transport and how important it is for Split and the entire county to bring a new injection economically for the promotion and development of the total economy, and especially for this tourist and catering that connects directly to the well-being of this port and how important it is for Split's port in the Mediterranean if it is another port in the Mediterranean with 4, slightly more than 4 million passengers, then it was certainly clear how important this project is and how much I know from here, that it is unanimously supported this project and this financial means. Surely what happened afterwards raised many questions and it is common in construction that when a project is done, when a company gets a project it is already considering additional works and it is some practice common in construction, and it is certainly very important how an investor is set up and how it does it. But here also yesterday, through our Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, we asked Mr. here the assistant minister of questions related to this project, because these ambiguities were related to this contract supplement or this five-and-a-half-million-euro annex that are necessary for the project. The questions have already been asked mostly, but one of the questions that would certainly be very important is whether we had to go this way, could we have closed this rest of the funds with some kind of European funds? Because if the contract has already been signed and if this has practically begun to be realised, then we think that in 2014 when it became aware that the project and that the funds were or are qualified to be greater than necessary, then it might be good for the Deputy Minister to respond here or I don't know someone that wasn't thinking about other sources because this is still the worst time to go straight to new loans even though they are favourable EBRD loans. But we haven't heard the answer whether there was any other possibility of funding for this project without going into additional borrowing. Surely we share the concern here or the interest of this whole procedure how this could have been done on the basis of an idea project in the conclusion of the contract, but we all shared the satisfaction of not knowing when the contract was signed here in 2012 and when the news came out here, Minister Linic then the finance minister signed the contract. But I don't understand how there was no question at the time of this fissibility study? It means that the ministry then entered this contract with the EBRD a little recklessly. Well, it's always easier to be a general after the battle, but then you could ask what's up with the fissibility study, is that everything that's signed on with financial resources and the basis of what's been going on right on that amount of funding. So it is obvious that, with the Port Authority of Split, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Resort Ministry controlled the project in quality. Because if they were willing to enter, only to sign on the basis of an idea solution means you can't transfer the responsibility directly to the Port Authority of Split. If the Port Authority of Split has made a mistake, there are others who should have seen it, noticed and asked that question and not go into signing a contract with the EBRD on that amount, and knowing or thinking that it was all well prepared. Here are my predecessors here who have spoken, and today it is clear that there are a lot of questions, a lot of illogical questions. We also asked a question yesterday on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, and we see that we have not received quality answers and we see that we do not have a quality answer to all the questions we have asked. So it would be the most logical project, i.e. this law would not be accepted. But in order to punish Split, i.e. Split and the whole county, then I am not a personal supporter of this because there is no reason to punish one part of our beautiful state, especially in this case a serious investment and to now be called here not to vote for this project. But I think things need to be cleared up and that it has to be clearly brought before this House and cleared up all these questions that have remained unclear here today, and we see that many have remained unsettled. I expect that the Deputy Minister or his assistant will make it clear to the end of this debate because if not, there remains one bitter taste here that these things have not been carried out well. As much as by law, it's very questionable. And now to be called, here's a detail of these EU norms, it's not normal. Because those are the designers who designed 2013 and did not know about these EU standards that should be respected and that is now the reason for this investment to increase. So there's practically nothing holding water here. But I'm saying because of the higher interests that would clearly be stopping this port from being built, it wouldn't be logical if we didn't support this. But we expect things to clear up here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104179	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104180	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sanader is here because of us here and for the public only a few things that seem important to me to point out. You said there's nothing holding water in this, but let's try this. This is not the only case, we brought the Construction Act here in December 2013. This is a major project, so such failures are widely seen, but there are such gaps in practice. You also remember the debate on the Construction Act where we said that the investor should get all the documents to the designer or designer in the design phase so that it doesn't come to this. So it was estimated on the basis of an idea project worth 18 million and 800 thousand euros. Based on the main project and the implementation project, this value is about 1m euros higher. Not for 5 million but for a million euros more, 19 million and 772 thousand and 267. What we need to take into account is that the designers, and that is what they say in their explanation, are assessing costs on such a demanding facility as the port and in this explanation it is difficult to predict any possible disturbances that will occur during construction. And because of that, they offered a price which, I agree with you, it significantly stands down now for 5 million, and this is because it's a major project that does not suffer the cleavage. You can't amortize some of the work that's been done. As a result, the most painless solution was to conclude the project and to move towards the end because everything else would take too long. I'm one of those guys who doesn't doubt there's anything illegal about it, I'd say it's the projector's fault. But now, again, can the designer predict everything in such a demanding project? And with you, I agree, possibly this part, I'm talking about the Eurocode, which the designer had to put into the project because it simply doesn't suffer an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104181	Ante Sanader, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104182	Thank you. Well, look, you got off on the wrong foot, you said things like this happen every day. Turns out we, you know for 15 grand kunas to have some people in custody or for one ride in an official vehicle that we have people in jail. So it's not a good-looking answer exactly that these things are normal and that these things happen. I hope they don't happen often. I know there are always additional works in the construction industry and it's always trying to do some extra work and that performer is his main goal, but it can't justify this way. Here are the records but I did not question the continuation of the work because the port needs to be completed, but it is clear that there should be clean papers or that the materials must be given here and before this Assembly are clear and answer all these questions that are being asked here today. Because if there's no answer to these questions, there's going to be one bitterness and one big question about all this together, and why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104183	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104184	You mentioned the possibility of funding from other sources. Now, this was called 2013, somewhere in 2012. 2013 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Transport adopted an operational programme from 2014 to 2020. And they write in it in 2014 to 2020 for transport projects will be available at 1300 billion euros, out of which 400m euros from the European Regional Development Fund and just over 900m euros from the Cohesion Fund. In addition to these 1,300 billion euros, the Republic of Croatia has the possibility to finance transport projects, etc. etc. Here we're not talking about not being supportive when we're already in a situation like this where the realisation of the project itself has been found, but someone has to answer for something like this. A projector when designing for us on the ground never happens to have a project designer on his own for his own sake always in a single-price tender working from 10 to 15 % of the possibility of some unexpected work. We are simply talking about one fact here, one fact, that regardless of the idea project, the main project, the implementation project, that someone has made a tender, that a public tender is called on the basis of this tender, that, based on this open public tender, an offer is far greater than the means provided and that someone has signed a contract on such an offer and one year after the start of the realisation of the project, one year after the start of the realisation of the project when it is known that 5 million and 600 thousand euros are missing without what will happen, what someone here mentioned about stability and all of those additional works that are possible on that ground. So even at this point, is it a question of whether we even know how much this investment is going to cost at the end? And someone did something he shouldn't have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104185	Thank you. Ante Sanader's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104186	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague, you've confirmed what you're just talking about. Clearly if in 2012, the contract was signed, the first contract with the EBRD then it was clear that, today 2015, the works had not yet spread, the works had just begun, it was almost 3 years, slightly less. In three years, other funds rather than loans were to be provided for in the start. The easiest thing to do is to finance a project with a loan because it is the simplest thing to do. It is far harder to withdraw European funds, but since such huge EU funds are available to us and we practically knew, and that we were already in the EU then it would be logical that we also planned those funds, especially when we knew we were going to increase, or when we needed these new 5 million that it was logical to try some other sources rather than adding contracts and new credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104187	On behalf of the club of HNS representative counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party will support this bill for the simple reason that we believe that such an important project for Split, for otherwise weak investments or insufficient investments in the Republic of Croatia in maritime infrastructure would be more than a sin at this time stop. What opened up as a question and, of course, fully justified and we as HNS don't want to argue here that there have actually been some gaps in the course of this project, but I think that all these gaps that have been made may thus be characterized here, made in good faith. So those who launched the project, those who led the project to an idea stage, and then those who went according to the idea project, those who wanted the project to be revived as soon as possible and finished, may have made some mistakes in the steps. And I would agree here in part with colleagues who react here from the opposition, but I also think that all those steps that have been done so far and what happened at the end, which is that there is a difference in price or that there is a difference between what we had according to the idea project and now this project that is implemented, or this project that needs to be negotiated to finish the job are measurable. Therefore, if someone deliberately in all these stages, i.e. according to the consumers and according to the project, made a deliberate mistake, I think there are those institutions in this country, those institutes that can put their word together in this matter. So if we think and suspect that such a thing has been done then those institutions should be invited to make sure it's done properly. And we as a political body, and I here spoke on behalf of the political party, can say the following thing I said at the beginning, that the project is supported, that this is one of the few large and meaningful investments in maritime infrastructure, that the Port Authority of Split, according to those information we have so far, may have been on the tail or at the beginning of support, state support and funding by the state, and guarantees by the state unlike some others where we were not so critical when we were giving guarantees and we weren't checking and we weren't checking whether this was done properly. I believe that we, as a political body, need to support this project, and if something illegal has been done within this project, which has not had enough arguments or that those who have realised this project are port administrations or certain bodies of the ministry that we have institutions that can deal with and which can possibly sanction those who have done this project wrong and wrongly. All of us who have dealt with and dealt with projects from local to state level know that we are always moving into all projects through an idea project, or we've been on the move so far, even though now new laws tell us that we have to actually bring major projects or implementing projects which I think is good, because these are the very mistakes, these are the mistakes the difference between idea projects and the evaluations that bring forward ideas projects and main projects, implementing projects are relatively often colleagues really brought into this situation. So it starts with an idea project in the best sense, so it's hard to say for what reason the projectors don't say investors go with estimates that aren't in real value, and then, during the project's development, there's real values and real costs that show that the projects are essentially more expensive. Of course, with all the unexpected work that happens, especially on projects like this. Investments in port infrastructure and what awaits us, which awaits the investor in investment in port infrastructure, is something very difficult to predict. Yesterday, on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, we asked for a more detailed report on this project, i.e. that this difference of 5.6 million euros is not in any way small, not in any way, but that we should be given both the content and quantitative elements of this project that make it larger by 5.6 million euros. And I hope, we've given a deadline, we've got one part of it today, but I don't know if all our colleagues are satisfied, I personally don't think we have exactly the quality of the data that we would have here as advocates except for this political decision that I've been talking about, and I also gave these other arguments that what we say raises our hands without any doubt that in reality there's this difference. However, I say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party I can say because we here speak as a policy, the Croatian People's Party will support this project, it will support this Law because we believe that this project would be far more unwise to stop than to support it and let it go into further realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104189	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104190	My colleagues Turina-Đurić, I guess you got the wrong expression when you said that usually projects and run on the basis of an idea project and only later in the phase to see all the problems, so I understood you when you said. I doubt anyone has ever set out on the basis of an idea project without the main project and the confirmation of the main project of a built tender in order to call tenders for selection of contractors and without insurance funds signed the contract and started to work. If someone did that, they broke the law. That's what I'm saying. I personally don't object to the approval, to continue the work, let the project be completed, but let me also express my suspicion that it had to be me. The more this is not about one year from the moment the idea project was made, the more we've been practically here for four years in the project. From an idea project that took time to make 2011 until 2013 when the work was scheduled. So at the time of the opening of the competition, there had to be a major project that talked about it. If there was no main project then the project had to be completed. The works started with an agreed amount which the investor does not have at the time, not based on an idea project, and then we'll see what happens later. And I doubt that anyone on the basis of an idea project, especially in cities and municipalities where they are under the hat of all possible audits, works in such a way as to call an open competition without a tender, and then we'll see what happens during the performance of the works.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104191	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104192	So that colleague Klaric, you're right, you're principled when you want to talk about everything being transparent, maximum and how it should be by law. However, you know that, we are both a political body and I have discussed it in that sense. So you're often in a position to make political decisions first of all and to want to implement certain projects in some period of time that gives you either a mandate or I don't know some assessment of your strategy that you're going to end a particular project. And it is possible, obviously, that it was possible to negotiate on the basis of an idea project because otherwise EBRD...... But it's over now, so the whole story's over. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shuker, you have defended so many insecure things that have happened in this country, we will not mention your investments at all and we will not list them here at all and the guarantees that this country has given for your investments to...... Please, everyone here knows very well what investments are about... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not a shame because you throw it out of the bench whenever you don't like it, then you throw it out of the bench. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not nervous, you're nervous because you get in my word every time you don't fit what I say from this pay phone, always. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What I was about to say is that we will enter this project and enter this project with a conscious decision that we want to create a major project for Split. If there were any errors within this project that fall under any criminal or other responsibility, it is known which institutions in this country should do so and I said so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104193	Comrade Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104194	There's already been a lot said here. So I don't want anyone to think that neither I personally nor anyone here in this assembly has anything against this project in the sense that it is ultimately realized to be for the benefit of both the citizens of Split, Dalmatia and the entire Republic of Croatia. Here we are warning of something that burned us many times in this country. So here's the example: we're not just talking about Split-Dalmatia County and the Split port administration. What was happening in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County when it fell into something like this, when a 30 million dollar loan was taken on which we had until recently paid interest, and that 30 million dollars more years we would be paying for something that stands and rust and is not in office because the assessment was completely guilty. Here we have a particular port crane at my place down in the city of Bakru. 30 million dollars, not only her, but some other facilities are financed by a loan paid from the state budget of this beautiful country. For what? What could we have done with $30 million? We're talking about 5 million and 600,000 euros here, we're talking about a designer who did this to cover what we're bringing today with our analysis, without hiring an external auditor to remove any suspicions. This may be the cleanest and most honest job in the Republic of Croatia, but the way it was done is not Mr. Antesic. You can laugh and scratch your head, but it's not. And you wrote it yourself in what we got today after yesterday's meeting on the Transport Committee. And that's why I'm discussing it this way because someone shouldn't have done it that way. I was meant to because I was fixing the road without a building permit that didn't need a building permit. I was released at the end, but this isn't road repair, this isn't driving some patient to help with surgery or I don't know what to do with an official car. Someone's here, I don't know which parliamentary representative accused her of getting to the Parliament with her official car and stuff like that. This is about 5 million and 600 thousand kunas that someone negotiated without our knowledge. We've only just learned that recently. The works are in realisation, and someone did something they shouldn't have done, and now the coverage is being sought here in this House. We all said that we wanted to work transparently, that we wanted to remove any suspicion of lawlessness, that they would take maximum care of each kuna of taxpayers. Did we keep an eye on them in this project and if it's bad? This debate shows that after we raise our hands for this and the works have to continue because they are of interest, but the question is whether we can make a revision of all of it, who, what and how. Is it possible to revise the project from an independent auditor, perhaps someone on the outside, to determine any June or any euro for which these representatives here will raise their hands because it is not a loan that will only charge this government, it is something that will be paid back for years to the next. And could it have been saved, not to say that only one performer, one only performer, appeared in the contest. Who were we able to compare the price to? The public procurement law is clear. And you can think it's all fair, I think it's the fairest. You might think it's most transparent, maybe it's most transparent, maybe it's really that expensive. But all of this and the way that it happened, we express our suspicion, justifiable suspicion because no one on the basis of an idea project is putting together a tender. No one on the basis of an idea project makes a decision and no one on the basis of a tender, after knowing how much it will cost, after knowing how much it will cost, and in the course of the competition, it was known in the euro how much it will cost, does not sign a contract without having previously provided the funds. We now have the funds, in 2014, the contract signed, the 2013 tender opened, the contract signed, the works started. The works are ongoing, and we are now making this decision to secure those funds that are not agreed, which are not available. Not to say what many of us mentioned here in 2011, in 2012, it was known that we were going to the European Union. We're all crying and we're all talking about paying more membership fees than we're pulling funds from... This is one concrete project. We have here according to the 2014-20 operational programme that I just read to you here, the data of how many billions, thousands of billions should... because this is one such project, not only for Split, for Dalmatia, but for all of Croatia, but not this way. Let's compare it to any city and municipality in which the finger is often pointed, which the media writes about. Here's the other day in 24 hours that the mayor, the mayor of what he has to pay and what he has to do with the car, the house or the oran, which every kuna is looked at, which is being brought in and closed, not because of the 5 million and 600 thousand euros we're talking about here, not because of 100 thousand kunas, but because of 5, 10, 15 thousand kunas and making some decision that doesn't have financial savings. But someone calls for it and points a finger at people like that. I guess we've matured in this situation so that this shouldn't be done in this way, by the more we've been on the Transport Committee when we discussed this law and this debate got 5-6 sentences from the deputy minister who told us that this is because there have already been European standards when the project was launched, where 8 Richter Foundations, seismic founding activities, must be prescribed in the project. We didn't know that in 2011, when we were doing an idea project, we didn't know it in 2012, we didn't know it in 2013, we didn't know it in 2014. Maybe we should have prescribed now that the storm would be 200, so there would be a different foundation. And what about after this now that we've spoken, when the work is under way. There are additional papers, because according to this review, this is not an audit, this is what you delivered to us, and we asked for an audit on the board yesterday because you said the audit was made and that you would deliver it to us. This isn't a revision, this is a projector's manifestion as opposed to price. Whoever was doing the project, whoever put together the tender, who wrote in this memo that he calculated 10% of the additional, who wrote here... It's a contract, this is the projector's answer to your inquiry, this isn't a project review. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you know what five million and 600 thousand euros today are for a company? And this goes directly from citizens' pockets, from the state's budget. Respecting the fact that the project is to be completed, but someone in the ministry or in the Port Authority has to answer for this. And I suggest that when adopting this law and borrowing a new one for that amount, an independent company is engaged to analyse the tender, complete project documentation and actual costs. We want to know when we're already raising our hand for something if that money was really spent on what had to be spent. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104195	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104196	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klaric here are a few facts that are very important in this whole story. Therefore, on the basis of the idea project, a local authorisation was issued and the loan negotiations were then held. And there was a loan, based on an idea project. No, the contractor contract. After that, probably the administration needed some money for the projects themselves, I guess. After that, the main project and implementation project were developed. On this basis, a tender is being opened and an offer is coming that is 5 million and 600,000 euros higher than it was in the idea solution. At that point, the investor calls the designer and asks him what's going on? The projector takes the view that the offered prices can be considered acceptable by means of an analysis carried out on 19.12.2013, as it deviates only 9% from the assessment of the project team's prices. There's a million differences between an idea project and an execution project compared to what you're saying 8 per Richter. And after that, a contract is concluded with the performers in the 4th month, not as you said before we have the main project and implementation project. Here's just the facts of how it all went down. But of course again I say there are errors in the procedure, but not the way you presented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104197	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104198	My colleague, just one answer to the question, can you arrange for 10 kuna work if you don't have 10 kuna? So during the contract of work, if you don't have 10 kuna secured, then during the negotiation of further work in this way, and it's been almost two years since the procedure started and in this obvious if you've read the writing of those who have calculated in the tender. They calculated the price of the unit price. In addition to these unit prices, they raised 10% for possible unexpected works. They put 800 thousand euros plus 100 for surveillance, and then when they analyzed all these prices, they found that the one who won the competition is what you're talking about 9%, so at the basic price that someone's quoted further plus 10% to make sure. And then he's insecure, figure out what percentage is now on the total amount that was planned in the tender of these contracted 20. And now where are the extra papers on who's going to happen? What are we going to ensure when we don't know at this point? We don't have a project review, we only have the projector's opinion on the offer and the prices delivered, not the audit. And we've been told that we have an audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104199	Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104200	... I will probably vote in favour of the proposed law, that someone does not think we are against investment, but today I clearly claim that there is a huge responsibility for irregularities and illegalities of the Port Authority supported by the competent ministry. [[Specially enabled.]] And now I'm going to be very clear, the contest is over in 2013, the review of the same projector was completed at the 12th month, contracts signed in May, 5th month 2014. The difference from the auditor who confirmed it could be that price is over 5 months. Explain to me why the Port Authority didn't go into financing at the moment but started when? When the contract was signed, start the works and imagine how long the negotiation of these 5.6 million took? Start negotiations 10.07.2014, first report by the Government adopts 9.10, and signs 17.10. My dear gentlemen, three months if I count well. So in three months, that's a deal. Explain to me why from the 12th month 2013 until the conclusion of the contract in the 5th month has not been carried out? That's what the Port Authority was supposed to do. This is the responsibility of the ministry that should have been monitored. No, the Public Procurement Act is not respected, the contract is signed without the financing being completed, without covering and going later. These are the failures and illegalities of the Port Authority. And it has nothing to do with Split and the projects in Split. And thank God we're gonna do it. But someone is responsible for what's going on. I won't talk about the doubt that the designer, because we haven't heard what his price for the project was, I don't know him today, you didn't even write him to me. Therefore, the designer is impossible to perform an audit and to say that everything is fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104201	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104202	With the argument of all of what you said and when we follow the sequence of all events based on the main and implementation project made by the Institute of IGH Zagreb with the partners Kozina projects,... Thus, the estimated cost of building the buildings in question was 19 million 772 thousand and 267,76 euros without VAT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to note that the loan negotiations for the project in question were made on the basis of an idea project based on which the local authorisation was made on 2 October 2012. In 2011, something started, in 2012, we already had an evaluation and an idea project, but this is important that they had a major and implementing project before the opening of the competition that said it would be 19 million, 727 and not this 23, I don't know how much, how much it was won in the competition. Just like you said. In order to remove the doubt that we do not want this project to be realised, we will support it, but I think that we all here must be fenced on this amount, that we have accurate indicators, that a review of the complete process and everything that is in the documentation and all the papers that have been carried out, to remove any suspicion is known. Because we raise our hands, we owe the state something to pay for years and not too little. 5 million and 600,000 euros can be made out of this in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104203	Comrade Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104204	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. Well, it's very interesting to listen to this debate. It may be the greatest evil of Croatia that when someone does, when I do, it's good, and when others do it, I won't use words. I'm sorry she doesn't have a colleague of Turina's, and that's why I won't answer this part of her. However, we have some laws that first of all we Parliamentarians adopted here in the House of Commons and we are very often researched when we see that there's some kind of head of state who's not even teamed up or even called for a contest, that he didn't have the means to secure it, etc. And we here today all the time want to show what the white government wrote itself. So the government wrote in this document that she was wrong. That's what the government wrote. That's not a contrive of Parliamentarians. If you start reading here from 1 to the last page then you will see that something that simply shouldn't have happened. And it is undeniable here that all of us in this House of higher education are aware that certain infrastructure projects must be done in Croatia and that certain infrastructure projects simply have to get that funding from the state budget because their economic effect for the entire economy of Croatia is far more important than how much of the activity they are not carrying out must be. So then we can go back and withdraw the story of the highway monetization, the exact same story as this port. It was known that highways work as a base infrastructure project in the Republic of Croatia, they were never built on the principle that they would return on their own. After all, you well know they started at the time of the late President Tudjman, so there was momentum during the coalition government and the HDZ government completed the project. But I'm very interesting to say that there are some things here today that want to defend themselves. However, in never worse times and never lower credit rating, Croatia has never been more in debt. Look at your colleagues and colleagues, says the capital cost Euribor plus 1%. Your six-month Euribor is about 0.1% at this point. And why am I saying this? So I am talking because both Croatian highways and highways Zagreb – Rijeka was in debt at the same investment houses, so EIB, EBRD in exactly the same way. Euribor plus so much and so much. But very interestingly, it was a disaster back then, it was expensive. So what happens when Euribor jumps to 6% in three or four years, then it's going to be an interest rate instead of 1.1 is going to be 7%. But look, these are all facts and I'm not saying this because I'm saying that something is negative or something like this, but I'm just saying that things should always be called the same name, not depending on who did them. And this material may have shown great how great rights fighters have defended us for something that is indefensible. Because what it says here is indefensible. It is simply no one who knows the way, the technique, so how the negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on loans for some kind of project begin. So you start it in principle when you're practically born with an idea, but the particularization of the negotiations and everything is known how it ends. However, what is crucial, the one who opened the tender had to have the project value of the facility. And if his tender, the tender at the tender was above what was provided the means that the tender was not valid. It can't, it just has to cancel out. But no. We here want to say that this is good, although from some fellow MPs we heard here today that we are against projects of this in Split, and it is very interesting that this project was started during the HDZ government. So you can't object that we're against this project, because we're the initiators of this project. This was later technically, poorly done later. Therefore, one and the other policy options are obviously aware that this should be done in Split and that these large 320m ships have where to agree. So that's something that's not controversial and that's what I said this morning on the Finance Committee. However, it is disputed that parliamentary MPs must vote for such a document, which is definitely against the law only because someone is telling us the project will not be completed. What does that mean? That someone should be trampled on the road, because if you don't step on the road, you won't make it in time somewhere else because you have to stand in front of the zebra and let it pass. I mean, I'm banalizing, but that's the way it is. Because look what it says here in the explanation. That's exactly what it says in the explanation. And what my colleague Linic said, if you negotiated the basic amount for the price so there is no institutional bank that will drag you out in the next negotiations. They should have simply taken that part that they explained, because they had to write according to their board why they were increasing for this project amounting to $5 million and $600 thousand. They had to write some kind of reason. And I'm very interested in what they wrote as an explanation and how they explained that the entire negotiations were practically made in three months. Why didn't it come from 12 to 2 or 3 months? No, it's not. Now let's move on. We like to fight over deficits here, and they're all experts on deficits. There's no one who's not an expert here the same as a football selector. Everyone knows everything, but look at your colleagues and colleagues I'm not sure that these figures that are written here are contained in the 2015 budget and are made in the 2016 projections. I'm not sure because I haven't seen this story with Luka Split in the budget of the ministry. But look here, something very interesting is written, says 2016 for value added tax costs will provide an amount of 6 million kuna, and before that, you say 70 percent of the cost will be secured. Well, it has nothing to do with the value added tax. You, when you call the competition, take the total number and you secure 70% of what the project costs. How do you know that 70% will just be money for value added tax, how do you know that? But you wrote it, and it's just proof of how sloppyly access the whole business and how left doesn't know what to do, how left doesn't know what to do right. And then you wrote what you wrote. And of course you're making us all raise our hands for it. And that's what's simply unacceptable. And I need to look back at what my colleague Đuric said to find this similar material and you have dozens, hundreds of loans with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the EBRD. If you find such a similar material that's been made so creamyly, it's an honor. And they've been through this Parliament all the political nomenclature. And when you look here... as here at the beginning, it says how much credit is connected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a bad, catastrophic material has never been written before. Well, if you had explained it differently, then this debate wouldn't be what it is here today, the technical point of the agenda. And it wouldn't be discussed in a way like this at all, but you're just looking at how you chronologically explained something and then the logical thing is that this is happening. But I'm saying, I've come to the hearing for one reason only, listening to my colleagues who are often able to attack a very generous defense of something that is indefensible. So the Split Luka project is not controversial, but the way it all went together is not insurmountable, and it also automatically raises the question of who was in the interest of dragging some things, which was in the interest of two bidders retreating at times when in Croatia the construction sectors of the no-work, cramps, literally using words, that word is usually used to cramp when there is too much, but like this it does not have it, it simply cannot meet its obligations and now only one company appears. If it were true, then that sentence should be put here. But at a time when all the construction companies that are on their knees so you claim that only one job offer has come about a year, a year and a half, earning 24 million kuna gross is not a very small amount at this point for construction companies. So, as my colleagues from the club said, a project that is ultimately my party and the government has proposed and started working, we will not be against it, but I think it would be good for some colleagues to read the records of today's debate and look at what they said before. It's not all that's wrong for one political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104205	Thank you. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't think we should justify that because we are having problems and criticising the procedure, we question the justification of the construction of the Split ferry port, the Split city port, it is clearly unquestionable and regardless of what we are talking about, we will also support this project in the club. So that's not controversial. But what is questionable is what you say and interesting is that double archin that is being set up here in the assembly when the projects are doing one thing and then the second race when doing another. If this had been done in our time in this way today, we would be discussing here the formation of an investigative commission, a parliamentary investigative commission to determine all the circumstances of how this happened. And I just remind myself that, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to date, this project seems to me to be about 23 projects funded by public works, hence signed, 23 projects and in the part of transport, and shipbuilding, and the environment, etc. etc. where a case like this didn't happen. So, if this was the first project that was financed in this way from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then we could say that we had no knowledge, we had no experience, so it happened to you. But I'm saying this is the 23rd project that any ministry and state institution is signing with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and this is the first time that a case like this has happened that is unacceptable, and the more the Public Procurement Act forbids such an opportunity to cross, the more it's impossible. Therefore, it was not something that improvisation, which was not foreseen by the European Directive, was not the Law on Public Procurement but that happened. The law is knowingly broken and is now coming to the Croatian Parliament so that we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament will cover this illegality and this is the whole problem of this project and this decision that we make in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104207	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104208	My colleague Bačić, if I am not usually wrong about the laws of the defence by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and very interestingly that the Government has not sent representatives for this law, it has not indicated that there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, so the institution that conducts the negotiations and everything, and the other participants and credit users only participate in the negotiations in certain segments. However, such laws are always defended by the Ministry of Finance. And I'm sure that this is the case that came out of the ministry, actually, if this was the case from the Ministry of Finance, it would never come out because people who work with international financial institutions would never write this kind of work. So it's obvious that there's been a dispute here that the Ministry of Finance didn't want to sign, and then it's accepted by the resolution ministry which, from the moment the negotiations were concluded and everything, took, what, five or six months to sign the contract. But you yourself said, unfortunately in this Committee in rhetoric, apparently some inconsistencies are reserved for one political option and others are extremely important. It will be very interesting to see how many of these things have been signed away from the Croatian Parliament. So eventually, when you look at the number of unconditional opinions in the ministries, he instead of increasing, he fell for 2013. And the logical thing if brought, if fiscal discipline is strengthened, if legislation is done, then the logical thing is that budget users are better and better at spending financial resources. And then it would be logical for not only the Ministry of Finance and another or two ministries to have an unconditional opinion but also to be over 50% of the budget beneficiaries. But when... This document is then certain that the resolution ministry cannot receive an unconditional opinion for either 2014 or 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104209	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104210	Mr. Shuker, you said that this explanation was written creamy. This isn't even an explanation, this is how we got it, this is a material that can go straight to the state's attorney's office. Hypothetically, what could happen to the mayor of Zagreb or any city or municipality that would, in this way, go into the realization of a project that, on the basis of unsecured funds, based on incomplete documentation or any problem with the documentation, would be awarded to a single contractor who is larger in million amounts than the amount he has secured in the budget.? And if he called 2 years after he went into the realization of the project of his city council, municipal council or assembly to give him consent to assign a city or municipality, what would happen to him, where would he be? Is this an explanation? Is this supposed to be explained? Well, these are the facts, God's people, there's been an open competition on something that wasn't good. They agreed to work on an amount that wasn't secured. After the beginning of the work, the contracting of works moves towards this Parliament to bring and raise the hand to be in charge of the amount of funds missing with 5 million and 600 thousand kuna. What would happen to the mayor of Zagreb, Rijeka, any municipalities or cities if they set out in this way to implement the project? Is this an explanation? And after all, who's supposed to explain it? I don't see a word written by the Ministry of Finance here, what he thinks, maybe it would be good for someone to actually deal with this business by not reducing the importance of the project, of course supporting it entirely. But this isn't how it works. And now we're forced, put in a position to raise our hand for something we don't think is right. [[/Stupid Zgrebec: Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica. Thank you very much. It's a good time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104211	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104212	So I told my colleague Klaric at the beginning of my debate that there was a Public Procurement Act. And if we tried to apply the Public Procurement Act to this, then it would be negative for the Proposer of this kind of text because it's something that just can't go through. But even more stupidity is the goal that the law wants to achieve. Look, we're signing a practically annex loan, actually a loan contract that we already signed. And look what's written here, here you mention the amount of personal loan, you mention the amount of this, so in this document we're talking only about 5 million and 600 thousand euros and here in this explanation there's nothing to mention this because this contract that's signed is signed according to its references. If the same references stand, however, now that we're going to split, the question has been raised since when these 15 years have elapsed whether from the moment of signing the first contract or from the moment this House adopts these additional 5 million and 600. That's why I'm saying, it's no good to have a mustache because there's practically no mention of these 18 million and 800 in extra material, but it's only about 5 million and 600 thousand euros. And therefore, in a complete explanation, it should stand exclusively for that. But I repeat, someone is obviously allowed to do everything, but the jug goes to the water until it breaks and when it breaks, all kinds of food chains are seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104213	Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104214	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary, Mr. Assistant Minister, We will certainly support the construction and construction of the ferry port of Split because this project has already started to develop 12 years ago, but given the problems encountered in the resolution of property-legal relations and given the bankruptcy of Dalmatia wine on the one hand and on the other side of the Adriatic fishing, it was not possible to define maritime well-being and this has stalled from year to year. With the pre-accession Maritime Strategy of 2005 we define the summer bonds as we then coloquially called them which is one of... projects in Croatian maritime and whose realisation should have contributed to the quality of providing services in the ferry port Split, which is, as we have already heard on the 3rd or 4th port in the Mediterranean, no matter, but in any case over 4.5 million passengers is a respectable number which cannot serve existing port infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was not the only project that was late and in which, apart from this creaminess, non-transparency, the illegality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in a certain way, dragging to the right if I can say it all the projects in Croatian maritime affairs. I argue that 600m euros as far as is included and how far it is implemented through 6 national ports in the Republic of Croatia should have an adequate realization, a quality response in the opening of tenders for the use of the port infrastructure through the exit and establishment of concessionaires for port counter-structure. Unfortunately, none of the state ports, whether it is the port of Rijeka, the port of Zadar, the port of Sibenik, the port of Split, the port of Ploče or the port of Dubrovnik, so none of those 6 ports of national importance for which there are signed contracts with international institutions, whether this is the case with the EBRD such as this project or the World Bank, such as the Ploca project and the project Rijeka, or as the project Gaženica with the German bank, so all these projects are late on the one hand, and on the other hand the government has not responded properly. What the Government had to do, Mr. Deputy, and to what we as parliamentary representatives have been trying to encourage you for years, it has not been done by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which would have been a good response to this huge investment in port infrastructure. 600m euros in investment in Rijeka... project, in the port of Gazenica, in the construction... in Sibenik, in the realization of summer connections in Split port, the project of integration of trade and transport in Ploča and the construction of a passenger port in Dubrovnik did not find a good answer on the selection of concessionaries. I believe that it is now the Port Authority of Split, and first of all you should have encouraged it, you should have gone to determine the future concessionary because the construction of the Split port infrastructure did not complete the Split port. Summer bonds require huge investments at the port's superstructure as well. We're not at this point, at least I don't know, if I'm wrong there you can deny me, but we didn't go into the realization of concessionaires that would build a port superstructure in Split's port without which such bonds and such an investment almost remains I won't say a dead letter on paper, but it's not fully realised. We're late with the Rijeka port, we don't know what to do with a concessionary on the Zagreb coast, we don't have a tender is scheduled, nobody answered but we don't have, at least I have no idea what's wrong with the Zagreb coast. An investment of 200m euros in Rijeka port, you know it very well, without building a valley, valley, whatever we want to call railway lines from Rijeka to Botov has no purpose. Where's that project? It's late. We have become a member of the European Union, and we still have not run for the project, nor are we in a position to run for it. What I want to say is that huge money is being invested in port infrastructure, primarily by borrowing the state. One of these projects is the external links of the Split port, today we will be in charge of another 5 million and 600. It is a drop in the sea of these 600m euros, but it does not return to the Croatian economy almost absolutely nothing until we determine the concessionaries that will put these ports into operation. And when the port is put into operation, then 1 euro in that port of the state and all activities that are based on the original port activity means 20 times the amount. So Rijeka's port due to the non-building of the Zagreb coast, due to the unrealization of the valley railway, is almost a port that is only based on the continental terminal Brajdica and nothing more. It's at this point if it's 180,000 containers and that's all we've achieved at the port of Rijeka. We have invested in the purchase of Samsung cranes over 40m euros, we have raised that beard to a high level but for the Croatian economy, for the interest of the Republic of Croatia almost means nothing unless the basic investment is arranged, it is the Zagreb coast and if the railway line is not arranged to Rijeka. There we threw huge money, in Rijeka we were in charge of one-fifth of the funds we needed to build all Croatian highways, and nobody mentions it, and that port unless it was completed with these projects that I was telling you about makes no sense. We spent a lot of money there, and we still don't know a future concessionaire on the Zagreb coast. It's a similar situation with Gažnica. It's a similar situation with Gažnica. It is also a temporary solution to the construction of an administrative building in Gazenica, undermining the project. There's nothing from the fishing port, there's nothing from... the harbor, there's nothing from ships on circular voyages. The gazenica will not be able to return to the state budget what was expected of the gaženica that it was built according to the project originally designed. That's the situation with this project in Split. We are talking here today about 5 million and 600 thousand euros as long as it takes to complete this project, but when we finish it, it's only at the beginning and I don't see why the Government doesn't pass the Law on Maritime Good, why not simplify the concession procedure on the maritime good. We offered you a solution from the HDZ Club, you rejected it. You have the right to do so, I do not deny it to you, but you should have defined and simplified the process of concessioning and economic use of maritime goods in Croatian ports. We will practically invest huge money in something that will be practically without any influence on the Croatian economy, not to speak on the Croatian... system and on the Croatian transport system. That is why I call on you to make this law as soon as possible, to concentrate and to concentrate and to the Zagreb coast, to arrange the Split port, it is the only way to encourage the Croatian port system and through it the Croatian economy. I mentioned earlier that for the 1 euro, dollar or kuna that turns in the Croatian port system, the Croatian economy has 20 kuna benefits from 1 kuna that is coming into the port system. And I will end up as well as my predecessors from the club, so we see this project as something that we started, in which I am personally bound, and I have participated in making an idea solution in solving hundreds of meetings with the State's Attorney's office in order to resolve the issue of bankruptcy of Dalmatia wine and thus enable the construction of summer bonds through the resolution of property-legal relations on the maritime goods. And I find it unusual to finally separate that traffic from the port itself on the international lines for Italy in the first row and for ships on a circular journey, but the project is the moment when an idea project was made that is bad, poorly run, inadmissiblely misled. I think it's about credibility and employees of the Port Authority itself. We are talking here today about the guilt of directors and members of the Port Authority's administration, but they are not, knowing how the ministry works because I've been there for years, they couldn't go into this project because the project is coming back from the position of the state budget because the Port Authority as an agency has its position in the positions of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. They wouldn't have gone into this project if you hadn't told them to go, because we're gonna get that money back through the positions of the state budget. Therefore, as much as the Port Authority bears its share of responsibility as a resolute ministry, the minister cannot be held accountable that he is primarily the most responsible person who should not have implemented or not in this way. At the time when it was found that the value of the investment in the Split port was significant, 30% exceeds the planned amount should have stopped the project... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104215	You have more replicas and you will continue. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104216	Comrade Bačić, therefore, what is present here today among all who have debated that it is an undisputed investment in port infrastructure and God forbid we have done more in the port of Rijeka. The port of Zadar may also be the best example of today’s debate when it is simply to defend something that is indefensible, and there it wants to bring down something that has already been practically made. And because of some intense desire to prove that there was something wrong and disaster because there was some older ferry that might not even be driving anymore, but it was important to get him there to prove that someone there had done something wrong. But no one is looking at the potential of the port and at the end of the day which will also have Croatian highway revenues if all these ports work. So let's look at all these infrastructure projects as one surrounded economic cardiovascular system of the Republic of Croatia and then probably we won't talk about neither the monetizations, nor this, nor the ones, but simply choose the right managers and not the political staff. Because here the same people who are now in the port of Split are the result of a political reckoning within the SDP. So it's nothing new. And therefore, such a rounded infrastructure project that simply enlarges the geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia will no longer be a burden, but will be a practical benefit to the state budget. But these are what they are, but what I've been saying in several replicas and in my debate today, unfortunately, wants to defend something that's indefensible, ignorance and dishappiness, first of all, because they're the ones who dictated everything, and those in the port administration were just technically doing things. I think you know how it goes. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104217	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you know very well that all the projects in the port system except for negotiating for this loan relating to the construction of summer bonds at Split port went through you and your ministry personally, and you yourself have personally signed these projects all the way and signed when it comes to financing with the funds of international financial institutions. You've noticed something that hasn't been mentioned today, and it's very interesting to see. The government has stopped the project Gaženica, i.e. it is not implemented in a very planned project, because it allegedly lacks funds, and here in Split we continue with the project even though the funds are missing. So, there we had the funds arranged so we stopped the project and reduced it. We don't have the funds here. We're going through a project because there's no funds. I'm not saying that for reasons I'm sorry to be doing this in Split, but I'm sorry it didn't end up in Zadar. Because I do, my colleagues you can replicate to me, so I'll be happy to answer you, but I'm sorry that it's not realising both Gaženica and Split. So, I'm not sorry we're doing this on the Internet. Even if the funds were still missing in Split, I would raise my hand to finish the project, but let's not have a double archin. It's not Gazenica, it's not Rijeka... The project is neither a flat port nor a political project of the HDZ nor of the SDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are projects without which there is no economic development of Croatia, without strong ports from Dubrovnik to Rijeka, and we can not encourage economies from... And I'm never sorry for any lip being invested in the port system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the studies have shown, I have already said twice today, that one dollar done by the Port Authority through Steveador, through a port company provided by that service of 20 EUR, kuna or dollars, so 1:20 enriches the entire system of agents, freighters, railways, roads, boaters, etc. etc. So let's not regret the kuna invested in Gagenica, nor the kuna invested...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104219	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104220	I'm glad you mentioned the port of Gaženica in Zadar and where you're asking the question of where the money was thrown. That's not what anyone's talking about. Let's not pretend to be Tosha like your former party president would say. In 2003, Racan's government began its port, and as I kept saying, Milanovic's government will finish what will be done by the day. In fact, what have you been doing for 11 years, or 8 years, as far as the port of Gazenica is concerned? Redesigning the project, then from the building the megalomaniac project worked without insurance. What did you do next? You've imagined the administrative building as a tower of Babylon, and now you're saying we're stopping the project. So, Luka Gagenica is finished, it will be completed, and you what you did with, not personally you, but please did in redesigning that literally cost so that the ferry ramp made such that it had to be redesigned, redesigned because they couldn't fit the ferry. That's how your projects went. The project was also mentioned here by our great national highway construction project, each and every envy. And that's what Tudjman started, but that's what he cared about. Racan's Government began, but transparently, in three years it was a 3x3 project, in three years with precise resources, the Zagreb-Split highway was built. ... Yes, Zagreb-Split. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? It just wasn't the tunnel and that one compartment. What are you talking about? And of course three times cheaper. These are your projects. Therefore, the originally imagined project was disrupted, projected, was to be built much more expensively because [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104221	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104222	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, if you care about it, let all the projects begin in Racan's time, I won't mind. I know very well when the Gazenica started, how we realized it, how she went, but it doesn't matter at all. I don't mind who started it, but I'd like it to be finished. It's a wish for me to finish it. It's not a megalomanic building, it's a building that was built for three ports that were supposed to be there. Three ports, Gagenica is not one port, Gaženica is three ports. Gaženica is a fishing port, Gaženica is a port for ships that we have already contracted with the Turkish State for the possibility of establishing that line and for the ships for which we plan to build Luke in Split today, which are ships on a circular journey, so that Zadar as a port could be one of the ports in the Croatian maritime system. And in this way it was built and imagined and for it were the funds, you know very well, secured through 2 loans totalling 220m euros. But it doesn't matter who started that port. I don't know why you care so much that it's time 2002. I know that here's my colleague Linic started Rijeka in 2002. It's a project that started in 2002 and the only project we inherited in the port system, I apologize, we inherited an idea solution for Luka Dubrovnik. But for Gagenica, for Split, there was no record of that at that time. There's no need to cause any problem about it. These are simply facts that are easily checked. It is not my purpose to reduce the role of Racan's government, nor do I aim to increase the role of the government in which I was, but I am only telling the truth, which is that if we lack money for the Split port. We build it if we still have to secure the funds but don't stop the funds that are secured and don't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104223	Thank you very much. Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104224	Very short, too many projects in port infrastructure and useless a few times. I'll mention the administrative building on the river harbor. One percent has a function, and that's a place to sell tickets to Jadrolinia. 99% are your cafes, restaurants, fitness clubs and bike rentals. It was built by Croatian citizens to be upstairs in Rijeka. It'd be a building in Gagenica. So let's try to understand, we spend money uselessly through investment in port infrastructure. And why is that? We don't do fissibility studies because we don't care, because we write like we do in the law that 70% of the anunities are going to return to the burden of taxpayers through the state budget and what do we need fissibility? Why should we bother to make money with what we've spent on the people of the river? This is the problem that we have no responsibilities, no responsibilities, no port administrations, but we spend as drunk sailors because we take the citizens of Croatia anyway. Unfortunately, that's what happens to us in port infrastructure, which shouldn't happen because we use citizens' money. And another thing about that, as we've seen from the projector's findings, it explains that 9% of his project by idea is different from what we've done. But it doesn't explain how he accepts 15% more of the performer's price than his project. 15% in the same year! So I'm sorry if the minister is going to pursue this designer who thinks he can make a 15% mistake in only three months of differences. These are the problems we have to ask ourselves about because they are citizens' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104225	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104226	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović were to be guided by logic, then I would now honor you if the terminal at the Rijeka Harbor was part of Racan's government. And that doesn't occur to me. I think that terminal, he does not at this time justify his construction but I argue that with the completion of the Zagreb coast, with the concession of the Zagreb coast, with the introduction of Luke Rijeka to the position that Luka Rijeka had before the Homeland War so that this terminal that is now empty, I agree and have been in it many times, he does not justify his construction, he was done according to the project in which you participated. And I'm defending him, like I was defending him, and then I'm defending him today. But what is it? Yeah, it's true, the ports if they don't have their connection to the ice don't make sense. And much smaller then objects in that port system don't make sense when there's no traffic. If it doesn't work out, don't finish everything that's been drawn for the construction of the port, then we'll have small buildings in those ports too. The same is your case with the highway from Zagreb to Ploč at the moment. If this highway ends in the Plots and we Dubrovnik and continues towards Montenegro, Albania and Greece, we continue not from Plot but from... From Mostar to us, the highway to Ploča will be half empty and we will never justify investing in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why if that road were part of the extension of the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor it would have a purpose. If it hadn't been for the Xth Corridor connected with Belgrade, it would still be empty to Southeast Europe. If you stopped that road in Slavonski Brod, there would be no traffic there either. The moment it can reach Turkey, then the highway is full and X. Corridor is justified from Zagreb to Belgrade. But you stop that corridor in Slavonski Brod and it will be empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104227	Thank you very much. We'll talk about roads next time, buddy. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104228	Final proposal of the Act on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Amendments and Supplements to the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia. You want a break? Okay. Let me say it again. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the project of reconstruction and infrastructure, Luke Split, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 803. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find it unanimous with 112 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 803.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104229	We move to: - Work report for 2013 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The report shall be submitted to the Personal Data Protection Agency pursuant to Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by the director of the agency, Mr. Anto Rajkovacha.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104230	Honorable vice president, respected gentlemen of the council and MPs. Let me give you on the basis of Article 31. I submit a report on the work of the Agency for 2013 as the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. I have a slightly ungrateful role to play and I've been reporting for 2013 and I've been at the head of the agency since April 2014. The text of the 2013 report, as you had the opportunity to see, is composed of ten smaller chapters and is essentially to summarise the Agency's work and activities through the most significant activities on the implementation plan of legal obligations aimed at the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia, including the supervision of the processing of personal data. The legal framework on the Agency's action is based on constitutional provisions as well as on a wide range of legal and sublegal acts and on internal labour rules that are fundamentally closely regulated by the entire personal data protection system. Many activities on the international cooperation plan of the Agency such as those most associated with EU accession and membership, including the creation of a number of indications and opinions, participation in numerous seminars, workshops, meetings, sessions, various domestic and international bodies, study and other work visits to agencies and institutions in the EU, the production and the multitude of responses to foreign authorities and institutions from various thematic areas related to the protection of privacy and the protection of personal data, the completion of existing and the implementation of new international projects. They represented a significant part of the Agency's activities during that year and a significant segment in its work. It can be noted that appropriate results have been achieved on this plan, which in figures means over 80% more so-called. Irregular cases from this area compared to the previous year 2012. The Agency has also continued to develop and improve good and quality cooperation with bodies and institutions and legal persons of the state and public sector, in particular through the provision of its opinions and views in relation to current issues related to the protection of personal data and privacy of a wide range of problems, and through joint working meetings with ministries, agencies, offices and others directly involved in the creation of legal and practical solutions from their jurisdiction, and yet linked to the part-time work of the Agency to protect and monitor the processing of personal data. The further development and improvement of the institutional cooperation of the Agency with the mentioned bodies and institutions is certainly the first order of priorities in the work of the Agency in the current and future periods. Several of the most significant public awareness and sensitisation activities on the existence and operation of the Agency have been done through the application of different communication tools, including strengthening the role of the Agency through various events, some of which have also been held in this high home. Afterwards activities relating to children and young people are particularly vulnerable to the protection of privacy on the Internet. Then through collaboration with media representatives through numerous journalistic queries, TV radio stations, portals, etc. A significant segment has also been implemented by the Agency in terms of awareness and sensitisation of the public by the Agency through a number of education of various bodies of institutions, all in the area of legal application of provisions concerning the protection of personal data and the prevention of privacy violations. Also through conferences and workshops, and there were quite a number of them who sought to get to know the general public about the existence and operation of the agency, they were mainly related to thematic, those topics concerning current topicalities and were thematically related to new emerging practically emerging forms of privacy distortion or protection of personal data. The Agency's core work and activities is to act on the requirements for protection of the rights and complaints of citizens and third parties. So, through two pillars, one refers to administrative procedures under rights requirements lodged by citizens and third parties, and there has clearly increased the number of such requests, which points to the fact that citizens are increasingly conscious, increasingly sensitive to this current, today a very current topic. The actions carried out show from current indicators, 135 administrative acts have been adopted, and this is important to stress that 110 solutions are 25 conclusions. That figure itself doesn't say anything, but later when we compare it to another indicator, you'll see its meaning. This means that the number of applications, i.e. the increase in the number of administrative acts adopted, has increased by over 100% from the previous year. Administrative procedures under official duty are also another pillar of the activity in respect of the protection of the right. And with that, 48 solutions have been made that have been led, meaning procedures that have been conducted under official duty. All of which, during the year, 183 administrative acts were adopted, meaning solutions and conclusions, which are unpopular but over 190% increase compared to the previous year. There was also enormous growth in the area of irregular procedures, i.e. the question of citizens of legal entities, 528 of them, and in this respect, the agency brought legal opinions in each of these situations related to the processing of personal data on certain situations which are very colorful, very different and new things happen on a daily basis. Maybe a very important part are administrative disputes. So if I find that an appeal against the Agency is not allowed under the law but it is possible to initiate an administrative dispute with the competent administrative court, it can be referred to by citizens or bodies potentially dissatisfied with the solution made by the Agency. So out of the total number of solutions 183 against the agency's solution, 8 administrative disputes were initiated before the competent administrative courts. The administrative courts have confirmed the solutions in six cases, the agency's two-time solutions. In two cases, the cases were returned to the retrial. I checked today, and these two cases aren't closed in front of the administrative court. The judgments of the administrative courts in which the Agency’s solutions were confirmed concerned the processing of personal data by the video surveillance system, a fairly current situation, the processing of personal identification numbers by the public legal authorities for the purpose of charging parking costs and the like, the processing of personal data in excess of the purpose of the conclusion of a consumer credit agreement. Then the processing of personal data for marketing purposes, also a very interesting situation when it comes to the marketing, public publication of personal data by debtors on the apartment building’s advertising board also represented as a phenomenon, the public publication of personal data on inadmissible court rulings. So let's call it against the law sometimes such processing, or publication of personal data. In cases in which the judgments of administrative courts have been passed, which respected and annulled the Agency's solutions, two therefore refer to the processing of personal data on the work experience, so in the field of labour law, in the tender procedure as well as the processing of personal data, it was a personal photo by private detectives on private property. Of course, in this respect, the agency makes all legally permissible actions to further justify the originally adopted solutions in order for the final lawyer to be in the sense of a positive outcome for the agency. In two cases, the Agency also submitted the indictments, i.e. initiated infringement proceedings. In four cases, the Commission has given jurisdiction to the police and the state attorney's office, as it was a suspicion of the possible criminal offence of the illicit use of personal data as referred to in Article 146. A criminal code for which the agency is not in charge. In addition, for the purpose of preventing the misuse of personal data, the Agency acted in a way that issued recommendations to improve the protection of personal data to relevant authorities in the Republic of Croatia and thus continued to draw further attention to the problem of the misuse of personal data in this area. As regards the supervision itself as one of the central activities of the Agency, there has also been a significant increase in supervisory activities, particularly in relation to direct controls compared to the previous year. So a total of 322 supervisory activities were carried out during 2013 and the tables clearly show that direct controls were growing. This is also linked to the objective fact that, in April 2013, a single mini reorganisation formed a special supervisory department and a central registry as early as possible, in a time before it was part of a joint department that dealt with protection issues and through protection and surveillance measures. As regards indirect controls, these are the controls carried out in accordance with Articles 14, 16, and 18. The law on the protection of personal data relating to the verification of compliance with the obligations to establish records of collections, personal data and their delivery in the central register of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and to the enforcement of the obligation to appoint a personal data protection officer and to notify the Agency thereof. A total of 94 indirect activities were carried out there. As regards the central register itself and the register of personal data protection officers, it is also evident, and the figures are shown in the report and would not particularly repeat them, it is a matter of increasing practical activity and parameters in all given positions, almost in some and multiple. I would point out that as regards the financial resources for the work of the agency, which are naturally provided in the state budget and, of course, is planned and controlled every year, it is important to point out for 2013, that the realisation of more than 10 million kuna is shown, which is 99.25% of the implementation of the overall plan. In this year, funds amounting to more than € 4.5 million were added to the final payment of the IPA project which lasted three years before so that it seems mathematically to be the amount of the 10 million real budgets of the agency moving at an annual level of around 5 million and 505 and 600 kuna. The IPA project 2007 component called Strengthening the Agency's capacity after the end of 2013 means final payments have also been made. Thus, it can be concluded that as far as the agency's work itself is concerned, all indicators are on a steady rise, some of which are significantly increasing. Preliminarily, although not the subject of this report, the growth of all indicators is visible in 2014, meaning as regards the activities themselves, although it is less people due to the fact that they are leaving the agency part of the employees concerned with the right to access information, 4-5 persons, including a commissioner who has functioned as a new institution and redefine jobs within the departments' schedule so that the fact of all activities is somewhat contrary to capacities. We are working hard and we will try to strengthen humanely more because of the facts and numerous recommendations of international evaluation bodies regarding the obligations that await us regarding our entry into the Schengen environment. The very fact is that the importance of the agency as the only independent body in Croatia that directly means dealing with issues of personal data protection, the importance of the agency will certainly grow in this respect, in a good way and because of the fact that it enters the Schengen family. That would be what I meant to point out as very summed up in this report and I'd like to apologize to you for the sound of the voice, I'm at a high temperature, I'm practically... I'm really sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104231	We're not much better here either. Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104232	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Director, here's when you're sick I'm sorry I answered with the replica, but here's the need to comment a little bit. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has made progress in protecting personal data in this kind of formal sense, the sense of adoption and the rules and laws, but in the time of the Internet, Facebook and everything else, we have an ever-increasing feeling that it is really impossible to protect our privacy and our personal data. We have a good law, the agency we see is still making progress in the work because we follow those reports. We also have a central office, or central register, where the heads of the collection of their personal data collection are registered, but how to protect myself from getting, say, birthday cards from hair salons I've never been to. The neighbor who gave birth immediately the second day was showered with several offers from producers of baby diapers, or other products. We have the impression that only it is known that we who have applied to the central register for us are known to deal with personal data and how to protect against those who are illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104233	Replication response, Mr. Anto Rajkovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104234	I thank you for your question, Madam Representative. This is how you presented it, so this real situation, unfortunately, I'm going to have to disappoint you. The agency doesn't have full authority over these situations. This would go more to the address of HACOM or Croatian Network Communications Agency, unless it is personalised, so the messages set, the representatives of certain collection managers or someone doing personal data processing on behalf of the host. Of course I won't say anything new. A request shall follow for the protection and enforcement of the procedure and, in that sense, the adoption of an appropriate legal act by the Agency in the form of a solution or recommendation or any other relevant legal act. In any event, the situation of receiving countless messages from unnamed addresses, text etc. Indeed, they fall under HACOM's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104235	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104236	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, Mr Rajkovaca, I must say that you spoke longer about this Personal Data Protection Agency report than Prime Minister Milanovic did when he spoke about budgeting for 2015, at least per minute. Commendably, since you're sick, but I need to ask you a few questions, actually do one finding and one question. On one question from one of our colleagues how many actually the agency exists in the Republic of Croatia a small number of people knew how to answer that, then we got to have them 40 and that they hired somewhere around 6390 people. One of these agencies is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which employs 30 persons. Now, if we look at the area of data protection in the Republic of Croatia, it is governed by a number of legal and sublegal acts by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 37, the Convention itself and the Data Protection Act itself. In 2013, you had 212 requests. If you divide it by 30 people it's actually 7 per employee for the whole year. Then 110 solutions, that's 3.6 per employee for the whole year. 25 conclusions is 0.8 per employee not to mention further, with the fact that it is said here that the number of employees of the agency at the end of 2013 is reduced I do not know how much. And there's something else interesting about this agency's report. It is said that it is trying to actually provide protection of personal data on the Internet when it unlawfully implements such data, such as Google or Youtube or certain domains and services that the agency cannot order to remove. It is noted that in these cases, in order to help the parties, the agency acted in a way that explored who owns a particular domain which is actually impossible to achieve. And if I have time, and I don't have any more. Here, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104237	Anto Rajkovich, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104238	I thank you for the matter of Mr. Representative Babic. In fact, here's my comment on the finding I agree with the number of requests for protection. He's just a fact, he's so big, and we can't make him bigger. We're going to make it bigger with all these other activities and increased sensitivity of people, because many people believe they're not even aware of where they're leaving their personal data, in which situations, and then when some real-day real situation happens, and people feel where my data is from now on in an insurance company where I don't have a registered car. How now? So there's been some kind of security breach. I'm saying that again, and we need to establish special ad hoc surveillance in a given situation. We're also doing systematic, so sectoral surveillance. through different areas. Among other things, what we're trying to determine. We determine the legality of our actions, we determine the procedures, we determine a series of some real situations,hodograms, etc. And on a special request, we carry out a special test procedure in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and use surveillance measures if it is technically and for other reasons, and most often. As regards the number, results, etc. I can only say that I've been personally since the first day I came to the agency trying to promote and I'm trying to run mechanisms that we have more solutions. I mentioned that it depends on the sensitivity of the public, the citizens and the number of requests submitted. There are thousands of questions to which they are, but they have no form...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104239	Thank you. You have two minutes to answer, and it's past time Thank you very much. [[I apologize.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the DC Club, New Wave, People's Party – reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt is not present and is losing the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104240	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has two very significant roles. One is the protection of personal data, and the other is the right to access information. What has already been said several times in the Croatian Parliament is that it is not clear from the very name of the agency that the agency is also concerned about the protection of the right to access information. It would be much clearer if, in the very name of the agency, it were already highlighted what its role or mission was. This is especially important if we know that it is necessary to raise awareness of the citizens' rights, because there are more and more frequent distortions of personal rights happening right now. Communication revolution, day-to-day identity theft, virtual life, are just some of the issues that open up and call the agency to turn more public. But let's start with the work report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2013. First of all, I would like to point out that we are in March 2015 and we are discussing the 2013 Report, instead of the 2014 Report. I sincerely hope that this will change in the future and that we will recognise the importance of this topic and not always discuss it with the backdrop of the report. In 2013, the agency had activities related to the EU as part of individual indications, participation in EU coordination meetings, the establishment of cooperation with other data protection bodies at European level, as well as the fulfilment of other obligations related to EU membership. Also, as part of the Lifelong Learning Programme Leonardo da Vinci has been approved a project to strengthen awareness of the protection of personal data and mobility for professionals in vocational education and training. Furthermore, the Agency co-operated with the authorities of the state and public authorities as regards the adoption of regulations and laws and the granting of opinions. She thus strengthened her advisory and supervisory role. The report stressed that additional activities have been undertaken to further open the agency to the public. That's certainly commendable. However, we believe that the Croatian public is not sufficiently familiar with these areas and the need to continue activities in this direction. Citizens must be educated on the protection of personal data, i.e. they need to be given information to whom to contact for the protection of their personal data and which procedures and mechanisms are available for their protection. It's equally true when we talk about the right to access information. As regards the mentioned activities carried out by the Agency for the purpose of approaching the public, the largest number of such activities was related to the marking of 28 January, the European Data Protection Day. The news is that since 2013, we have ambassadors of privacy who have been elected in the report because despite their popularity, they have kept discretion over their private lives. But I believe that in this assembly a very small number of us have recognized these ambassadors and their involvement in the protection of personal data, and it would be possible to discuss how the ambassadors of privacy kept their discretion about their private life. On the occasion of the European Data Protection Day, the Agency also broadcast the first public television promo video, printed promo materials that pointed out and educated the importance of personal data on the Internet and social networks, and were specifically intended for children, young people, parents and breeders. In this context, I especially want to highlight two activities. The first workshop is a workshop for students at the "Jabukovac" elementary school on the protection of privacy on the Internet. I have to say that Apple's Elementary School is one of the few that actually has any activity in the area. And the second activity is the award contest "My Facebook Story". Of course, a multimedia exhibition is also commendable, including digital educational materials in the form of manuals for children, parents and teachers and many other useful contents. Education of children and parents, teachers are very important. It is clear that not only the agency's contribution is expected but society as a whole. The rapid development of technology brings many changes. The new possibilities that bring us certain applications change literally from day to day, change from hour to hour. Smart phones also open up various options. That is why I stress so much the importance of all educational activities for the purpose of awarenessing the public about the importance of personal data and privacy and additional educational activities can often be crucial especially when we know that information in Croatian primary schools is only an election subject and only in higher classes. Rare are schools that offer as an extracurricular activity in the first years of schooling. Or when we know that Croatia currently does not have a National Strategy for Child Safety on the Internet. And the existing curricula does not even prescribe a minimum knowledge of responsible and secure use of Internet, computer and mobile technologies. It's just that social networks are often... for taking or stealing other people's data and photographs, and children and young people are the most endangered. However, personal data from children and minors are often not protected in the media either. Newspapers and portals are full of data on child neglect and child abuse. Although we are not the only victims of children and youths, we are all very often in danger. In everyday life, people often buy and give their personal information, while not aware of the dangers they have put themselves and then their entire family. I would therefore like to remind myself of the research conducted by CARNET with its co-workers on the security risks of social networks. Among other things, the study warns against the fact that personal data is knowingly denied by users parts of their privacy. The study also draws attention to the dangers posed by social network users and notes that it is necessary to pay attention to the discovery of a large amount of personal or confidential information. By using social networks, each user is in fact knowingly disowning part of his privacy, so it is important to evaluate quality whether any data could endanger him in any way and thus not publish any information about himself on any of the social networks. It's a recommendation of research. The publication of photographs, which is a very common phenomenon on social networks, often has inconceivable consequences. Very often, minors find themselves in this problem. Not long ago, we had the opportunity to read about an 8th-grade primary school student who posted naked pictures of his ex-girlfriend on the Internet. Or we all remember the case from Vinkovac, Lobor and many others. I ask myself, but also us, would you read almost daily about such events if everyone were more educated about the importance of protecting personal data? Therefore, it is recommended that everyone, most young or parents, teach children not to contact strangers, not to share their private content with the entire online community. And to remember, once something is posted on the Internet, it remains forever recorded. Finally, the activities listed in the report for public awareness are also the Agency's website. The pages are highlighted as one of the options for informing citizens and other target groups. However, we believe that the Agency's pages should be more active and recognizable in some way. They are actually full of information only in January when it is marked Personal Data Protection Day, and during the rest of the year these activities are very weak. Just for a little while, I'm going to add a few figures, and in 2013, the total number of surveillance activities was increased, and we heard it through direct and indirect surveillance, with the number of direct controls increasing by more than 250%. There is also an increase in resolved cases relating to the protection of rights, when compared to 2012 it is an increase of around 13%. The increase is also recorded in the number of administrative acts adopted, an increase in the number of questions received for administrative opinions, etc. These data indicate that during this reporting period the agency has made progress in action, but this is necessary and necessary, and on the other hand it is often not enough when we know that the rights we are talking about today are often underprotected, and many citizens who face such problems do not know where and how to react. We've all somehow become addicted to all possible online services that make it easier for us to access information, the ability to conduct cash transactions, purchases, sales, contracting jobs, meetings, entertainment and socializing. Therefore, with this debate, we should send a message that more caution is needed, mostly for young people, as well as for their parents, teachers, grandparents, and grandparents, that it is important to take care of personal data not only of their own but also of others. It is the only way we will be able to influence society's consciousness as a whole to know that our right to data protection is, and that education can protect us from potential data theft, and that virtual life has advantages if we know what our rights are. Only in this way will we avoid the headlines in the media like "Splician victim of a young man, ruined my life, offered me over Facebook for 100 kuna", "Awesome in Zadar school, photos of a naked osmica crashes the Internet, parents and victims in shock."or when the daughters opened a 12-year-old profile on the face, they didn't think anything like this would happen. My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, are full of these and similar titles, which are filled with newspaper columns and portals from day to day. It is therefore up to the agency to report on cases like this and to strengthen activities in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104241	Hope Murganic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104242	I thank the esteemed vice president. Here's what I'm going to say to my colleague Banic. Maybe something that here might not be a good interpretation, but to me, I really have to thank you for this debate for the reason that she was instructive and because she's somehow revived and completed this report, and I believe that the director of the agency will agree with my opinion. In particular, in this debate you highlighted a problem that is related to young people, protecting young people from any ignorance, and from that comes both problems and abuses related to their social networks, so that I do not now list all those who are. It must be all that is related to data protection, all this information more and more to the public of the agencies whether it is in jurisdiction or not, but it has to work harder and harder to educate the general population. You are the heads of the collection and through the laws, through the regulations in some way and disciplined them and created their obligations but the population knows little about how to protect themselves and how to end up doing the right thing. And lastly, I will say what my colleague Banic pointed out are the ambassadors of privacy. I would not want anyone to get me wrong, nor would anyone from the agency think I'm a lecturer, but people in public life who are in the world of estherade and fashion are not a very good example of protecting the privacy of them because they are liked to be written, read about them and thus, knowingly or unconsciously, provide a negative example in terms of protecting the privacy of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104243	Martina Banic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104244	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Murganic, thank you for making up for my debate. First of all, I have to say that I am always for education, and I think that education can be solved not only in education, we can help children and young people, but also in parents and grandparents and everyone. I may have been in my debate most about children and young people but here I would like to say that not only those who are threatened by possible theft of data, identity or anything but all of our citizens are actually citizens. Here's a few days ago I read on a portal, maybe a lot of us wouldn't have thought of it at all, but for example, we have a list of shames on buildings where people live where their data is actually published because they owe them example for the reservation. It's also not really supposed to work, it's the same kind of manipulation with other people's data. As far as the ambassador of privacy is concerned, I fully agree with you, which is why I mentioned it, because I think that the ambassadors of privacy at least those who were elected in 2013 absolutely live to give their life on the plate to the public, they only and only do so, that's their life. So I don't see how they could be involved in helping someone to protect their data when their profits are just about us seeing when they got married the second or third time, or married, and when they got a child or didn't, and what shoes they wear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104245	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104246	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Banic, two things I want to say because of how you said "distributions" with personal data, and good for Mr Rajkovac to hear. For example, European regulations and EU court rulings protect the right to the privacy of citizens of the Union, such as a traveller who, for example, goes from Croatia to Great Britain, can be found in a situation where his private data is automatically sent to authorities. Great Britain is one of 15 countries with such national regulations. And the other thing is the EU court's ruling regarding video surveillance of public space without consent that violates the Personal Data Protection Directive. I think it's good for you to point out because the surveillance camera footage is actually personal because it allows the person to be identified. However, the Directive only allows for the processing of data for which the person has given consent but this rule does not apply if the video of the surveillance camera is purely personal or domestic. The court says that video surveillance can't actually be considered purely personal or domestic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104247	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104248	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Babic, here's another example of how data is actually manipulated. I think it's a good thing you said that. And I think it's a good idea to actually bring as much data as possible, but that's actually going in favor of what I'm saying is that citizens should be aware that there's even an agency, that I can ask myself somewhere in which way, what can be done and what can't be done with their data. And that's why I'm appealing here to the director of the agency that we finally have, although you're talking about a report that isn't yours, but we're waiting for a report for 2014 but I hope that really the agency will open up more to the public and that the public would even realize how important their data is and where they share them all and in what way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104249	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104250	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Banic, it is a shame that this discussion and that message you have read from your debate will not reach out to these young people but also to children and their parents but also to the elderly because the importance as you have pointed out in your debate is in some way that these personal data are not really offered on the plate. I'd just say one more thing, all these facebooks, twitters, unfortunately the big monster is among the politicians, and then we politicians wonder why different things come out. But we're reading on Twitter that someone cooks charms, dresses socks, rains, coughs, goes on the road and comes back, gets what he gets, who he says, who he says, and then when there's a bad situation, then they're surprised and then they're amazed. And that's why this education is important, because if any example has to be of these children and young people then it's primarily their parents, teachers and I can't be teachers on Facebook with my students and be one of the 5,000 friends on Facebook and discuss with them some topics that I don't know about at all, kids don't even know about elementary school or high school are appropriate to their professors in that way, unless, of course, it's only about the subject and the teaching course in question. On the other hand, we have here and these personal data that journalists are investigating on their own and publishing them in the media, and we don't have any help here. And there's no help because we don't know exactly who to turn to. Here's what the director himself said when his colleague warned him of some marketing agencies that he wasn't the agency responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104251	Thank you very much. Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104252	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, so I'm going to start with what you started with, which is politicians on social networks. I don't think that's even worth mentioning. In some ways, social network politicians only use to promote themselves and later wonders because they have a charm here, like you said, that didn't turn out well or those socks they wore weren't good. However, I wanted to appeal first and foremost to my parents because they are your parents who care about children above all, along with the teachers in both kindergartens and elementary and secondary schools, later and in college. What you've noticed well is that teachers themselves in schools are actually subject to these social networks and then start groups, for example, on facebooks where children from the 4th grade are brought together. And 4th grade kids couldn't actually have an open profile on a facebook because they're under 13 years old. That's what takes education. So we have to start from the top, from the parents, from the breeders, from teachers and teachers in schools to children if we want to protect them because it's absolutely the only way. Because when I look at a facebook that one father publishes a photograph of his newborn child on a facebook here it's literally to me, literally not good. And that's how he actually gives his only-born child to the general public and actually gives such a photograph that is absolutely no place on any social network and not in the media or anywhere else and can always be misused and it's actually a personal problem. Until we regain consciousness, there won't be any fear of moving.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104253	On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104254	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Directors, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot, especially a colleague Banic who spoke before me, has debated social networks a lot, but social networks are not the only way to abuse personal data and we have to bear in mind that the things that are put on social networks are actually us putting on our personal choices. Whether we are aware of what we are doing in this matter or not is a second question. But tonight we are discussing a report from one of the agencies operating in the Republic of Croatia. But what particularly separates this agency from others is that it is concerned about the protection of personal data, issues that affect at one point all citizens of this country but also important human rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Agency monitors the implementation of the protection of personal data, indicates identified abuses, the collection of them, the resolution, the requirements for determining rights violations, the central register of the personal data collection, the proposals and recommendations for improving the protection of personal data and others provided for by the law. Mr. Director told us more about it during his presentation. Among other obligations and requirements for the conduct of the Agency, the international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with international organisations or individual countries are based on international agreements. For example. Eurojust, Europol, Interpol and others. Speaking in general about the report ahead of us and considering the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in 2013, and taking into account the recommendations made by the Croatian Parliament by discussing last year's report, it is clear that the Agency has made significant progress in its work. I am pleased to see that many recommendations are actually made here in a way and appreciated that is seen from the report itself and that we will also see on next year's report, which is primarily the fact that the agency has made an effort and opened it to the media and the public. It's a long-term process, it's not easy to do, it's what we discussed when we talked about our attorneys' reports from the regiment to the specialised attorneys. It's just that some news isn't attractive to the media. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data may be one of those and, unfortunately, it is the matter of their editorial policy. However, the agency acted through participation in radio and TV shows to create the Agency’s visibility. She also conducted seminars, education for the targeted public, as well as in previous years. The above education was aimed at strengthening awareness of the need to protect the privacy of the right to access information. It is precisely these similar activities of the agency that have affected, at least I believe, the increased number of claims for protection of rights and an increased number of questions following a violation of privacy. So inform the public about their rights, inform about the existence of an agency or an institution that cares about respecting their rights and the prerequisite for using these levers at all. The implementation of sectoral supervisions as I have spoken and during the last report results better in the implementation of personal data protection measures, given that they are targeted at target groups of personal data collection managers and I believe it is necessary to also increase the number of direct controls and by official duty, since the Agency has the power to act at the request of the respondents, the request of a third party or under official duty. It is seen, therefore, from the data or numbers that the director has stated that this is exactly what is happening. So just a few numbers for your information. As regards the request for treatment for breach of personal data protection in 2012, 187 requests were submitted, in 2013 212, therefore significantly more. So in 2012, we had 442, in 2013 528 which is slightly less than 20% higher, so we see that progress. Supervisory activities, 2012 were carried out in 322, 2013 in 334. And what is particularly important to me because of what I pointed out earlier, direct supervision in 2012 68 such, in 2013, 240 so +250% higher. One problem that exists in the field of data protection is in fact the classification of documents by the public administration body by means of a code of secrecy and thus unnecessarily concealing data and creating an impression of manipulation of non-transparency. Many local environments are unfortunately prone to secretly declare from a project to build a sports hall to a snow-cleaning contract. In this segment, the law must be clearer and allow citizens to access the requested information, and other citizens can directly sanction those city, municipal or state administrations that do not do so well. From the above, I conclude that the agency has made significant shifts in all areas of work and that is why the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104255	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104256	Work report for 2013 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2013 Working Report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is hereby adopted. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find it unanimous with 113 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104257	And now we will discuss - the final report on the work and resources spent on the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 The report is submitted by the State Statistics Office based on Article 44. Law on censuses, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by the Director of the State Statistics Office Mr. Marko Kristoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104258	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I am honored to present the final report on the work and resources spent on the census of the population, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. The census, households and apartments is the largest and most significant statistical survey aimed at collecting basic data on numbers, territorial schedules and composition of the population according to its demographic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics. In addition to the census data, data on households and apartments and their characteristics are collected. Detailed and reliable data on the number, distribution and composition of the population and households and dwellings are necessary for the construction of a framework for other statistical research, which means that without the census we could not conduct reliable statistical research based on a representative sample, which we accurately identify different indicators and monitor their changes. The list therefore allows the monitoring of the working activity of the population, income, personal consumption, poverty, energy consumption, the use of information communication technologies and the health of the population, and census data are also used as input variables in almost all other statistical research and serve as a basis for the development of projects financed from EU funds for the production of different strategies, but also improve the accuracy of market research, but also the attitudes and preferences of the population. The census is, in addition to the most complex statistical research required by large financial resources and greatly exceeds the framework of regular statistical research. As a result, censuses are conducted every 10 years in accordance with the recommendations of the Statistical Commission. It is important to stress that the census of residents and households in the Republic of Croatia is fully in line with international statistical standards and, of course, is implemented in accordance with EU regulations. Probably the most demanding part of the census was the establishment of an organisational structure for the preparation of the organisation and implementation of the census established 21 County List Commissions, 123 branches for the implementation of the census, and 699 list centres. The entire organisational structure consisted of 17558 persons who directly participated in the census on the ground. The census was conducted during the period from 1 to 28 April 2011 according to the condition on 31 March at 24 hours considered a critical moment of the census. It passed without any major problems, and a total of 6 million 713254 basic census forms were collected. After the census, the list materials were sent to the facility as part of the former military Dr. Ante Starčević in Jastrebarski, and the list material is in line with all archive regulations and on shelves that were a total length of 2.7 km in a storage facility of 500 m2. In accordance with the recommendations of the Conference of European Statistics, the list material has been processed in the usual statistical data processing procedures in which the combination of digital recording, intelligent character recognition, correction and automatic encryption has been assessed as the most cost-effective and has therefore been chosen for this reason. The process was made for 10 months. For the preparation phases, the list building was planned to employ 400 employees for a period of 6 months. After the first 6 months, work extensions for 200 of the best employees were changed. For other phases of processing for 4 months. Although the Institute of Statistics is in May and again in July 2011. The Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a proposal for a decision to give consent to the reception of civil servants for a certain period of time, despite the fact that the funds for such a decision were secured in the 2011 state budget, the Government did not make the above decision. For those reasons, it was practically only started a year later, i.e. in mid-2011, when a decision was taken to give consent to carry out the preparatory work of data inputs by means of a measure of public works when 400 persons were hired in May 2013, and then in January 2013, therefore an apology. Before 2012, there were an additional 100 persons for a period of 4 months. Their employment has reached all the assumptions for the completion of certain stages of processing so that census data can be processed according to the wholes and, immediately after their completion, put the final results at the disposal of the public. Despite the late beginning of the processing, it is important to note that the State Statistics Institute published the final results of the census, households and apartments in accordance with the UN and EUROSTAT deadlines, and that it did not in any way affect the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia for late processing. The first results of the census were published two months after the data collection was completed, while a significant part was published at the end of 2012, and in the second half of 2013, the remaining data were published, while the last and last data when we actually announced to the public that the census was completed was published on 8.11.2013. I'm terribly sorry that none of the media gave this news. All of these data are available of course on the Institute's website, and as an interesting point, I would point out that the final database from which the exit tables are being prepared has over a billion and 305 million data. And it should also be pointed out that more than 1500 users in the last two years have asked for over 4500 special tables. Following the completion of the processing during January and February 2014, the inventory materials were destroyed in accordance with the prescribed procedure. What should possibly be highlighted before the final part, and actually refers more to the census methodology since we have often heard in public that there are certain differences in the administrative population and the established census, that the population list is applied so-called. the concept of a normal place of residence in which a period of one year, i.e. longer and intention to be present or absent from at least one year is the basic criterion for including or excluding persons from the total population of the country. As a result of that list, it is not comparable to other administrative records, and this is also clearly stated in Article 37. The list law. Finally, 174 million kuna and 917 thousand kuna were planned to finance the 2011 census, while a total of 117 million 074 thousand 419 kuna and 42 June were spent. Thus, as much as 57.8 million kunas were spent less than or a third of them were originally foreseen. The cost of the Statistical Office is 103 million and 600 thousand kuna, and the cost of the State Geodetic Administration is 13 million and 400 thousand kuna. The main reason why fewer funds were spent is the extended censusing time compared to 2001 when the regulation lasted for 2 weeks, and now it took 4 weeks, which, of course, required a smaller number of persons, the recruitment of persons for processing through public work measures, and the abandonment of the promotion campaign planned to take place in public information. This last decision probably wasn't the wisest decision because I believe it was made differently to have fewer problems actually in communicating the final census results. What may in the end still need to be pointed out briefly is that I hope that this is the last regulation implemented by traditional methods, but unfortunately not the latest list of classical censuses in the Republic of Croatia because administrative records are currently not good enough to carry out so-called. administrative or registration list. So, the next list is definitely planned to be implemented through more modern data collection methods and we hope to take advantage of the actual opportunity to create sufficient quality administrative records and that in 2031 it will no longer be necessary to conduct a classic census. Here, I ask the Parliament to adopt this report and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104259	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104260	Thank you, esteemed vice president, respected director of the State Statistics Office, Mr. Marko Kristoff, with associate Ms. Ivan Lasan, co-workers and colleagues. This final report on jobs and funds spent on the census, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 will support the HDZ club. We've already heard enough that this is the biggest statistical study, which is the goal, so I wouldn't repeat myself. This list is necessary for the construction of statistical research and is needed in the planning and implementation of economic and social development policies. The census is conducted every 10 years and lists 3 units, population, household and apartment. And as we always warn when topics are statistical reports, plans and programs, so we have to say statistics today, so even this list is not our own purpose. This list found that in 2011, there were 4 million 284 thousands and 889 inhabitants, as many men, women, as many as 65 and over. So we learned how many Croats are in the Republic of Croatia, how much is the share of Catholics, how many have been declared to be Croatian, how much is in the Republic of Croatia without Croatian citizenship, how many are living in the marriage community, how many families are without children, etc. We also learned how many of our people have higher education and how many basics. Although state data in our country on 31 March 2011 are at 24 hours, although since the figures have changed significantly, although it is assumed that only in recent years the Republic of Croatia has left nearly 30,000 young people, over 800 doctors, still have not taken measures to implement economic and social development, which is the purpose of this census. We are still educating young people for the Employment Service or for a journey across the border. We have not yet adopted a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia with which the County Strategy should be coordinated, and then the lower order, our cities and municipalities which are the basis for the withdrawal of funds from European funds. Here are the methodologies, list patterns, organisational structure, listing on the ground. We have been informed that there was also a need to make prior censuses, make a checklist and technical documentation, and finally process the census data. The processing was planned for 10 months, however, it was not conducted by planned dynamics. It further states that the financing of the preparation of the organisation and the implementation of the census in the processing and pooling of the census results was provided by the state budget of 174 million. In relation to the planned funds, the State Institute made savings, so that less funds were spent for the preparation, organisation and implementation of the 2011 census than for the 2001 census. The total cost of the 2001 census was €135.5 million while the 2011 costs amounted to Kuna 117 million, which is €18.5 million less than was spent in 2001 or 57 million than planned. It further states that the largest savings were incurred by employees working on data processing operations. The costs of staff have been significantly reduced as the decision to give consent to the preparation of the data entry operations of this list is employed by employees through public works measures. Further savings relate to the cost of renting space for data processing. The savings are also achieved through lower cost of equipment facilities with furniture, computer and communication equipment costs and costs for computer programs. Significant savings have been made in the cost of promotion and information. All savings are always commendable, the work of the State Statistics Institute is commendable. However, since the processing of the prescribed data has not been carried out by the planned dynamics because the employment of workers is needed to process the data lagging behind even though the means provided are the reason why we have little to stop. In this House, Prime Minister Milanovic said the number of unemployed is our biggest and most important problem. The increase in the number of employees is the goal of which directly or indirectly weighs all the measures and all the actions we take. That's the key to middle society, said the prime minister. All of our unemployed, and now there are 326 258, daily on their enquiries they get answers or no job, or no funds for new employment. For the census, households and apartments there were jobs, this list was also provided with funding in the state budget, and this time too there was no employment even temporarily. Surely such a decision and such savings would not support our unemployed and those who have their loved ones on the list of Employment Services. Furthermore, the employment of employees through measures of public works has created preconditions for completing the processing and publication of final data during 2012 and 2013. The use of employees to measure public works except as aid to the unemployed, assistance and local communities, civil society associations and other entities. This measure is primarily intended for projects in the field of social care, education, environmental protection and conservation, as well as maintenance and municipal work. Using them as a census, these areas remained cut off. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the final Report on jobs and funds spent on the list of population, households and apartments in the Republic of 2011 with the recommendation not to receive savings on unemployed and projects in the field of social policy. As measures for economic, social development based on this list need to be taken as soon as possible, so as not to show that we have even fewer residents because they have moved out, even more unemployed because we are training them for the Employment Service and even fewer families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104261	A colleague of Juričev-Martinchev's criticism was wrongly addressed to Milanovic because it was in 2011, some other government was. ... Martina Banic replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104262	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, would first of all like to say that after the census was finally published then first in the media we could read about some of the interesting things that were related to it, so it was so that some of our citizens said that they were Martians, others that they were citizens of the world. So the first thing that went was that and then the more important data and the important information that you were talking about today came in later. I think what we need most is all of our concerns and what we saw in the census is that Croatian residents are getting older and smaller. I think it should be very good to underline whether it is precisely an indicator of the poor demographic situation in Croatia, it is a situation in which we read daily, but often we do nothing about it, and very little and here we are discussing it. I think that this issue is both a demographic and a political and economic issue in the Republic of Croatia, and a question of ageing the population, and the question of leaving the young people you mentioned also raises many other issues, which are obviously neither the government nor the ministries have any answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104263	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104264	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Banic, as you said, the proportion of the population from 0 to 14 years was only 15% and those from 65 to more 17.7%. I'm sure it was 2011, that now it's an even worse picture. As far as public works are concerned, here I will now answer the vice-presidents, and the conditions for completing the processing and publication of the final data during 2012 and 2013, we know which government was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104265	But in 2011, no approval was granted. Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104266	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, are doing more precisely this information for the censusers were just persons from the office and unemployed persons. And since you're already mentioning non-employment income unemployment, here you are today on benches and answers, so just to remind you that in 2014 a total of 37,212 young people were involved in active employment policy measures. Therefore, you cannot keep talking about not taking care of employment, especially the employment of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104267	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104268	Thank you very much. Care is being taken and this measure is public works for every commendation, but as I said it is intended for development and projects in the field of social care, education, environmental protection and preservation, not for the census. With this we could of these 57 million remaining certainly numerous unemployed could find at least temporary jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104269	On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104270	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Director of the State Department of Statistics, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this report. Already, the director pointed out, as well as colleague Juričev-Martinchev, that it is actually the largest statistical survey conducted by the State Statistics Office. What counterpart Juričev-Martinchev said and then had a controversy with the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, I would also like to look back on behalf of the SDP club, which primarily refers to the dynamics of the results. Namely, the lists carried out in 2011, we are now in 2015. The same report that the HDZ Club will support and, as this SDP club will support, it is well stated that the full data processing began only in mid-2012 after the Government of the Republic of Croatia held its meeting on 19 April, so the Government of Zoran Milanovic made a decision, or agreed to engage 400 people for a certain time through a measure of public works, because in 2011, the Government of Jadranka Kosor did not make that decision even though there was a project in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the fact that the government of Zoran Milanovic made a decision to hire the first 400 people back in 2013, so after it was employed by these people to be precise, 396 additional 100 people were still hired for a period of 4 months. So although we have waited very long for data processing I must express the satisfaction that it is also noted that when it comes to international data and meeting the deadlines that we have not been late. How large a job this was is in support of the fact that there were 17,5 thousand people engaged in the census and compared to the list that was conducted 10 years earlier. Therefore, fewer people were engaged and more efficient and more rationally allocated funds from the state budget because almost one third of the projected funds were spent less. When it comes to the results of the census itself, although the census in the Republic of Croatia as in some other neighbouring countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Republic of Macedonia is not a political issue very often, the data obtained by the census is highly politicised. So one of these is, let's say, demographic numbers, and this report is just as much of a sign when we're talking about how we're an old nation. We really belong to one of the oldest European nations, if we are on average 41.7 years old, but if you also see that we have crossed critical values for the age index and age coefficient in the 1971 census, then you can actually see that not only is one government mandate insufficient but it has been more than 40 years since certain trends in Croatian society have not changed. In fact, the census also shows very clearly how different it is living in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia and what the quality of life is, therefore, from the level of literacy to the number of squares, to the Internet access and what differences there are, of course, in the age of the population, for example from Ličko-Senj County to the city of Zagreb. I will only express my hope, so on behalf of the SDP club, that we will not politicise this data and that both in future and in some other debates, and that it will serve us both this and every subsequent government to adopt adequate policies both demographic and regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104271	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104272	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague Mulic, I wanted to relate only to this last part of your debate and I had to believe, in fact, because of the lack of sensitivity, because of the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the young politicians of the SDP that this issue will be seriously, seriously considered and initiated by certain actions. The average age in the Republic of Croatia is 47 years. I would not speak much of the data, from 1991 to 2011 we lost 152 thousand inhabitants which is more than a loss in 7 homeland wars and in that period until 2011 the Republic of Croatia lost almost half a million inhabitants. I think it's an alarming situation and that we should all actually take a lot of account of it and bring some measures and programs to stop this trend, so here's what's in favor of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104273	Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104274	Thank you, colleague Babić, it is difficult to disagree with you, one small correction, 41.7 years old but in the Republic of Croatia, I think it is a trend that worries me on the left as well as you on the right. We have almost 25% single households. So once we had data, I didn't read it out of this that we had a 1.38 whole child. So besides moving out trends, even though we can actually talk about the structure of ourselves, except that we are getting older even though more male children are born, the fact is that we are increasingly living in single households and we have a growing number of children. I mean, we're not the only European nation to face this problem. The whole European continent is getting older and the time will come very soon, in fact, that we will have to think not only about increasing work permits for foreigners, for immigrants but also for literally increasing the number of asylums and everything else. Because it's very difficult in fact, other than certain measures, you can make me say that to Croatian citizens and citizens that they have greater talent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104275	Marco Kristoff, final, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104276	I'll only try two minutes, actually. What I first thanked everyone for a constructive debate, I really think we did a great job and there should be commendation for all the staff of the office. What I must only correct is therefore the data from the last census are not methodologically comparable to the previous censuses precisely because this definition of the usual place of residence has not been applied before. So in previous censuses, the total population was actually included in those who, in one way or another, were economically related to the Republic of Croatia. So for example, once plastically, if the father of the head of the family worked in Germany and his family was in Croatia, he was previously registered as a Croatian resident, and now he is not. That's a fundamental difference, so here I'm just asking you to use official data from the migration of the State Statistics Office. Here's another thank you all for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104277	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the National Strategy Implementation Report and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and at 12 o'clock we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-12-0.u104278	Final report on the operations and resources spent on the census of the population and households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A final report on the jobs and resources spent on the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. Please vote on the conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the vote is 110 votes in favour and one abstention vote, nothing against the proposed conclusion. Honorable representative Glavak, Sunny Glavak.
