ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106651	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we will continue our work. ... Yeah, where are the hands, Cain's in the air, that's the usual, I don't even have to ask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106652	Well, at ten o'clock, as we all know, the Frank Association here in St. Marka organizes protests so that about their legitimate demands to try to get these people to meet more and more of the disaster that hit them as well as the people who were getting loans from Raiffeisen cooperatives, I'm looking for a break of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106653	HDSSB, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106654	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, given that Croatian television has no supervisory board and is making moves of significant interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia both in material and in any other sense, for example. Leave the premises of Croatian TV in Osijek and Croatian Radio please pause for 10 minutes to explain and ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106655	Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106656	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament for the Association "Franak" and the protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106657	Here's the Frank Association. Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106658	"Franek."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106659	It's the same "Franak." Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106660	"Franek."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106661	Same subject. Say Same subject. [["Franek" is the same word as "Franak".]] Shower, good. I'm setting a break to 9.45 minutes. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106663	Yesterday I asked the Deputy Minister of Finance, so I'm going to do it today by asking parliamentary deputies if it's true that some banker threatened Mr. Lalovec. If so, who is this banker? Is it true what one newspaper conveyed that by checking the property of Croatian citizens abroad, the Tax Administration found that a pensioner only on behalf of interest in the Italian bank received millions of dollars. The verification revealed that the account owner had the same address as the chairman of a business bank's administration. The second thing I want to say is that here in front of us, means the Croatian Parliament, here in front of the Croatian Government, the Constitutional Court, is about to gather hundreds, perhaps thousands of citizens who want to talk about the situation in which they were brought about by ′′ Switzerland. I clearly want to talk about it, but I want to speak as I have announced to the Raiffeisen cooperatives. We must also be honest, we must admit that the government has done a lot when it comes to Swiss. Maybe she didn't do enough, but she did a lot. Maybe she even picked the most appropriate variant at this point for the banks. But let's be honest, she has eased the burden on many people who took loans in Swiss. Why did I say that there was a choice most appropriate to the banks? Banks will lose some 400, 450 million kuna on 24 billion kunas in Swiss loans. It's actually nothing when we have in mind how far these citizens or those who have taken credit in Swiss have been told. Banks don't lose anything. Any other option for banks would be incomparably unfavourable. The government is before or today the Parliament will do so, will reduce and tighten interest, thank God for doing so, it is more than commendable. However, there is another problem facing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which no one has the impression of institutions in this country wants to hear. These are the loans our citizens took from the so-called. Raiffeisen cooperatives or what would we in Istria call Raiffeisen sprinklers. 75% of those who have received this loan under quotes cannot return or have huge problems returning, serving these obligations. It's not normal that a man simply doesn't believe. On the other hand, they, I think of those in Austria, are closing the directors of the Styrian Raiffeisen banks or these cooperatives, the consuls, asking Croatians to pay everything, and Croatian institutions under the patronage of the famous... which runs campaigns for many, including my former comrades, are doing Istrian, rapist, coastal and other poverty. Can you imagine that 75% of the loan, these loans, Raiffeisen's credits, the citizens can't be serviced. I'm asking myself who's going to stand up for these people. To be clear, these people have to come back borrowed, but how? Under conditions that would have been if they had taken credit at Raiffeisen Bank in Croatia. Well, they finally thought the Croatian bank was behind it. These cooperatives, these consuls, they have no approval at all to work on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. No institution to run. In fact, many even made a pact with individuals from these Raiffeisen cooperatives. What they've been doing is illegal work and what's born-again hump can't just convalitate over time or it can't be strengthened. So what I'm saying is that the Swiss are the problem, that the government sort of solves it. We should normally go out to the citizens completely to meet but God needs me to do something and stop at the end of this thieving hoax that was launched by Raiffeisen's lending offices over the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106664	On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic will speak on another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. On several occasions this year we discussed both Croatian TV and the request of the Croatian Parliament and the receiving board, not pay but receiving on Croatian TV and those related to Croatian television, so those for whom Croatian television pays so-called TV. an external production that takes up more seats and percentages than provided for by the Croatian Television Rules of Procedure. But this time I was warned by employees of Croatian TV in Osijek that it is being prepared on behalf of the rationalization of Croatian TV's business sales of Croatian television in Osijek. Namely, it should be noted that Croatian television is owned by a 100% television studio building, and the radio building has been rented from the city of Osijek for very long to say decent or small money for 50 years. The buildings are in the same yard and are connected by a tunnel through which they are connected and all necessary cables, so technically fully connected whole. Not only technically, but spatially. So, an explanation of this so-called. The rationalization is that everything should be in one building is completely deplaced. Nevertheless, Croatian television is looking for a rent of 1000 square meters of space in Osijek in some new buildings. I will not speak the names of the owner, but here are the buildings called either a supermarket or a euro home as it is called in Osijek and Croatian TV will pay the fees of Croatian citizens, who pay the fee for Croatian television to pay the rent of these premises dearly and leave their own premises. The purpose of these spaces that are abandoned in the present, so those in the current premises and TV studios, is also very questionable. I would not want to discuss to whom and how it will be intended and to whom it will be issued or given both for use and for property due to some debts of Croatian television, and although there is a sign about it but I will not speak of a statement, because therefore it has not yet been implemented. But the procedure that has already been carried out in Dubrovnik, Zadar and Pula, which is again the subject of a criminal application, so leaving the territory of Croatian television and renting in the premises of the second to say, the second legal entity, above all, and a certain bank is very suspicious and very strange, because the Supervisory Board of Croatian Television, which should evaluate this move and financially and in any other way, does not exist. So he's not loaded, members don't have enough to decide. And here is a delegation from Croatian TV in Zagreb to Osijek to scout the premises that will be rented by Croatian television, which will be expensively paid by Croatian citizens, not by the head director of Croatian television and its assistants, but by Croatian citizens. And leave the spaces that are restored, modernized, spatially connected and fully functional as they are now in Osijek. That's why I asked for this break, because in addition to what we're like as the Croatian Parliament and the Information Committee asked for a few months ago, we have new moves that actually oppose common sense. So they are opposed to one of the excessive business, one economic business, but here they are going to Osijek next to Pula, Zadar, Dubrovnik for rent space. If the goal is to spend as much money as possible, I think that Croatian television on the programme and on the systematicisation and payment of those who are really doing the job for which Croatian television is in charge, so in a certain increase, it should spend these money rather than giving money to a private person, a private company for renting space. There'll be more words about that, of course, but this time I've talked about it because it's really about one move that Okay. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] What I wanted was what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106666	The subject of the Swiss franc will bring us back on behalf of the HDZ, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, usually when it comes to such topics where our fellow citizens are affected helplessly, then it is necessary to use arguments for the simple reason that you offer with these arguments those who need to seek a solution to find it. That is how the Croatian Democratic Community Club has now come to a conclusion in this House for more than 3 months with one single goal for all participants in the negotiation process to get a deadline until they have to agree. Because when you give someone a deadline, then he knows he has to do something. However, by freezing the course, the government thought that it had solved the problem and that the problem would be resolved on its own. Now here, after three months, the problem will not be solved by itself, nor will the problem be solved. However, there is one question that is very interesting and that simply makes a man think about the trauma of these fellow citizens of ours, which is how that business banks whose course is frozen far below what the current Swiss course is not concerned about in principle that he will lose that difference. And now I'm going back to my first question when it went public at all, to say that meeting people with the problem of the Swiss franc still didn't get a solid answer today, although there is also a representative of the Croatian National Bank in this House whether these business banks actually bought these Swiss and whether they have to buy them on the market today and return them back from where they borrowed them. That's the key question. Or it was done so-called. A one-sided transaction in one direction, a balance sheet, and then you come up with that you've basically lost the expected profit, and you haven't lost the real profit. And that's a question that we as Parliamentarians have to get an answer for the simple reason that we don't politicize this issue. Because this topic has no place for politicizing. There's a lot of different things about why people were in debt in Swiss. We know exactly and do not need to act crazy which the Swiss business bank has brought to Croatia, which country in the European Community has pushed those Swiss loans. And again, at this point, 28% of all credit ratings in Poland are in Swiss, in Austria is about 18, and in Hungary is about 12%, so all credit ratings. And it's true that the story of the Swiss came from Austria. Also, some have raised loans to solve their housing problem, some have been raising loans because of some speculative business activities. And at this point, the state must first of all look at this social aspect, which is our fellow citizens who have dealt with their housing issues and who, unfortunately, some have lost their jobs in the meantime. And that's where it shows whether the state has that social policy or not. And I'll finish with that, as far as the Swiss are concerned. As for Raiffeisen's savings facility, it was also the proposal to conclude the HDZ Club and I'm sorry the government didn't adopt it. Why? Because the key question here is whether loans in Croatia were offered to Croatian citizens by intermediaries or not. If they were offered by intermediaries, it is in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act and other laws contrary to Croatian laws. Because the law passed in 2002 clearly states that Croatian citizens can be in charge abroad, but the money via the giro accounts must come to Croatia and must be notified to the CNB. So if these loans were offered to Croatian citizens by intermediaries, they offered people who had no authority to do so and the police could very easily investigate it. If that happens, it's an unauthorized activity. Another thing, companies that were founded to buy property for people who couldn't repay those loans. The same can be seen who it is. And the third thing, if citizens and those explicits say they want to repay loans because they're not such unfavourable loans, but whether or not someone was paying these people the wars, those intermediaries are not the question again that the institutions of this country have to determine. And when all this is determined by diplomatic activity, the Republic of Austria and Croatia can solve the problem. Why is it getting away from the institutions of the Republic of Croatia doing their job that they have to do? I don't know. But I think it's just until the police and the others find out if there's been an intervention, and when it's been determined that there's been an intervention, Just one more sentence, please. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Then we get to the point where someone didn't report the money from the mediation, and then there goes tax evasion and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106668	The same theme in the name of Independent Leftists will be discussed by Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106669	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. If there wasn't a foreign exchange clause, this problem called Frank wouldn't exist. So we're talking, we're actually putting out the fire with that handbrent that they say in Zagorje, the fire while the forest is burning. And we say here we do. And we're really wet with sweat, we're running, but the woods are gonna burn. And we're fooling these citizens who are going to protest today in St. John's Square. Mark. Someone once said there was an accident. It's not an accident, Frank, or the exchange clause, it's not an accident, it's a system. It's a systemic problem. And all those who think it's an accident are very wrong. It's a very well-developed system. And you need to take off your final masks and they need to say that they're spraying with hand syringes while the forest burns that they won't do anything. They're all fire extinguishers, not measures. The system is run by large-scale capital, and the banks are at the helm of the large-scale capital. And I guess that's clear to everyone. And this agreement that is being prepared between the EU and America is one of those dangers and we will be even greater slaves. And it'll never be good for a little man. The state sets the rules, doesn't talk to banks as it talks to them, it says, we need to negotiate, we need to beg. I feel sorry for our finance minister who almost bagged with banks, begged them, godfathered them, threatened them, and then what? We're bringing some half-measures here to the Parliament. This is where my colleague Schuker asked one of the most important questions, which I agree with him, did the banks buy Swiss or did they not buy Swiss? It doesn't matter whether they bought or didn't, the citizens who got the loans didn't get the Swiss. Those Swiss must exist somewhere. Assumption is that it's pure manipulation, the banks, I guess, because they didn't share loans in Swiss, they didn't even buy Swiss. And now the question is they say if the exchange clauses of economic analysts were to be abolished, the financial collapse, the chaos, the collapse. They simply defend the interests of banks. Most of these analysts we listen to daily in the media are actually bank employees or are closely related to these banks. And they are representatives of large-scale capital like many media in Croatia. And that's why they're scaring us. And now the question is who will pay for these systematic manipulations. It's a systematic manipulation that this Parliament agrees with. The price needs to be paid by the manipulators, the banks. We started from the beginning of 2010. My colleague Vuljanić and I had a press release in front of the CNB where we warned about problems that would arise. At the time, even the Franks didn't exist, but none of those who had loans supported us, none of them. The governor then mocked us with a statement that, I repeat for the hundredth time here in the Parliament, after several months in Opatija at the Economic Forum, we should consider the gradual abolition of the foreign exchange clause. Or at least ban the taking of new loans. So we need to cancel the foreign exchange clause. And to lift the foreign exchange clause, we need to make some preparations. No government, no previous government, not yet, what Schucker said today, it's strange to me that he was the finance minister, so I guess he knows he was at the top of the government himself, is someone controlling those banks? How do we negotiate, how do we talk to the Croatian National Bank? Is she Croatian, is she folk or she serves only banks, or she is a separate segment and she is set up by international centres of power, financial power and she is not responding to anyone. I think that, if the government had been asked, begged, begged, asked her to intervene and seriously intervened, but now I'm going to say that sentence that they've always said to me, "It's used by populist methods to keep power."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106670	On behalf of the HNS club on the same topic, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, the Croatian government worked intensively and worked. She has proposed laws and will propose laws to address the problem of the Swiss franc. The Croatian government first proposed in November 2013 with a rate of 1st January 2014 and the Croatian Parliament passed the Consumer Credit Act where I set interest rates for credit users in Swiss francs at 3.23%. The parameters for the exchange of interest rates have been defined, and banks are obliged to clearly and unequivocally present all the elements of the interest and warn about the possible risks that we are discussing here. For existing credit agreements which are not defined the variable interest rate parameters, creditors must comply with the debtor's interest rate to determine the parameters and fixed margins as well as the interest rate change periods. These changes and additions to housing credits in Swiss francs bring closer to annuities for euro housing loans. Let's not forget, for the first four years those who took loans in Swiss francs had much more favourable annuity than those in euro and interest. So it's coming, this one's almost equalized the annuity. The Consumer Credit Supplement Act, which enters into force in 2015 immediately after the sharp jump of the Swiss franc, immediately reacts to the Swiss franc for credit users in Swiss francs, shall be set at 6,39 at an interest rate of 3,23 which shall stop the rapid growth of the Swiss franc course. Therefore, they are not half or part of measures but concrete. And right now in the Croatian Parliament we have a proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations in which we reduce the tight interest rate from 12 to 18.14%. These are not fire measures that are long-term measures for those in Swiss francs as well as for all credit users, and of course what is important for entrepreneurs. At the initiative of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Budgets and Finance held a thematic session at which the Association "Franak", the Croatian Association of Banks, the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice all responded, expressed their views and the Committee reached conclusions and addressed the basis of Article 224. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and proposed to supplement the agenda on which conclusions would be discussed on the issue of Swiss francs and on which certain decisions of this high home would also be made with the Government's announcement of a new proposal for a House Loan Act, which would cover all those who have loans or want to take loans for housing, which would simplify all procedures and even more strongly and clearly determine the parameters and ways only in one interest, and this is the protection of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also the stability of the financial system. Therefore, both the Government and the Parliament take great care of the problem that has arisen, take care and take care of all those who have loans in euro and kunas, as well as the stability of the financial system, all the activities involved in this problem have been very strong and powerful in solving, in adapting and facilitating citizens and so will be. This problem will be solved not by itself but by the obvious activity of the Government and the Croatian Parliament and we have called on the banks as the most responsible that they sign with citizens in Swiss francs and agree on an annex to do we do not know, but the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government will solve this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106672	Thank you. And on behalf of the Croatian Labourists on the same subject, the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106673	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We've opened this topic several times in the Parliament. There were several protests of the Franak Association because they are in a very awkward situation. The whole time it's being negotiated, promised, but no more concrete problem is being solved. We do something and we say we do, it's easier, we fix this course because after the Swiss franc course, clearly it was a necessary measure to take. But did we solve the question of the Swiss franc with that measure? No, I don't. As long as there is a currency clause, and a foreign exchange clause that has been used in a way that part of the bank's money has been drawn into its home banks in other countries that are very profitable and even in this difficult situation when a significant part of the financial placements that have been very bad and which have been unpaid and in the economy, but not chargeable and with citizens continue to operate very positively and there are no problems for them. Citizens with blocked accounts, citizens who remain without property, citizens who are in an unexpected situation, we, with some kind of fire measures, make this situation easier for them, we say, negotiate, resolve the issue, but as long as the currency clause is not resolved by then. Now, the problem with the Swiss francs, tomorrow we'll have a problem with the euro loans and we're not ready inside of it, neither the CNB nor this government, nor this Parliament to discuss it seriously and see if there is a payment coin in Croatia kuna then it should all be in kuna. It is clear that certain loans should also be changed, clearly that it should be made easier for those who are in charge sometimes thinking that it is different, because they were given some information that did not come to them so that credits could possibly be bad, but there were people who broke down, so we have so many citizens in the Republic of Croatia who are in an invisible situation. It's not the problem of citizens, it's the problem of those who let the citizens bring ours into such a situation. And on the other hand, when we talk about banks that make very good profits, then we have a situation in a way that comes information that certain bank leaders if they touch and when a mechanism is created to control their assets and theirs... are in an awkward situation when they have to justify what they've acquired and we're going to threaten now. The threat was made in another way when institutions in that part were combed according to how some property was acquired, and the property was known to have been acquired because I can say that it was not without the devil or part of the placement that went in very bad placements, perhaps that part of the money was extracted from the banks, and the question of how these money was treated and who benefited from it. And from the other shit when it comes to the exchange clauses and the economy, we've totally destroyed and brought it into one situation. and clearly there will never be any positive shifts until we talk seriously, and here on several occasions we talked about the cancer of this country's wounds as a foreign currency clause and until we can solve it by then we won't even solve this issue with Swiss. And any support from these people who are protesting and who are asking for their problem to be solved because they're in a stalemate situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u106674	Thank you. Now we're going to work on the adopted agenda. We will discuss: - Final proposal of the Civil Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 796. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115052	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for the Civil Protection System Act. This law regulates civil protection as a system for organising participants in operational forces and citizens to protect and save people, animals, material and cultural goods and the environment in major accidents and disasters and eliminate the consequences of terrorism and war destruction. Measures and activities in the Civil Protection System shall be carried out by the participants of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the central authority responsible for civil protection affairs, the authorities of the State Administration and other state bodies, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police and units of the local, regional (regional) self-government and operational forces of the Civil Protection System, the Civil Protection Staff, the Operations Force of the Fire Department, the Croatian Red Cross, the HGSS, associations, units, civil protection commissioners, legal persons and legal persons in the Civil Protection System. The Civil Protection System is developing on the already existing components and capacities of emergency services, adding competent and prepared capabilities with a higher level of legal personality formation, associations of citizens and citizens themselves. This legislative proposal is also in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the EU and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe is attached and it has implemented a conceptual harmonisation and standardisation with the situation in the EU area in such a way as to define protection and rescue in major accidents and disasters as a function in civil protection systems. The proposal for the Civil Protection System Act was first read in the Croatian Parliament in March this year. The final draft law on the civil protection system provides for the system and the action of civil protection, the rights and obligations of the body of the state administration, the units of local administrations and self-government, regional self-government, legal and physical persons, education for the purposes of the civil protection system, the financing of the civil protection system, administrative and inspection supervision by the implementation of this law and other issues relevant to the civil protection system. The Civil Protection System is set up at local, regional (regional) and national level and connects the resources and capabilities of the participants of the operational forces and citizens as a single unit to reduce the risk of disasters, provide a quick and optimal response to threats and dangers of occurrence and mitigate the consequences of major disaster and disaster. The reform of the existing system of protection and rescue on the basis of a new concept of civil protection system continues to launch earlier decentralisation of the system and the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, according to which civil protection is one of the tasks of the local self-government, by performing the direct needs of citizens. Civil protection is regulated as a system for organising participants in operational forces and citizens to achieve protection and rescue. The operational forces of the civil protection system are the headquarters of civil protection, the operational forces of the fire department, the Croatian Red Cross, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Services, associations, units and civil protection commissioners, co-ordinators at the location and legal persons in the civil protection system. The fundamental principle of the law is that each civil protection operating force independently implements the obligations laid down by this law and other specific regulations of their own part. It shall develop, train and benefit its own operational capacities and coordinate operational action with other participants in the whole system. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Executive Body of the Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government shall be directly responsible and authorised to manage the system of civil protection in major accidents and disasters and, for the purpose of coordination of the activities of the system, civil protection headquarters shall also be established as a professional, operational body at all levels. According to the experience of the European Union countries for management tasks, professional persons are defined while their leaders are responsible for the operation of coordination, planning, development and financing systems. Sources of funding of the civil protection system and the right to compensate for the actual costs of the operational civil protection forces to participate in the implementation of measures and activities in major accidents and disasters have been established. This allows the establishment of an extra-financial civil protection fund to provide financial resources for the protection and rescue and operation of civil protection operational forces in major accidents and disasters in such a way that financial resources can be transferred from one fiscal year to another for the same purpose at national and local level, local meanings and regional (regional self-government). Compared to the text of the Bill on the Civil Protection System, which was first read in the Croatian Parliament on 13 March 2015, certain differences were made in terms of nomotechnical arrangements, respect and acceptance of the proposals and opinions of individual committees of the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as amendments made by the promoters contained in the explanation of the final proposal for a civil protection system law. The proposal for a law on a civil protection system in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament had 97 articles while the final proposal for a law had 101 articles. The new Article 6 regulates the action of the Civil Protection System against regular action and prevention, planning, development, strengthening the willingness of participants and operational forces, operational action and the possibility of seeking international assistance. The new articles in the section of the infringement provisions are Articles 87, 89 and 91. They further elaborated criminal sanctions for the executive bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, legal persons and natural persons. The following significant changes have been accepted and incorporated. Two new principles of the civil protection system, the principle of humanity and the principle of prohibition of discrimination, the regulation of the establishment and management of a system of registration of victims, have been incorporated. It is possible for a civil protection officer to justify his absence in the event of prevention within 24 hours of receiving the call. It is prescribed that information to the public must be made available in due time and at all times. In cases of urgent and unscheduled implementation of civil protection measures where it is not possible otherwise to protect the population, material, cultural goods and the environment that an official of the public administration with special powers may issue a construction order without a building permit and subsequently remove or issue a building permit in accordance with a specific regulation. Provisions of administrative oversight have also been arranged. That would be the short part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115053	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115054	Dear Mr. Tonkovic, it is certainly necessary to support the law that is being passed today because it is one of the most important laws. I will take this opportunity to thank Mr. Pavla Kalinic, who from month to month, from year to year has sent parliamentary representatives of the application, begged that this law be passed, warned of problems that may occur, a disaster that may occur if we do not have this law, if there is no Civil Protection Act, if we are not well-organised, especially in times when natural disasters can occur, but some other terrorist attacks on the ground can occur. This is a very important segment, very important and that is why I say here a public thank you to Mr Pavla Kalinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115055	Second replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. So I'm going to say that I'm not going to share such great pleasure with everything that's written in this bill's proposal because there's not really much that was done from first reading to second reading, especially in the part that was shown and warned and constantly indicated. So it's obvious that the State Protection and Rescue Authority is the star of this law. She simply prescribes, appoints, coordinates, implements and ultimately controls it all herself, all in one. But I actually volunteered for a replica to point to another illogicality that is often indicated, which is obviously often repeated, and these are operational forces. So there it writes in the draft of the Croatian Red Cross operational force law, the operational force of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, and writes operational firepower. So I am interested in what is now the difference between the operational forces of the Croatian Red Cross or the HGSS and the operational forces of the Croatian Fire Department. Why does this term persist, in fact, the backbone and the foundation of civil protection, are voluntary firefighters. Why is the Croatian Fire Department not mentioned, or I will ask a simpler question. What are the real intentions of the Government against the Croatian Fire Department, given that we have the opportunity to see how all systems that are assembled are systematically destroyed. Is this some kind of message from a different type of Croatian fire department?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115057	Time. The replica matches Deputy Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115058	Dear Representative, however, the promoter believes that the Croatian Fire Department cannot be an operational force of fire and not a system of civil protection. Why? as it is not a unit within the meaning of the provisions of Article 2(2). The law on fire and there are no own units of fire, or forces which it would establish, finance and equip and which it would command. Therefore, there are no basic elements that could be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115059	Third replica, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Director. Here's exactly what I came forward after the same debate because this operational force, or last time we talked a lot about it, pointed out, argued here the reasons why the Croatian Fire Department should be in the operational forces and we see that in the second reading you presented it here, is not re-established, and now your answer is not fully standing because if that's why the chief of the Croatian Fire Department is the assistant chief fire chief for volunteering. By doing so, the Chief of the Croatian Fire Department is also the Assistant Chief Fire Commander's supporter of this operation. But the same thing is the operational forces of the Red Cross here, which is mentioned, which are operational forces, or this above management of the Red Cross is the same level as the Croatian Fire Department. Fire departments of the county are joined in Croatia, so fire commanders of the county are members of the Croatian Fire Department and these are the people who carry the activity. In other words, which is the second system, it might be a more interesting question, which is another system of fire that unites the entire Croatian fire department and which guides and directs and works in Croatian firefighting if it is not the Croatian Fire Community, or what it will be when there is no Croatian Fire Department. Or you see through this law you can't read what else is seen as a system that will unite the work of firefighters, maybe it'll be presented in another law, but unfortunately this law did not present it and I think it's a blow directly to the system and it's a breaking system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115061	Replication response, Deputy Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115062	Thank you. Dear Representative, under the terms of the Fire Department Act, the Croatian Fire Department does not command, it does not coordinate the work of fire departments on fire interventions. The part-time work of the Croatian Fire Department itself is also prescribed by the provision of Article 18(1). The Fire Department Act, which shows that the Croatian Fire Community is not an operational firepower in both operational and command terms, is its function to promote the interests of fire on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115063	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HNS club will speak for the esteemed Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115064	Honored Deputy President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. At the beginning of my address to my colleagues and colleagues, I will tell them that we are from the HNS club, specifically my colleague Blažeković and I, several times in the debates when it was appropriate to ask for such a law to be passed and we are pleased that this law is in front of us in the second reading and that we have it in front of us. Are we satisfied with the complete text that you will hear in the further course of the debate. In the adoption of all laws, as well as the final proposal of the Civil Protection System Act, it is important that we have a law that is functional, which is enforceable and which will give additional security to both citizens and property and fully cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia. What I'd like at first, given that it's appropriate to these replicas that have been said to have a feeling as a long-time firefighter, that the fire department is only used at those times when major natural disasters, when huge disasters are and when 60,000 volunteer firefighters, over 3,000 professional firefighters are selflessly working and saving. Normally, firemen are like that. What I believe is that this law should certainly give some due respect to all firefighters and the Croatian Fire Community and the system that worked in several different social political arrangements from the Austrian-Hungarian, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, New Yugoslavia, the Socialist Yugoslavia, in the time of NDH, too, in the time of democratic Croatian firefighters were the system that was always at the service of citizens to save lives and property. That is why I believe that in this law and the Croatian Fire Department as the roof institution of the system of all Croatian firefighters and voluntary and professional. I say it's somewhere the power of about 64,000 firefighters should find their place. I'm here in a conversation before today's debate with the Deputy Minister I've discussed this problem and I think we should certainly find a place in Chapter III. Participants in the Civil Protection System where the following participants are implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Central Authority responsible for civil protection matters in the text of the State Administration, the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police, below, the Croatian Fire Community and the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Such an amendment as the Croatian People's Party club will propose to the promoter of this, and I think in such a way we will give due respect to all that the basic and central force of civil protection of firemen gives to this society. What about this law? This law is excellently done, but what we fear in the Croatian People's Party in our club is that given the situation in units of local self-government that we have over 572 that there will be great problems in functioning if this headquarters is not firefighters, because in the old system, the old state and in the new democratic Croatia we had civil protection by 2011 and we knew how it worked. And I'm afraid that with this law that we support, we would make one inconsistencies, that of one system that functions immaculately, which was very firm in all systems, it worked and worked, to bring now one mistrust. So I think that these changes are very important, and if we want this law to be applicable, that time we have to look for those objective, real forces that can do so. Since I've been in two mandates and Chief of Staff of Security and Rescue and I know about how it works in cities, and I believe that in units of local self-government, lower levels, the municipalities are not doing anything. The moment we're from the fire force that we're fortunately in the city of Djakova, a large number, when we formed a civilian protection unit, then civil protection started to work. Why am I saying this? Because firefighters are taught the office, the command responsibility, the hierarchy. In all these people, this process is very long, and I'm afraid it's going to be him and dysfunctional. As for the importance of civil protection that plays a role and its main objective is to organise a civil protection system with all those elements that give quality defence, its main task is a good organisation. Everything else is left to those operational forces. That is why we have also proposed an amendment in which civil protection headquarters educates the state administration and the state administration can implement the way of education, but it should certainly be left to the Croatian mountain service to save the speciality, the Red Cross its specialty, Croatian firefighters its specialty. Because so far, as a society and as a system, we have not had any problems and objections to the operational training of Croatian mountain service firefighters and all other systems. That's why I think that as legislators and we who are going to pass this law, this law should be functional and most easily applicable. What should also be pointed out is that Civil Protection, the Civil Protection System, is also set up according to European directives, and that a very important component and very important role of civil protection in NATO's structure. In all the major disasters, the elementary disasters where NATO took part he paid great attention to civil protection. That is why we as a state, as a full member of the EU, must have a compatible system with both the EU and NATO. We also support that civil protection is of public interest to the Republic of Croatia and to the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The law is an excellent hierarchy from the government, the regional administration to the units of local self-government. Here with this law comes significant decentralisation and great powers towards local self-government units. It would certainly be good for these powers to be monitored and appropriate financial resources because I fear that decentralisation without accompanying financial resources will not bring the same results as we want. We're talking about an extra budget fund here, but there's no indication how we're going to fill it. What we think is very well done and that civil protection functionality will rise significantly to a higher level, I think, in Article 18, where it is said that two or more units of local self-government that are territorially bound can create a common civil protection headquarters. I think this is a good thing and that it would certainly significantly reduce costs and evaluations and organizations and all that more units of local self-government that have almost the same or similar conditions from geographical to all others should certainly be used and that part. What is good here is that, with this Civil Protection Act, it is accurate and envisaged that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a decision on disaster and it takes responsibility, but also that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, on a proposal from the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, request assistance from other countries, international assistance and in accordance with the provisions of this law and obligations of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts. Also, the principles of the founding of the Geneva Convention on Rights, on Humanity, on non-discrimination on racial, ethnic and all other matters are almost fully incorporated, based on the discussions in the first reading in Article 7. We feel that these are good things and that we should certainly do it that way. What we believe should certainly be respected is that the State Administration is in any case educating civil protection headquarters, but that there is no need to engage in the level of education on operational forces. Because operating forces, according to their statutes and their legal acts, have an exact workaround. What I would say is that given the weather and climate change that the Republic of Croatia will experience many major disasters, that because of the situation in the world and the instability and security and certain threats to terrorism, we believe in the HNS club that the level of action and adaptation to the underlying situations civil protection will have to react and take this job very seriously if we want to put this system into good function. It is also specified in Article 23 in the exact way in which the Chief is appointed, that this is essentially the obligation of the Executive Body. It is precisely defined how the representative body is involved. I think the law is good, I'm just afraid there's a lot going on in the implementation that depends on the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit. We here at the club don't think it's going to be from higher levels but of course at this lowest level, and where basically all things happen where both the elemental disasters and disasters and certain security threats happen, I think there should be enough wisdom and enough tact in the best way to use those potentials that exist. With the proposals of our amendments and acceptance, we will support the proposal for a civil protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115065	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Mandić, and on behalf of the club, we will support it that Croatian Fire Department must find its place in this law, but here the promoter has imposed one false approach to interpreting that the Croatian Fire Department is not an operational body because the law foresees both the prevention and preparation of civil protection which, in any case, the Croatian Fire Department is. So it's simply irrational reasons that are incomprehensible because, after the first reading, it didn't come in. On the other hand, you have said and welcomed this law and welcomed decentralisation, but you yourself have warned that this is very questionable since there is no financial resources. And when we translate that into one day's operational language, in other words, we can very easily get to the bottom of it and we won't, so we'll know who's guilty, and that culprit simply won't be able to realize what this law expects, so I don't think there's room for satisfaction with these solutions, and especially those criminal provisions that are relatively high from 5 to 70 thousand if I'm not mistaken, actually those who have the least money will probably be exposed to such penalties simply because they don't have the opportunity to realize what is expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115067	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115068	Thank you very much, Comrade Tudjman. Well, I'd say you had one lapus. You said the firemen's roof organisation is not a society but a Croatian fire community, okay but I know. What I said and in my debate, that decentralisation yes and responsibility yes but I said if we want success then we need to decentralisation the funds, we need to know exactly the sources. And that is why we welcome the adoption of this law, and we must put it in order that it is applicable. And if you followed the debate and I initially said that we want to have a applicable and functional law that will use all those resources that work, that we don't have to build anything new. I also set an example in our city when I was head of security and rescue headquarters, as long as there were some grounds for civil protection without firepower there were ugly problems. When we set up the people who learned how to function in the system, we had very good results and good protection. That is why I think we should also use this experience that we have and this law is certainly a step closer to harmonising all those EU gains that we need to apply and accept to the Republic of Croatia. But what you said about punishment has an article 18 that allows units related to them to have more than one program and one headquarters and everything else. So I'm saying that there's probably a proposer knowing the state of the local self-government units that went there because we had a legal obligation in the spatial plans of the local self-government units, so how many have not been made so far? If there were any mistakes, they weren't, but we're not keeping space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115069	Thank you. The next replica of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115070	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague of Mandic, you've found a good solution to Solomon's ability to possibly resolve this status through Article 8. And I support that, too, but in addition to that, we must say what we have already heard. And the question here is, is it the Croatian Red Cross and the Mountain Rescue Unit, or are these roof organizations, which are listed as a lack of HVZ? We all know they're not units, they're institutions. The thesis that the Croatian Fire Department does not have its own units does not stand because they are based on Article 16. The law on fire all fire departments associated with the Croatian Fire Community. In the case of firearms referred to in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council thereof. The law on fire is not part of the Croatian Fire Department and then the question is, what are they in the system, what is the alternative system? There is no such thing as the Constitutional Court's ruling because there were also some objections and complaints against the Constitutional Court that the association in Croatia was not an obligation to join the Community of Firearms and gave a positive opinion and a commitment that all units must be joined in Croatia by the Community of Fire Department under the Fire Department. The problem happened, it didn't happen, but it was normal at the time of war to centralize the system and that in 93 years it was passed such a law in which the chief fire commander entered the police, but it was logical that after 2000, the system was decentralised. Unfortunately, however, we have never been in a position to decentralisation the system and that the chief fire commander comes there amongst his army, which is in Croatia's fire community. And this has been manipulating and barata for 15 years and battles are fought around it and there is the whole key to the problem and that is why we today have no situation that we cannot get the Croatian Fire Department to be equal to all other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115071	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115072	Thank you very much, fellow Sanader. In my debate, I also made it clear about the position of the Croatian Fire Department as a roof organisation of all firefighters where both county and society join voluntarily and that the Constitutional Court ruled in 2002. Therefore, for this past work both for the system and for the formation of us as a club, we ask that firefighters find the right place because I here responsible in the Croatian Parliament say that firemen are the headquarters of civil protection and that firemen and firemen are also of public interest and that, according to all the laws and on fire, we have a certain way of funding. So I think that what we're doing here, we don't have to make any wrong moves towards fire, because it's fire that's not only in the protection and rescue, but also culturally affecting certain other activities in all the environments where they've worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115073	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mandic, what you were saying about fire is absolutely true, there is only one more thing to add, there is nothing to be taken away from what you were saying. Definitely like you said without fire, the civil protection system can't work. One small piece of evidence, a decade ago, went with his fire chief to visit a civil protection exercise in Italy. They've got a well-developed civil safety system, and after watching my fire chief practice, he tells me boss, we can do this all we can do is have no helicopters. So our firefighters are willing to do it all ourselves, we just have to organize them and we can't underestimate them. It's obvious that firemen are good for work, but when nothing works, they shouldn't be anywhere. So it could be said in the home dictionary. You also said it was a well-developed hierarchy. I don't agree with you here. I think it's a big problem and it's going to be a big problem just in the total vague division of locals from regional self-government, so that's where they appear in the same articles locally and regionally. What's going to happen is how it's going to work, we don't know, but it seems to me that it's hidden in this law that needs to be passed anyway, we're not talking about it. We're not talking about having, about a parasite, we're not talking about the State Department for Protection and Rescue, because if the law is going to be because of the fact that some state institution is setting itself up from above and that this is the fundamental objective of the law, then we missed it, and I think that's the problem of a large species.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115075	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115076	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Hrg. So what do you say to your replica? And my finding was that firemen were perfectly organized, that firemen were giving excellent results and that in my debate I asked that according to these results as a headquarters unit, operational in the civil protection system, that firefighters would get the right place. This is what I asked for, and I think it must be clear to the legislator of this law, and it must be clear to all of us in the Croatian Parliament. I don't mind if the civil protection system gets stronger, I don't have anything. If we have two so strong two things that work on security it'll be very good. But until that time, until civil protection can do anything at the expense of the Croatian Fire Department and its 63,000 firefighters. That's why I'm saying that here we are as parliamentary representatives of the system that works, which works so we can't mutilate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115077	Thank you. Tomislav Ivić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115078	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Mandic, we all agree that the law is necessary for different reasons, and that is where we will all agree on it. You said in your debate that one of the key problems would be the functioning of the system itself and I agree with you here. But an even bigger problem will be financing the entire system. And it is not good that this law practically all costs are transferred to local self-government units because equipment and the training of civil protection units is also the obligation of local self-government. And this is not the first case that laws are passed and costs are transferred to local self-government units. Are we aware of the financial situation of the local self-government unit? That a good part of the local self-government unit is on the financial outflow and that they need help, not laws that will additionally account for the budgets of local self-government units. How will they form, can they form, and how will they equip and train civil protection units? It is a key problem of this law that has no resolved system of funding for civil demand, and therefore if you do not have a resolved system of funding normally that will work very, very questionable. There should also consider providing a source of funds that we have a uniformly developed civil protection system throughout the Republic of Croatia, and not that the units that have money, and these are few, have developed civil protection systems, and those that do not, and that is the vast majority of local self-government units, unfortunately cannot invest in the development of civil protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115079	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Ivić, I agree with you in part of your replica and I mentioned it in my debate and specifically pointed out how much we want a functional system, that time we must secure the funds. Because we here centralize the system and decentralize responsibility, and we're not resources. Here in one section it is mentioned that civil protection that costs will cover, etc., but that is not enough for such a significant part of it we cannot finance with that money. Without reliable sources of funding, the law asks whether it should be put into service at all by that time. So as long as no quality means are provided because units of local self-government I am aware that this is an inability, but it is a good thing that Article 18 proposes how this can be tempered and which units to form, how the headquarters is formed, etc., etc. I will say again that I support this proposal for a civil protection system and certainly it is a step closer, but I will again point out that we must not allow any provision to question what is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115081	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Mandic, let's agree that well-organized civil protection is the necessity and need to preserve property and react, don't give God the kind of situations that happened last year, and when something like that comes up, there are firefighters. But then you said this law was great, and then you brought out so many fears that I feared for your health because fear is not good for health of course in that part. And then every little bit of fear, then that grade would be much, much lower, hardly something like that -2 if all those fears were. And in that part, you mentioned the first firefighters who are, of course, the duty of respect and all but also the expertise they show in those situations that they do. But you see, I was talking about it when it was the first reading and I said don't fix what's not broken. The firemen are doing well, the system is working well. But with special attention, I've somehow been monitoring the improvements that apply to local self-government units. And now you see how significant we are again in local self-government units, I noticed when Mr. Deputy said as many as three articles about sanctions apply to us. You see how well that takes care of us. Two days ago we had that thing about, a few days ago we had that environmental preservation thing, and it also says sanctions will be if we don't form it. And we already know in the units of local self-government we know the smell of hydrogen sulphur, we know it with these senses. And that's how far we're headed for that part. So there is certainly no need to impose on us what you and your colleague Ivić were talking about, and additional obligations and will surely require certain costs. Not to say, I'm finishing up thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115083	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic's fear is never good, in no state is fear good. What you as a doctor care about my health, you don't have to be afraid because I think the condition is very stable. What I would say to you is that we were like a club in our debate very concrete, very clear and clear with the amendments and that we are certain warnings we said that the law if it applies he is perfect but I am afraid that he will not be applicable and again I have said for what reasons. So you agreed to my argument and then you're back to me. So this is all what you say I said in my debate. And I'm glad you agree as head of the local self-government unit with a debate coming from the Croatian People's Party club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115085	Boris Kovacic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Most of it, i.e. almost everything you said on behalf of the HNS Club, especially in this part, I will also look back at the firepower that you have accurately and correctly noticed that it is sometimes in small, in municipalities, in cities, especially small cities and the only and organized forces that operate. The most common are the forces of the first response. And I'm thinking that we don't have such organized firepower that the first responder forces would then, of course, be an army when it comes to natural disasters such as floods and, of course, some others. Of course, the military is the security that guarantees and subjective sense of security for people when disaster occurs and can certainly always be counted on but never can we turn them into the forces of the first response. That's why I support everything that the team has said the more firefighters are organized, you've given one historic review. And I also believe that you share an opinion where professional fire departments are also concerned with the quality of it. Whether this should have been particularly highlighted and in Article 8 I do not know, the more Article 20 of this law provides for firepower as an operational force of civil protection or an operational fire force. So I think maybe in that sense it's enough. And in any case, you've welcomed the passing of this law yourself, so here I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115087	A fellow Mandic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'll repeat again now as a little parrot recently. Especially in front of the club, we pointed out to keep systems of public interest working. One of those systems is fire. What we can all be satisfied with and all proud that in the fire department is a spot education for different specialities and that it is good that in such a way we have a set system and therefore we need to make the most of this system because it is usable, it is adaptable, it is organized, it is good. And certainly this law should support and work on it to be both applicable and functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115089	Thank you. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Mandic, as I see it, supports the adoption of this law, which among other things regulates the conduct of state bodies, especially civil protection systems in the event of major accidents. Because I believe you know that this week, not so long ago, this week on Tuesday, the Parliament has discussed a safety law in the coastal exploration of hydrocarbons that has prescribed the conduct of state bodies in the event of major accidents, prescribed by... The directive establishing one coordination for the response and monitoring of potential large ones, not to mention the biggest accidents that can happen in Croatia, which is the oil spilling in the Adriatic Sea, the illegal procedure of the Croatian government, which leads to concessions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that I find it unacceptable that this Civil Protection System Act that speaks of the conduct of state bodies in major accidents does not refer to any of its articles, does not link to a law we have not yet passed. I think today will be a vote on the Security Act in the OBD in which the law provides for coordination which does not know this law, does not recognise it, does not anticiptise it in its provisions of the Security Act in OBD with the Civil Protection System Act. Just as this Civil Protection System Act does not recognise the coordination and treatment that we will now prescribe by voting the Security Act in ODA. What you'd say doesn't know right what he's doing left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115091	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mandic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, including in this civil protection system, is talking about major accidents and disasters, is spoken precisely and precisely, and how the state administration works, how the government works when it can intervene and it is clear. It is certain whether a tanker or one well if any accident or hawari occurs that it is a major disaster, that it will surely intervene by the state administration and the government and that we will ask for security assistance and it is true and it is precise. But we, regardless of these studies that are hydrocarbons and you have asked a question for that reason, are now that these threats are gone, we are under constant danger because the Adriatic Sea passes over the year 5-6 hundred, perhaps more tankers. And did we see that coming? I think it's just as dangerous as research. And that is why I think that this law is a step to prevent us from acting, to organise, to agree, and so clearly that all legislation that has been passed in the Croatian Parliament must have compatibility with other laws, because if that is not the case, then we do our job and the promoters too. But no laws have been passed, no, it's in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115093	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Party Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115094	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't think there's any dilemma with anyone here that the Civil Protection System Act is necessary. Every honour to the proponent from first reading to second reading has observed a lot of objections to the law itself, and he is in that part and repaired. In this first debate and replicas, certain problems that are present in the law itself have been pointed out, but the law is essentially a framework that provides for the practical organisation, treatment and organisation of civil protection. There is no dilemma at all that in the case of catastrophic disasters, natural disasters or God forbid some chemical incidents, and not to say the nuclear problems that could occur are very important civil protection and civil protection. It is clear that the way civil protection is organised is the question of how in this area affected by the elemental disasters the population will behave because the way it is trained, how civil protection does it in some way and calmly affects the population affected by certain elemental disasters. If it doesn't work then it's clear that there's a certain chaos, there's some misinformation, various semi-information, and there's a certain chaos. And that's why it's very important that we have civil protection in place, but what our colleagues have previously warned about before, we can have the best regulation under the law, if we don't have the means to secure it, then even civil protection won't work for us. And that's the thing that I wanted to briefly just learn that even though we've provided for civil protection here to finance and when it comes to the local unit, we need to know what kind of situation some of the local budgets are in, and the question is whether they're going to be able to allocate additional funds for quality organisation. On the other hand, the law itself says that in the event of an accident, and if it cannot be sufficiently ensured at a specific local unit where there was a need for civil protection to help those above who are, and that is the question of whether counties, whether at the level of the state and clearly that units of local self-government because of lack of financial resources that only what is least necessary will be organised, and that means that the question of quality, civil protection activities depends heavily on financial resources. Here is one option given in a way, it's extra budget funds, to be established at national level, but that they can also be built by local self-government units. But they can stand there and I think it's a bad solution again because it's clear that those who are in such a situation that they won't be able to further burden the population or certain companies in their area will not reach for that mechanism. And I think that this issue should have been resolved at national level, and then done a hierarchy of how it would be financed according to certain needs of the unit size of local self-government and not to say the county and according to the area, that's the other part that needs to be worked out through operating documents that stand. So the only fundamental observation within is that there is no dilemma at all that we should have civil protection, but if we don't have quality funding then it won't work out well for us and then we'll have a situation don't give God if there's any kind of harassing, earthquakes, floods or so on that we'll have something on paper again, but in practice it'll act badly. And then it has its own certain consequences through some way and endangering life and property further. But when it all works, when there's financial resources and when it's organized, then part of the protection is even bigger. And something else I just wanted to warn you about, and that's the question because it's civil protection that works in times of crisis. In the very part that speaks ultimately of certain implementing acts or regulations to be adopted by the Government and the Head of State Administration pursuant to Article 73, that should be done within a year. Clearly, it is as a deadline but I think in some way precisely because of the formation and functioning of civil protection that this deadline should have been shorter and in that part if it is necessary to amend and comply with this law. Then it should have been done in a way to go in a package and that we have as much as possible before practically these other sublaws. Because I say the law is a box one, and these other acts they give the essence of how to deal with what situation and without them, although the old acts remain in force which are not contrary to this law but we think that within that we should do so when it comes to the quality of civil protection to be done in such a way that it is possible to function sooner. Clearly, as I said, it is the deadline of a year but it is necessary to work on making that deadline as short as possible. But we have one other thing, and it's a question of local units on their territory that have to make their own assessments and then they have to make those assessments within two years of the adoption of these sublegal acts. We, when we see practically this law, will have to come into force, and we will have a practical period of 3 years to actually close the whole cycle when it comes to the functioning of civil protection. And I think that's a certain thing that should have been done better in a way that we have clearly prescribed laws. Because what I said at the beginning is that we will have civil protection, that there will be certain regulations and acts on how to act and how to function, and that will be a greater quality in protecting people's lives and assets. And there's no simple dilemma that we need this law. Clearly, the law if in part it turns out to be bad in practice should be done as soon as possible and changed. But I think this is a good way to go along with this part of my point that if we don't work out the funding issue in quality, then we're going to have something on paper that's not going to work out well in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115095	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115096	Thank you very much. A respected colleague of the law is a framework for how the system should function, something like that you said, and that's true. But the law would have to be very clear and it would have to be known exactly who would do what in this law. But it's not like that. Or I don't know how to read well. I repeat, to intertwine local and regional self-government. You don't know who's gonna do what. On the other hand, the question is raised, what have you noticed, will local self-government units be able to finance? He won't! He won't be able to finance it. Because from month to month, any changes to tax laws are taken from them. And instead of giving 70,000 kunas to some local self-government there in those provisions, we have that they will be punished with 70,000 kuna. And we expect it to work. So everyone wants this law, he's necessary, he needs it, but the kind of approach that he's doing won't work. Especially not if we do not do what has already been said in the debates, if it will not be based on the only system that works in Croatia, which is voluntary fire. And it is really unclear that such a thing is being thrown out of the law, even if it is said in the explanation that the Croatian Fire Department has no operational force. It's a really weird way of accessing and apparently some other intentions. I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115097	Answer, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115098	Thank you. Well, my colleague Hrg agrees, the law is a framework because the law says a lot of implementing acts that will bring what the Government, which is the head of the State Administration. And clearly until we have those implementing acts, the law is just a dead letter on paper. He can't operate in quality. But even if we had that and that we had a clearly resolved question in the law itself, that it was set up differently and that we had fewer of those other operational acts to be carried out. Yeah, I totally agree. The biggest problem is financing. And clearly those units of local self-government that won't have financial resources won't be able to even have practical means to train civil protection and clearly we'll have significant problems in this area because it won't work and don't let God come to some kind of disaster. And this, when it comes to fire, I totally agree in that part, so I didn't even say it in my speech, is it clear that that's what everyone said, because it's a very important thing because the firefighters are organized, they're professionally doing their part, and I think they should be the skeleton, the essence of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115099	The last replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Tušak and I noticed this part where you talked about finance and local self-government units. And of course, and that part I certainly understood where you said how much trouble you faced the local self-government unit and all that stood. And we know where the cause is. And those changes to the Income Tax Act there are billions and 800 million kunas simply gone. Let's be honest, it's been said and you see we're going to help solve it, a little amortize it to say it, but no, I didn't really notice that it happened, except for these instructions now that come to secure the tax refund in those units it goes. So you could say don't help yourself. But there's one more thing I'd like to say about the units of local self-government and that functioning, that structure you were talking about. Except for the part where I spoke in the previous replica where I said about the sanctioning that was clearly worked out, but also in this function there is certainly one moment. You see now these chiefs are very important, very powerful, they'll have such clear powers but they'll have to go to education, a certain education day so much, all of that will cost, all of it. There'll be a certain one that'll educate it, so they'll learn how to wear a bran, which profile tubes for, but they're people who know everything. There are people who all know who are in these firefighters, know all of the possible profiles of professional people, and ultimately these people confirm at the level of the fire department and at the level of society the chief confirms. So what else will he be able to learn at these seminars and tell him something significant besides what he knows very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115101	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115102	Thank you. Well, fellow Milinkovic, you as head of a smaller local unit know it best, so when it comes to funding, in my work, I said that extra- budget funds that give the possibility to set up, then clearly one who will not have the option will not even set up such extra-account funds and that funding should be resolved at the state level. And related through the needs of organisational units, counties, etc. to regulate the funding that must be as civil protection in order to be high-quality. And this when you talk about education, I agree education should always be and it must be implemented but there is also a part of the problem that I did not say in my speech, but it is a question of education and the population that should certainly be at a higher level related to possible natural disasters etc. which must be implemented through the school system and on another system to implement food without it or civil protection, it can be the best if the population does not know how to act in crisis times and how to behave, then we have a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115103	In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We all agree that we need this law, that we need it because this whole time without this law we were in one legal, or legal vacuum. However, if we want to seriously discuss this Civil Protection Act or assess this proposal, here is today in the second reading, then we need to start from the conclusion that this law or civil protection system is part of the national security system. On the other hand, I did not have key documents on national security, had no National Security Strategy, had no defined overall system of national security so that we could also see this proposal from this Civil Protection System Act that it was undefined in some essential elements, and even say in which, below the level of existing practices in some of its segments. In other words, the whole projection of this system does not have one consistent vision but, as already said in the debate, is actually the central place and this law and the system of civil protection provided for by the state administration. The fact is that from the first to the second reading that some changes have been made and these changes should be accepted especially by those which have been presented on boards, but some things remain unsaid, so just let me warn a few. This was about civil protection bonds that were all Croatian citizens from 18 to 65 years of age, that it was a record, but there was no projection of what it was, how many people, which would be the strength to say so in another terminology, how much would be the need to equip them for education, so it remained unarranged. And I can tell you right now why it was left unsaid. Because we don't have a complete system so we don't know what's going on with the manual, is it going to be or is it not going to be the one in reduced form that exists in what way is it in correlation with this civil protection system? It's simply because it's run under two different basics and it doesn't have any touch points. On the other hand, you have one fact that no one here today has said in previous discussions, and something that works, and the law here is not defined in any way. And this is the Croatian Army's Air Force what we call a canader or extinguisher helicopters that we know part of daily, especially during these periods of fires to participate in and when it comes to local fires and when it comes to what tends to be a disaster at a republican level. But here you have not defined how these forces are engaged. In the Civil Protection Act which defines the responsibilities of local headquarters and regional headquarters and state headquarters, it would be normal to know how to call and activate those forces. This is one gap that has not been resolved in this law, and the legislator has escaped from this obligation to define it. counterpart Bacic has already warned of the following problem that we have a coast guard that also has obligations to engage not only in disaster but also at sea, however it is not mentioned in any way that it would then and not be involved in these civil protection matters. Today, there has been a lot of talk about avoiding mentioning the Croatian Fire Department as an operational force of civil protection. The promoter here seeks some sort of modification or explanation that these are not actually operational forces, but forgets that the phases of civil protection are prevention, preparedness and response. And it can't be said that the Croatian Fire Department does not participate in both prevention and preparedness, regardless of how it was interpreted that certain fire companies are operational forces, and the Croatian Fire Department is not. Obviously, the slow is far deeper than what we are talking about today, which is what the vision of the national security system is, what is then the place of civil protection, or the Croatian Fire Department, because if this were to be postulated in this way then what is already said with nearly 1900 voluntary fire companies, with a power of 63,000 operational members, the whole system should be defined differently and different concepts. The minimum of what should be taken, but I say it will not be much improved either, is that within the framework of participants in the civil protection system in Article 8 of the Law and the Croatian Fire Department. But then you have another problem, pure consistency, then in the participants of the civil protection system are the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and in the operational forces they are not despite de facto being operational forces, and here there should be the Ministry of Defense as the only civilian component that can approve the use of the armed forces. Furthermore, we only have a few things that are not resolved and objections that are not respected, which is the separation of that administrative and inspection functions. It's just that, according to that people's "When you're sued, when you're sued," I just don't think it's a good word in this situation of one general poverty when de facto municipalities won't be able to, or local administration and self-government won't be able to fill it because of the lack of financial resources all they should have and what people are often aware of should be done, but simply there's not enough resources. So it will bring local and regional headquarters into an unspeakable situation. Furthermore, you have one more tendency to create a parallel information system for the needs of civil protection. The reference which was the last time that they were going to do parallel GIS in some way, that is the Geographical Information System Reason whether they could not use this or that they would use this or that, with the addition of classified data, I don't think it is justified from the information point of view because systems can be upgraded and with classification or access levels, access can limit access to certain data. Again, you have something that is unsaid and which is not, which we may think will be so but should still be precise and that is the law predicting that the central body of the civil protection administration exists that it is the state administration. But is this the State Protection and Rescue Authority or some new one, or I assume you're implying that this State Protection and Rescue Authority will be renamed or its structure redefined under this new law. But if that's how it's supposed to be, then it's here to say what deadlines, how it's going to be done, whether it's going to be, whether it's going to mean an increase, it's not going to, etc., all of that remains unarranged. The fact is also that the promoter has observed some of the comments that those State Administration's instructions to prescribe everything and everything, and among other things to prescribe education programmes and to prescribe the institutions that will do so, now in some way, I will not say it well solved but is simply clouded and there is no longer a sharp limit. But I think it should be in that this state administration should not, or cannot, be involved in the education of the operational forces listed in this law but only in the education of headquarters at all levels and possibly in this preventive education of the population rather than other things. What can be understood from this in conclusion, we have one incomplete solution, we have long waited for this law, however, it is unspeakable in its key elements. Among other things, the problem is if it were defined in another way, the problem would be why the law proposes the MUP and not someone else. In order to resolve the overall system of national security, if we had it, we could then justify this or some other solution, and this simply left it hanging in the air as an unarranged solution to this law. That's why I think it's big, what's already been said for local administration and self-government, everything's been transferred responsibility to preparation, training, has been transferred to local and regional self-government. The funds aren't secured. We can therefore realistically expect that in the event of some failure of this system, we will also have pre-recognizable and given culprits without having one long-term and one functional solution. And that's why I don't think this law in this form should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115105	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, you are absolutely right that this system is unspeakable. You mentioned that the operation of the headquarters and civil protection systems did not involve aviation interventions in the event of major fires, etc., etc. I'd just like to mention that we're establishing civil protection headquarters with this law. But I will repeat what I once said, this civil protection headquarters in no way, at least this law, has not established coordination between it and the headquarters, which is already organised in both the states and the units of the regional self-government and that is. At the level of the county, there are headquarters whose task is to intervene in exceptional sea pollution, where civil protection should certainly be engaged in difficult conditions to eliminate the consequences of sudden sea pollution. It is not a good system in which there are bodies that have an almost identical system of organisations, which have almost identical jobs when they react without procedures being put in place, procedures when and how one headquarters, one body, another headquarters, another body or other state bodies that are not in a civil protection system. I believe that this law should also be connected to the laws governing other similar bodies, other similar headquarters so that no overlapping would take place. Because I repeat when there are a lot of requests for response and there are no clear responsibilities and procedures and the way in which the action is normally not responding well and then it is really difficult to determine whose responsibility is due to an inadequate response to a major accident or any other disaster that may occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115107	The line matches the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115108	Thank you, Mr. President. So obviously what you have warned that this system of sea protection and coastal protection that exists or should be established, establish a relationship with the civil protection system only one segment of uncertainty. If you want, we could do a number of other examples today. Take, for example. In the case of the transport of dangerous substances, it is clear that there are rules in certain laws on how to deal with it, but if there are larger quantities of whether and how civil protection headquarters or the state administration should be linked, who informs it, how it works, there is no indication of how it should be regulated. I'm aware the law can't predict everything, but at least it has to open space one to find such solutions operationally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115109	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115110	Thank you, Vice President. Here's Dear Comrade Tudjman, you've well noticed this air force problem. In fact, it's amazing that no air force has been mentioned in this Civil Protection Act, but that's when we look at the whole law then it turns out logical because the Armed Forces are obviously a powerful lobby and a great power in the state and normally they can't be touched or questioned. But just for the record, here's the latest information that we've had a system so far when there's a fire, a big fire open space and... a request for planes if we go then our commander local there from the field over the county commander to just hold a warrant and that would go. But now the latest information is that it won't work like that anymore, it needs to be complicated a little bit, so now the local commander down through his commander will have to give a warrant and some military little python will come out or some military pilot will evaluate it and only then will an air force release permit be granted. So one more complicated system, and that more complicated means bigger fires, bigger fire ratios, long-term aircraft intervention because we had this perfectly organized with the MORH headquarters, the Ministry of Defense that was with the Civil Protection Staff, that is, with the State Administration headquarters and they were both giving approval, the planes were coming out. So I think it would be very important and we accept what you said, well that even through this Civil Protection Act, some statement that will give authority because we gave this Head of the State Civil Protection Administration such authority that I think even the Pharaohs in the Egyptian era didn't have in every sentence, and then through my debate, I will give you the exact facts of where you stated it, how much authority you gave him. But give him this power that would be useful if he could intervene there and only get rid of those fires faster. That's why I accept this to be put into law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115111	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115112	Thank you. You see, the problem is precisely in this uncertainty of the system because the law on the use of military troops is very precise, therefore this law should regulate it. And I said that practice so far was better than current legal solutions. On the other hand, you have one problem that objectively and these air forces that are used by canaders and these helicopters, in the morh, say that 1/3 of these funds are spent on these units compared to those intended for aviation. On the other hand, it would be if the lawyers went to play with these legal provisions here in these laws that legal persons engaged in the civil protection system were entitled to compensation and paid by local self-government. And what if the military were to issue accounts here would be a simple failure of that system, but I suppose the lawyers could prove it with this system. So we simply have a law that doesn't define the relationship between the use of the Croatian Army air force in a single word, and they are daily in use when these fires occur during the summer or at a time when these fires occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115113	The last replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, my colleagues said this part, I don't want to repeat it, but I noticed that one moment that I think needs to be further troubled, which is education, the education that you talked about, and I think that education is never enough, and in that part we will agree from the public to all those involved in this civil protection process. And in that part, I can very clearly say that in areas where, units of local self-government that this education works, for years it works perfectly within the framework of the fire department it is taught annually, and at other levels people are educated for both officers and conduct exercises, so training these skills in case God does not give trouble to the fire department and are extremely well and highly educated. Extraordinary good. Now, I notice that there is a new, different form of education that will now educate, of course, what it will cost, which will eventually, which will educate the leaders of that unit now and well, we are not running away from it, we have passed thanks to God a lot of education, but I hold that these people who are educated, who know their job, who are also appointed by the head of the unit of local self-government and who have confidence, full trust. So anyone who appoints someone as commander has confidence in it, and every chain works, is as strong as it is the weakest link. And in that part, I hold that there's no need to put extra burden on these people, extra financial drain them, and these people that we already have capable, educated for these jobs that in some way, now someone else is going to come to him and tell him that the paper is lighting up so much and so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115115	Replication response, Reverend Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115116	Thank you. The problem of education is a clear thing that something that doesn't work without, that has to exist. But I think it's important here to point out that this education that exists and that you were talking about is part of one solidarity because every community is actually a solid participator in helping others. And then to connect to this problem and to the question of voluntary fire companies, it's actually that core that gives, because precisely because they're willing not only to do it out of duty but also out of solidarity, and that's one form that's far more effective and better. Formal education is always formal, the law tends to do so, but should only be limited to one narrow layer of people and this should be left to this principle of solidarity because just about all of the very local communities operate on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115117	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Drazenko Pandek will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115118	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So we live in a world where we are witnessing from the news the possibility of acne and disaster is quite possible. And accelerated technological development and phenomena such as global warming increase the risk of accidents and events that can cause great material damage as well as human casualties. Although there are already forces, people and material bases for intervention in the event of such events in Croatia, it is obviously necessary to establish a civil protection system so that all existing resources that we have are formed and coordinated. They'd say that's exactly what this law does. It organizes existing forces, material resources and people but also adds some new elements to enable the entire system to react timelyly and efficiently in case of need. They'd say there's order in this area, too. So far, in exceptional circumstances, it has reacted with existing systems. So it's not that we didn't have anything, of course there was, that there were systems that were responding but obviously there was a need for coordination of connection and management. Let's say again, this is exactly the law that introduces it. Therefore, the central authority of the State Administration in charge of civil protection matters, which first takes care of the entire system, prepares the system, provides normative and technical support, and then coordinates the overall action in the event of need. The saying now also prescribes the obligations and responsibilities of persons for whom it is therefore natural to participate and who participated in the activities... to prevention and resolution of disasters and other events in which there is a need for prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So those events that can lead to great material damage and dangers to human lives and to the resolution of the consequences of such events. It's extremely good to find that the subject from where you are... to accurately establish the obligations of the participants in the system and therefore to repeat once more the introduction of order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115119	Just a little buddy, just a little bit. My colleagues and colleagues! My colleagues and colleagues kindly ask you to allow your colleague to present his debate without marbles, without private conversations in the hall, please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115120	Thank you. This law therefore coordinates and connects in civil protection operations of the Republic of Croatia and the police, units of local and regional self-government, civil protection headquarters, operational forces of the fire department, operational forces of the Croatian Red Cross, Croatian Mountain Rescue Services, therefore associations, units and civil protection commissioners, location coordinators, legal persons in the system that enters this law into the civil protection system. Therefore, for each of the listed items, a precise place in the system, jurisdiction and obligations shall be prescribed. We at the SDP Club particularly welcome the introduction of the planning element now. They'd say it's the element that may have been the most lacking of boredom. Therefore, it is prescribed to draw up documentation which therefore provides for planning activities in this civil protection system. We also particularly welcome the fact that it is predicted, that is, in the best possible way to regulate public information, which would have been said an element which has also been missing so far. So, we think it can be said that in a comprehensive way now, a system that will provide a guarantee that in Croatia in case of major natural disasters or disasters caused by a human factor will react rapidly, react effectively and to the least possible extent possible material damage and do not give God human sacrifice. They would say that this law solves one of the biggest problems in the current functioning of the system. I'd say that was the problem with this field coordination. There were some cases, one case that occurred to me was the case when the waste warehouse in the western part of Zagreb was burned some year ago. It could be seen then and through the media that coordination is missing. And I had a chance to talk to the people in the fire department who confirmed to me that then there was a confusing situation where they didn't know exactly who was responsible for what and what was whose jurisdiction. For example, there were staff from the City Office who tried to take over management, so people from the public fire department showed up and members of volunteer fire companies who were all invited in time but didn't show up there because there was no good coordination, they didn't show up in time. Contradictive information has emerged. Mostly the system didn't work properly, fortunately without the more severe consequences. In the case of large floods, these ad hoc stations were also established, and occasionally there were overlapping service levels. The people who volunteered were often left to themselves and the material assistance that was coming may have once been referred to the wrong place or not arrived in time and right now we are establishing a system that will put in place so far the shortcomings in all those in charge of prevention, reaction, and recovery to the least possible measure. We therefore find in the SDP club that this law was extremely necessary, that in a detailed way we define the entire system of civil protection and therefore welcome and support it in the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115121	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115122	Well, here's a colleague you've well mentioned several cases of major accidents in which there were problems in coordination, and that's exactly what sense and civil protection should be, and that's exactly why this law is being passed to solve crisis situations, solve problems in major accidents, not to solve the regular state of fire and other emergency services, and that's what we appeal from the fire department to, and I know people from other emergency services not to touch the regular activity of these services, but to just this Civil Protection Act as the very beginning of the law says, reacts and regulates the situation in crisis situations. Unfortunately, however, through this law, there are many things about regular services and regular service work, and that is the problem, and these are the warnings that we are making to try to regulate this law when civil protection is needed, and civil protection is needed in situations where these crisis situations are, when there are major accidents, when there is a need for coordination of many services in one small space and time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115123	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115124	Thank you. We were just saying that one of the advantages of this law is that it predicts preparation and planning. Coordination needs to be carried out before we can react properly. So how many operational fire parties are one of the parts of this system then clearly it must not only happen if it happens then we have to turn them on before and turn them on to be an effective part of the system. I don't think it was the intention of this law to subdue the fire department or to have someone come in there now to do the firework, I don't think so. And in other things, if there are any doubts about it, they certainly have and will be prepared, I hope that there will be a public debate on the Fire Department Act, or maybe it can be done if there are some doubts more detailedly arranged, which is then lex specialis, and then they turn aside any doubts if there are. But I don't think there are any under this law either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115125	Thank you very much. We've concluded the vote on all the points done. Now we'll continue the debate with the beginning. It's the Advocacy Club, but we'll wait for the gym to calm down. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to make it possible for us to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115127	My colleagues and colleagues, can we continue? On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115129	You can take the conversation outside the conference room.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115130	Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we who work overtime, I guess we'll be rewarded, but I don't know, it doesn't matter. I'll talk to you later, so we're talking about a civil protection system. And I will be very brief, given that the civil protection system that we all wish for, of course, the Deputy Minister and wears even the E code because in European countries, the system of civil protection is also commonly developed. Someone mentioned Italy here as a good example of the civil protection system, so a well-developed civil protection system. And here, in our terms, I would say that this is one legislative proposal that actually doesn't and can't possibly have according to the Ministry's position and the Government's support, one of the financial injections that might be even better regulated by this matter. And without what the members of a national minority say, without money, there's no music, and no money, no civil protection. Speaking of money, I have to mention something else. What is the difference between civil protection and civil society associations? Civility bears both names, however, 2 billion kunas are allocated to civil society associations and local self-government units around a billion, and by the state and government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the EU another billion. And if we only had 10% of that separation for civil society, here we have the National Foundation for the Development of Civil Society, so all that is civil society and that have even taken place along the way, so state institutions, services and ministries and through the units of local self-government and the European Union, so about 2 billion kunas of civil society associations that there are thousands. And whether everything is necessary today is not the order to discuss them, but certainly if we compare the importance of civil protection and some, so that someone does not misread me from the civil society association, so we now hear and see the situation with that association "Brave Child" where money and problems are talked about, even in court regarding the availability of money for unfortunately sick children where the dispute occurred. Of course it wasn't supposed to be. So this is not a criticism to the ministry, I'm talking about the distribution of money in the country. So what the state really needs, and even bears the name E this law. So, we're in the middle of financing that civil protection. And then we move on who's going to finance it, so education whether it's just gonna be commanders, so in the chain of command and civil protection, or all of them being together covered by education, and there's no money, and we're actually having a debate about it here, we're actually trying to figure out how to actually have civil protection, not pay for what we have. That's the basic problem today. We can also talk about 60,000 firefighters in voluntary fire squads and in public fire departments. So, as a fire department, as my colleague Mandic spoke of it. Of course, these fire communities are more developed and there is a greater tradition in the north of the country and, of course, even more in the east of the country than in the south and south of the country or in the coastal part of Croatia. But all in all, if part of the civil protection activity relating to fire departments is moved for the one, for the part relating to civil protection, it requires a single fold and new assignments in the fire department, in the fire department, in the fire department, whatever you want in relation to previous tasks and in the fire community. Who's the commander? Who's in charge? The state administration is writing. Indeed, someone here has noticed that we have a very common mention only of the state administration. He doesn't say for protection and rescue. Maybe we'll change the name later, the state administration doesn't know about civil protection or maybe somehow it'll be called differently. We didn't name it this bill, I guess it'll be sublegal acts that will prescribe it. I don't know that. But all in all, I would like to vote here, Mr. Deputy Minister, because we have and all the MPs know that Mr. Kalinic of the City Administration writes to us every month letters about a civil protection system that is relatively good in the city of Zagreb and paid for it all together and it is neatly paid. But other units of local self-government, well Zagreb is like the rank of county, regional self-government. It is hardly possible to single out any more significant means to develop a civil protection system. I got a letter from a gentleman and I don't know him personally who's talking about how even at sea we could even, if there was money and hire so-called. So he writes, we can also call them eco-fish guards, and that's what about seven hundred such people who would be in charge of keeping an eye out so there won't be an ecological disaster or be careful if anything comes up to warn them in the civil protection system. However, it is difficult to expect with this distribution of money so that we can accomplish it. But I can't keep this idea quiet and I have to say it here. Here's Mr. Stjepan Kravarscan from Bjelovar, he writes me a letter, perhaps writing to others in the Assembly so that it would be good to have such a service and to employ perhaps 700 young people, of course at sea. But even though he's continental, he writes about the sea. On the participation of the Air Force, of course, we must also have the approval or involvement of the Ministry of Defence which is at the end and when this flood was in Cvelferia in the villages of the county area as it is called Cvelferia after the 12th Regiment or more colonel Austrian Army, which was then placed in the County, about the role of an army which, until it came with its means, was difficult and imagined evacuation and it was the last thing it says should be used, in order not to say at all to touch the Ministry of Defence system should establish a good civil protection system. And of course there is no one here against either side, nor does it involve party commitment, and in connection with the civil protection system, but it is difficult to imagine when it says here in this material that the evaluations and sources of funds needed to implement this law are written as follows: "the funds of the budget of local and regional self-government are also provided in smaller largely insufficient amounts because all units of local self-government do not plan funds designed to finance the development of civil protection" as it also states in the state that there is no money. So how are we going to discuss the law if, in the assessment itself and in the source of the funds needed for law enforcement, it is said that this is inconclusive in view of the financial situation of the units of local, regional self-government and state administration, yes. I mean, it's nice and complex, but it's hard to do, and it's also a question of the effectiveness of such a complex civil administration if we don't have any investments and that investment is impossible given the tense budgets and the state, as well as the units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115131	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd like to replicate that part of the debate when you were talking about civil society and civil protection and funding, I'm sure you're not against the further development of civil society because it could be understood that you said that some of the funds could also be transferred for the needs of civil protection. However, when we talk about financing in general civil protection, it's not exactly that black you know, although I, by the way, advocate for prevention because it's been calculated long ago that one kuna or one monetary unit invested in prevention is paid seven times because if there are elementary and other accidents, it's seven or more times even more expensive. And the next question can also be asked, regardless of the state of finances of the local self-government unit, but how many times is this alibi, and for them, there is no means for it. And then we read in the newspaper 400 grand for some kind of car, let's say the press got a little puffy or something else, and there's no 20, 30 thousand kuna, for example, for training because it's usually about training above all. And on the other hand, I also remind you of Article 18 which allows for association, but we know that it is quite difficult because we know the relationship between the units of local self-government and where there really are legitimate reasons for this, and I am convinced that I know from practice that this could simplify and cheapen the organisation of the system in particular in terms of training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115133	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115134	Thank you very much. My fellow denominator, I'm sorry, Boris, you didn't listen to me very well. I said some civil society associations, so some of them, and I even said it again, and I emphasized it, so some civil society associations. In addition, when you look at the donations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so when you see that the Minister's own brother has been awarded 48 thousand or 70 thousand kunas, and then you join what's already called the Document, I might now be able to list here to hurt someone but I could tell you that on millions of kunas, and on several programs he gives to certain associations and to specific associations. And their work really doesn't take that long and we see what they're doing and what the role of these associations is. So, if we could reroute it a little bit, here's Minister Varga for the association he founded before he ate some kind of medical, etc. convention. Fifty thousand kuna. Look where all the money's going. So by a certain redistribution, by directing money for what is really necessary and what we all see, we have had a bitter experience with the flood in the county's flood, there could indeed be some money that could be rerouted into development and as you say in the education of people for civilians for what is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115135	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I only volunteered for the debate so that as long as I could as an individual an agent would make it relevant to this law. I feel personally, and my colleague Mandic spoke of it on behalf of the club enough, that this is one of the most important if not the most important laws we are making and I must say that when it came to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, when the bill came to me that my initial sentence in the discussion was final, that it was indeed that we came to a whole civil protection system law. Article 1 states that civil protection is a system of organising participants in operational forces and citizens to protect and save people, animals, material and cultural goods and the environment in major accidents and disasters and eliminate the consequences of terrorism and war destruction. And in paragraph 3 says civil protection is of public interest to the Republic of Croatia and the security of the Republic of Croatia. And these are the basic articles from which the whole law is being implemented in my opinion. In fact, security is the purpose of the state on liberal theory, but also in the modern practice of liberal democracy, we freely thinking individuals have joined ourselves in the desire to live safely in an orderly society and that is why we have created a state. We have left her part of our personal freedoms and we rightly expect her to be safe, legal, social, health care and other services of convenience for which we pay the same country through taxes and various grants. But security in all of this is first and foremost amongst ourselves what we use the police for and for the external threat, the police, the judiciary, and for the external threat of what the military is for. But there is also a threat of elementary and other major accidents. And orderly countries organise for such threats by the various names of the reserve service that are pre-prepared for all kinds of possible accidents. With this law, we in Croatia are setting up a civil protection system with the wish of all of us clearly not to be used but to be constantly in reserve, that no accident ever happens, but as we know it happens. The entire system shall be regulated through 101 articles of this proposed Civil Protection System Act. In Article 6(1), the Civil Protection System shall regularly act through preventive and planning activities to develop and strengthen the readiness of participants and operational forces of the Civil Protection System. In paragraph 2, the response of the Civil Protection System's operational forces continues to work on the operations of the emergency services and regular forces of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, when they are unable to prevent the creation or development of a major accident and disaster. The management of major accidents and disasters requires the inclusion of all entities of importance for the response of the system and therefore the civil protection headquarters at all levels of civil protection systems are justified. And there it is now further, through the entire law is being developed the entire system pyramidally from the top, from the base floor to the level of units of regional, regional self-government. And by my conviction and fellow Mandic, in the name of the Croatian People's Party club, the Liberal Democrats spoke of it, it is well and quality-based, well and quality-based and gives hope that if the entire system of civil protection is applied and I personally believe more than and fellow Mandic that it will be successfully applied at all levels gives hope that it could be one service that would give us, to all of us, to all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who would give that dose of security that we know that someone here thinks of any accidents that might be possible, and may always happen that there is someone ready to react immediately to it. We have seen what happened during these major catastrophic floods in Posavina where at the first moment, regardless of the phenomenal reaction of all citizens, etc., but in the first moments it was just missing, there is a system of civil protection that would unite the heads and put and have that very command structure when it is most needed and these are the first moments of the accident, one command structure to ease people's suffering and to prevent some major tragedy at the moment, perhaps something even stronger could be prevented that we had one system, a developed system of civil protection. But when I say this with floods, I should certainly say that this disaster has shown the unity of this society, it is necessary to mention unity again, society at times when it is most necessary. In fact, this has already happened once, in moments of attack on the Republic of Croatia by Serbia and the Yugoslav Republic, as it was then called where the Croats are, regardless of all the differences that exist, the differences shared between us in any political or other sense where they united together and with this great desire to defend ourselves in this accident, and in this way we all eventually came together to an independent, or independent Republic of Croatia. And clearly this year, the citizens of Croatia without a spare solidarity and stopped with the unhappy in Gunja. We remember that mass youths came after the flood, came to clean up there and help people get by as quickly as possible and get through those first accidents. And I would like to say, if you let me here, in any event, that the enormous efforts and the successful efforts of this government, I am convinced that one of the masterly done jobs was a recovery, that the whole range of huge affairs related to the problems of the citizens in Pavina, the flooded areas, where this government has done a masterly job and in this incredibly short period of time, relatively extremely high quality, and even looking at European standards or German standards, because in the short run, it has renewed its areas, flooded areas than Germany has done in the wake of its recent catastrophic areas. I am pleased that this law has come to the benches of the Croatian Parliament at all and I am pleased that many of the comments we have made together regarding the law itself and that these changes have been made from the first to the second reading. And I support Mr Mandic's amendments to both the HNS and the Liberal Democrats, and I will personally vote clearly for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115137	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115138	Final draft law on the civil protection system, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 796. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative, Ivica Mandic. I would like a representative of the government of the respected Deputy Minister of the Interior, Evelyn Tonkovic, to give us an indication of amendment number one, the respected representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115139	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The government does not accept amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115140	Explanation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115141	The final proposal of the Civil Protection System Act shall regulate the system of civil protection which is made up of the participants of the system. These are the operational forces of the system and the citizens. Article 8 lists the participants of the civil protection system and makes them the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, in particular, with central government and decentralised state bodies. In addition to those bodies, the participants of the civil protection system are also the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police. The reason is that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and special regulations have a defined chain of command when using their capacities, which is different from the chain of command in the civil protection system. As regulated by the provisions of the final draft of the law, the potential conflict of competences that individual bodies have in situations where the capacity of the Armed Forces and the police should act together with the operational forces of the civil protection system in major accidents and disasters is avoided. The Croatian Fire Community and the Fire Department's operational forces are associations of citizens who possess operational capacity to operate in major accidents and disasters and, together with the capacities of other operational forces, are normally regulated by the specific provisions of Chapter IV. this final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115142	Appreciation of the esteemed applicant for the amendment, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115143	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, I must say, I'm disappointed and sad with this decision and this kind of reasoning that you've made. What I'm going to tell the public is that the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens know the value of fire, and they know what firemen mean in elemental disasters and in elemental accidents. So firemen and firemen are good when they have to carry out certain obligations, when they're saving people, and when it comes to creating who's more important, who's the most important then we don't have a fireman. With this proposal and the rejection of this amendment, I am disappointed and I demand a vote on your refusal of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115144	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of Honored Representative Ivica Mandic No. One the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment No. Two of the same respected MPs, Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115145	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115146	Explanation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115147	It's about one general provision. All the amendments proposed by the amendment shall, in a reasoned manner, be accompanied by the regulated provisions of Article 64(2) of this final proposal, which reads: "The operational forces of the civil protection system shall carry out the training of their members by the basis of the powers laid down in the specific rules of their work." So the law does not prescribe that only the Central Authority of the State Administration in charge of civil protection matters has the power to train all operational powers of the civil protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115148	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am also expressing my dissatisfaction because in my amendment it was that the Civil Protection Staff, in which the Mountain Service and the Red Cross and the fire department and all other operational forces can and should be trained and everything else within the system and the fire department and the Red Cross are done according to the laws. I will again say that I am disappointed in the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I unreservedly support, refers to fire. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115150	We'll do it now. Please vote on Amendment No. 2 applicants of the Ivica Mandic amendment which the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment No. Three respected MPs, Ivica Mandic, third. Deputy Interior Minister Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115151	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115152	An explanation, deputy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115153	In the context of reasons for not accepting amendments No. 1 The Croatian Firearms Community and the firepower are not a participant of the civil protection system, especially from the category such as by giving reasons to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, the capabilities of the Croatian Fire Community and the operational forces of firefighting in relation to normative arrangements have been processed in a similar way to the capacities of all other operational forces of the civil protection system with the maximum protection of their autonomy in relation to the position of civil protection headquarters at all levels protected by the provisions of Article 28, which reads: "The operational forces of the fire departments and other operational forces of the fire department are certain specific rules governing the area of fire. The operational forces of the fire department are a fundamental operational force of the civil protection system in major accidents and disasters and are obliged to act in a civil protection system in accordance with the provisions of specific regulations governing the area of fire-fighting of this law, civil protection plans of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government and the state plan of action of civil protection." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115154	An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I read that firemen are a fundamental force of the operational forces of civil protection, but only in the case when to work, when to be on the ground. There's no fire in all the other elements. I'll say this is about 60,000 volunteer firefighters and over 3,000 professional firefighters. They didn't deserve this treatment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115156	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. Three respected MPs, Ivica Mandic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. By doing so, we have exhausted the amendments of the respected representative, Ivica Mandic, and we no longer have them. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 13 against the adoption of the Civil Protection System Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the HRT Supervisory Board. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You made the motion. Does the Proposer want it? He's gone. Young Novak. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 86 for, 2 votes are abstentions and 1 vote against a decision on the appointment of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT appointed by the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Congratulations, good foundation for good work. Thank you very much. We've concluded the vote on all the points done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115158	We will discuss - Proposal for a decision on the declaration of ′′The day of protected Croatian indigenous products′′ The motioner of the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Ms. Snježana Spain want to explain the decision? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115159	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. In the Official Journal of the European Union of 14 April 2015, Commission Implementing Regulations 580 concerning the entry of a name in the Register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications for the product of karsk prosciutto has been published. This has made karški prosciutto the first Croatian product whose name is registered and protected by the designation of geographical origin in accordance with Regulation 1151 of 2012 on quality systems for agricultural and food products. The registration procedure and the protection of the name of agricultural and food products of one of the designations provided for in that Regulation by the designation of origin, the geographical indication or the traditional speciality guaranteed is a rather demanding procedure which takes several years to require significant efforts by the manufacturer in the performance of registration and protection. Autochton agricultural and food products can successfully compete on the Croatian, European and international markets with their technological, food and organoleptic specificities, quality and speciality. The Day of Protected Autochtonic Products will give greater emphasis on the importance and need of the protection of indigenous products, and by organising various events such as educational workshops, conferences, evaluations, tastings and the like. On the occasion of the first registration and protection of the name of the Croatian agricultural and food product, karsci prosciutto marked with geographical origin at European Union level, please support the declaration on 14 April On the day of protected indigenous products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115160	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Left-handed fellow Branko Vuksic. He's not there, the club's losing the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115161	... Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we seem to be running out of conditions I would say, and I'm a little out of this agricultural topic, but for a good topic we should always have strength and will, so in this sense I will gladly accept and, of course, we will support this proposal to declare the Day of Protected Croatian Autochthonous Products. But I would... also say that if business were possible I would always say that I would raise the level of alert at the Ministry of Agriculture to the highest level because the situation is not so great, although I believe that this measure will certainly help since you know the deputy that these days the contracts with the milkmen are being terminated. I think it's right in the Belarus-Belgrade region that it's the same very important information that we need to highlight. But I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I would really focus on this topic that's very important, and I believe that it can help in this part of course as much as possible, even though I read one piece of information from the head of the agricultural agency that here is how little data you fix. Apparently 9 cows, I just remembered that information to get the dairy cows to rise in the production cycle. Here's a little bit, but God forbid there's more. However, the key element of the protection of agricultural products with designations of origin and geographical indications is the provision of uniform access in all Member States providing fair competition between the producers of the products bearing these labels. The proposal to mark the Day of Protected Croatian Autochtonic Products on 14 April, the day on which the European Commission Implementing Regulation on the entry of karst prosciutto in the Register of protected designations of origin and geographical origin is published, will hopefully give us an additional incentive to further protect our agricultural and food products. Although at first sight it seems that it is only about marking products with designations of origin and geographical indications, the subject of this decision is a much more complex nature. Here we are not just talking about the added value of agricultural and food products, we are talking about here and about the impact on the awareness of consumers of these products on the clear declaration of their origins as well as how they produce, process or prepare. Ensure product visibility, their branding by protecting the designations of origin of the geographical origin of the niche are under which a large number of Croatian agricultural food products could be subjected. The limitation and disadvantages that currently represent a limiting factor in the placement of Croatian agricultural products, I mean here at high cost of production, incompetence, poor link between agricultural producers, the restrictions arising from the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has as a member of the EU with regard to the freedom of movement of goods in the large EU market could well be compensated for precisely the protection of our agricultural and food products with designations of origin and geographical origin. And the objectives of protecting the designations of origin and geographical origin are to ensure fair profit for farmers and producers, for the quality and characteristics of each product, by providing clear information on the products which are specific characteristics related to geographical origin which enables better consumer information when making a decision on the purchase of these products. The protection of the name from unauthorised use has a long-term impact on the maintenance of production in the field of product protection marked with designations of origin or geographical origin. We can say that regionalisation could be said to be a tool to fight globalisation, a tool that activates all the activities that follow after primary production, so we come up with a social aspect of keeping the population in the rural areas that I've been talking about, which I've talked about on many occasions. I think it's very important to stress. All of these have also been identified by older EU members who count the amount of products with protected tags, numbering several hundred. France has over 400 products bearing protected labels. On April 14th, the Republic of Croatia received first protection from the geographical indication and further confirmation is expected by the end of July, according to the announcements. Here, therefore, by supporting this decision, we support the adoption of this decision, we hope to increase the number of Croatian protected agricultural products in the register of protected designations of origin and geographical indications. And now a few more sentences about my specialty, which is the milk I've talked about many times. The European Parliament's Agriculture Committee supported a report in June on the future of the EU's milk and milk products sector, a review of the milk package, as it says is also awaiting first reading in the European Parliament. In light of the problem these days, I would like to warn our milk producers about what I was talking about in the introduction to break-up of these contracts, that part of the report in question also refers to protected designations of origin and geographical origin, i.e. to refer the proposal to the European Commission for more active inclusion in the opening of new markets in third countries and to the removal of trade barriers, as well as the Commission's incentive to take account of issues related to protected designations of origin, geographical origin and traditional specialities guaranteed, provided that European standards and quality and quality and quality and safety in production are valued in the consumer offer. It is also called on the Commission to simplify access to these systems and to reduce the administrative burden related to the application and approval of protected tags and to aimly encourage marketing activities for these products. Calls for, inter alia, the Commission to simplify the rules concerning the regulation of the offer of cheeses for protected tags, in particular when it comes to minimum requirements for the approval of these markings. Therefore, considering these recommendations from the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture for the milk and milk sector, it is easy to conclude for only one part of the large agricultural sector that the area of protection of products on designations of origin and geographical origin is enormous, and for the Republic of Croatia, with a well-designed strategy for the development of our agricultural production, is an extremely potential area. That is why we propose, we hope for the sincerity of the intention of marking the days of protected Croatian indigenous products and I call for a high positioning of this type of production in the strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture I call for proactive action of course and the Ministry of Agriculture at all stages of product protection from national to European. Because as we've heard from the Deputy Minister, the producers are meeting. I believe that they too are really facing major problems, so here I believe that the help of the ministry will certainly come in handy. And I'd still just like to mention one more question, the thing that's kind of intrigued me a little bit, I'd say, and that's about the very name of the decision-making proposal. I would like to point out that you might want to think about another expression of the words of indigenous products. For what? Reading Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 1151 of 2012 in quality systems for agricultural, food products, and based on which the first Croatian food product is karst prosciutto protected by geographical indications, there is no mention of the term autochtons anywhere. Although this expression has become domesticated in our daily communication, so to speak, and we have adopted it in use. Perhaps the name of the proposal for a decision to mark this for the Republic of Croatia should be attached to us with the name of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to which the decision is referred, but should also be adapted to the expressions of our native Croatian language. The term autochton is of Greek origin, and I suggest that in the spirit of Croatian language the use of the words of the original products implies that this term refers to all products marked with the designation of origin and geographical origin in accordance with the above-mentioned Regulation. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115162	And finally, Deputy Minister Mrs. Snow White Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115163	Thank you very much. Here's a very brief attempt to answer some of the facts that have been made, or findings. The expression autochton and alochton is actually domesticated in Croatian, from forestry, from hunting, especially agronomic professions where indigenous plants are those that live on, are originally from Croatia and... have been entered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's already been an integral part of Croatian for decades. So the term itself is not foreign. As regards the findings you have said about the European Commission and the milk package, it is true that the Commission has been tasked by Member States to protect the interests of Member States relating to protected designations of origin in the dairy sector and raw materials. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia does not have any products protected in the dairy sector, so neither cheese nor any dairy product that we could have made of curtsy, different products, acidic milk and all that our agricultural producers produce. And we did not prepare them before entering the EU because unfortunately there was a legislative framework which we in the Republic of Croatia did not apply and we did not take advantage of the opportunity we had to educate our producers because protection is submitted by a producer association for those producers that produce the same recipe. And above all, there is a great effort on them, so that they are organized, to prepare project documentation. In the last two years, the ministry has provided budgetary resources to assist in preparing the project documentation. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case before. The procedure is long-term, it starts with national protection at national level and then the documentation is sent to Brussels. Brussels or the European Commission shall verify the content of the dossier, publish it on the European Commission's website and all Member States may object. You have probably heard and informed that we had an Istrian prosciutto with Slovenians and that we went to regional protection, so both Slovenian producers and Croatian producers as a joint product Istrian prosciutto. And that's why it takes a long time. Unfortunately, we did not prepare ourselves before EU entry, we did not educate manufacturers because the result of the protected products is actually branding Croatia and the region because each of our regions could in fact become a gastro-no region recognizable region with its national products, with its wines. Two years ago, we launched a national plant gene bank. So Croatia has 70 indigenous varieties, I say indigenous because it is common, 70 indigenous varieties of vines. Unfortunately, we haven't done the same thing, we've worked on Chardonney, Cabernet, but there are our islands, there are regions where indigenous varieties are grown, where we could have been here from stilts, mills, via sorcerers and everything that makes up a region and our tradition connects with tourism and additional value to give to agricultural products and food products, and thus make it easier for our agricultural producers to place more value on the market than we unfortunately did, we became a raw material country. So all our investments went hugely into raw materials, in the production of milk, not in the production of dairy products. The privatisation of the dairy sector, I think we could talk about for a very long time, and some know very well how some dairy in Croatia have privatised, what kind of market we have for the purchase of milk. And we are trying to tackle this situation as much as we can within the framework of the common agricultural policy. And I'm asking for that understanding because we all have to respect the accession treaty together. The Republic of Croatia cannot grant support to farmers and interventions in the dairy sector that are not in line with the common agricultural policy. If we are implementing any measure, we must request the approval of the Commission. The European Commission, which is not in line with the common agricultural policy, if the European Commission approves it, we can do it. I think we must finally, once, tell our farmers what we can do together, but we should also tell them what we missed together. So we haven't prepared them for some things, this is an extremely important thing that we could all do well together. Here I do not know of meat from the Međimurje tiblica, from Zagorje specialties, from Slavonian specialties, from our Dalmatia where in fact every island we have original and protected breeds, brač sheep, rapist sheep, paška lamb. So we're rich in wealth that we didn't protect, and then you remember very well what happened. That lambs were imported from Australia or from other markets which were declared to be paška or any other. And then our agricultural producers were in an unfavourable position because they had a competition for their product that was so called for the product and it reduced the price of the product. Because we didn't protect the product. I don't think we've prepared them, I think now is the time for all of us to start working on it regionally, so also in Podravina, from our regions recognizable and that we can soon become recognizable. I'd just like to say that in France, you're right, there are over 400 protected products, of which 200 cheeses. I stress in the end that Croatia does not have any protected cheese or even paška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115164	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't mean to rephrase it, but I'm glad that the deputy lady made me a little aware of this problem, but I doubt our farmers would be able to help out what was or wasn't. In all this I asked that in some ways everyone get more engaged and as far as Podravina is concerned, I am the first, in my municipality was founded the first dairy producer organisation Drava-Sava in a way that naturally improves this important area. And that's an example of how you can do quality work. I in my domain as much as I can under these circumstances, in this time as I can do maximum. Now, on you, you are stronger, you have a stronger blow, they expect greater achievements from you, greater results, and that is expected of you. I from mine, I within my jurisdiction from those who are possible of course to those aids in agriculture do everything we can and surely have one respectable production, respectable, is that it may need to be sophisticated in some other way but God my dear people have been doing their projects certain and suddenly and larger companies are doing and suddenly it's all said if it's now falling price, now this, it's unregulated you understand? And that's why you're expected to do your part of the job, and I'm not going to do it. I do my part very well as I can, as I know with the desire to preserve that rural space I was talking about, to preserve the village, to preserve production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115166	Jakša Balojevic's replica. My colleague Milinkovic, please turn off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, here is really full support in this sense that the Resort Ministry and State as a whole make all of them for other products that really have their position on the market if we know that our coast is beautiful and too long and wide and we know what it means for the entire economy for our Croatia. But there's something I'd really like to know, and since it's not mentioned today, it's about a braid prosciutto. I think the dredical prosciutto is so famous in the world, I have information that recently one group from America had ordered so many prosciuttos, that the total production of all kinds of prosciuttos in Croatia couldn't deliver and the order failed. So I don't know if you guys have any information about whether the procedure went in to protect yourself, and I think it might be the best prosciutto in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115168	Snowy Spanish response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115169	Here it is, I can confirm, therefore, that dredical prosciutto is at the stage of the European Commission's consideration. So it's protected at national level. With agricultural producers we have made protection, project documentation has been prepared co-financed. The next phase is a post on the website so that other members may eventually object and we hope that the dredical prosciutto will also be protected at the EU level. Here I can take this opportunity to say that soon the publication and the following protected tags are expected, which is Neretva mandarin, extra virgin olive oil Cres, ogulinic acid cabbage, Istrian ham, baranja tower, liqueur potatoes. We have 17 products in the process. I note that in 2011 only 3 were protected at national level. In these 3 years, we have managed to launch a procedure for 17 products at EU level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115170	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115171	Proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Protected Croatian Autochthonous Products. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 113 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the decision to declare the Day of Protected Croatian Autochtonic Products in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115172	We will also discuss - a)The proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, - b)The proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The proposed decision shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 23. Law on energy regulation. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the report at the session. We have a proposal representative with us. I don't need to explain. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. And now let's agree on a follow-up session. Thank you very much. We will continue on Tuesday 7 July at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The proposal for the agenda is on the Croatian Parliament's pages, so I ask the board presidents to convene committee meetings and do what is on the agenda, as we will begin with the points that are today included in the agenda. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 14.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-03-0.u115173	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as well as a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 101 votes for, 7 abstentions and nothing against a decision to resolve as proposed by the motionary. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and please vote on the proposal for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 84 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 14 votes against a decision on the appointment of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
