ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99064	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our session. We will discuss - The final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 775 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, just a moment to call the Proposer. On behalf of the proposal, Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99065	Thank you, Vice President. I apologize to one more parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia have common interests in co-operation in the area of planning and implementing measures to protect against earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, inland navigation accidents, radiological dangers, as well as industrial and other disasters. They also need to develop mutual cooperation through professional training and training of members of the Protection and Rescue Units, as well as the organisation and maintenance of joint protection and rescue exercises, cooperation in the development of the production of protection and rescue equipment and exchange of scientific and technical data and other documents essential for the protection and rescue. The result of the desire to further deepen the co-operation mentioned in a way to regulate issues, co-operation conditions, as well as mutual assistance from the protection of disasters is the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters signed on 15 July 2014. The aim of this agreement is for the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia to assist each other in the event of disasters when a party seeking help is unable to counter the consequences of disasters with its own resources. The Act approving the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters proposed under the emergency procedure confirms the Agreement in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99066	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99067	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in preparation for the debate on this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, I was thinking about how to actually open and start the debate, assuming that the law would go before 10th in the debate, but I still decided to talk about what I thought I was talking about two weeks ago. So two weeks ago we had the 22nd anniversary of the release of Maslenica and 22 years ago the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia were in not so good relations in a civilized manner as they are today. So when you look from that aspect 22 years ago when the two countries were literally seen over the target, 22 years later we have a situation that the two states need and have to cooperate in exactly these areas, such as disaster, such as a civilization threat, or as two normal states. So in that part, I would remind from this place and in a way that last year, in May and the Republic of Serbia and the Vukovar-Srijem County, so at the border with the Republic of Serbia, there was a severe catastrophic flood and that actually international factors estimated that the co-operation and professionalism of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia were indeed at an envious level. When it comes to, therefore, this is not, of course, the first agreement or legislation to confirm an agreement in this area on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters, I would like to remind you that one of the first agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with the country with which it borders the agreement on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary of '98. A year. Then we signed a similar agreement with Slovenia in '99. A year. After that with Montenegro in 2008, with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011. Also that year with the Republic of Macedonia and in 2012 with Albania. As already mentioned before the motions, the Act on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia will, in fact, allow the provisions of the Agreement within the meaning of Article 141. The Republic of Croatia is becoming part of Croatia's internal legal order. The result of the desire to further deepen international co-operation in a way that primarily regulates cooperation issues as well as mutual assistance to protect against disasters because we have seen that such an agreement is actually extremely important to define especially on the experiences both countries have from last year of May. Therefore, the mutual interest in mutual co-operation in the area of planning and implementing measures primarily concerns flood protection, earthquake protection, radiological hazard protection, and on the other hand, in inland water accidents due to the proximity of the two largest rivers in the Republic of Croatia, so Sava and Danube which, as we saw last year, I must stress that have caused major problems. Of course, there is also a question of protection and protection, i.e. preventive security from fires and industrial and other disasters. Therefore, the need to develop mutual cooperation between the two countries is defined through some five areas. So the first area would be through professional training and training of members of the unit for protection and rescue, which is actually quite normal. So this is about civil protection, about the mountain rescue service of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the co-operation of the humanitarian organisations of the two states. Another area would be to organise and maintain joint rescue and protection exercises, and here I personally see the advantage of the Republic of Croatia in this area because it is an EU member, on the other hand, in this area we should also be our own leaders. So Serbia should be interested in working with one EU member. The third area if we can call it that is co-operation in the development and production of equipment for protection and rescue and from this aspect I see actually a chance for our businessmen, for our craftsmen who can do production service, so such equipment. And we saw a few days ago there was also a contribution to Croatian broadcasting about how a smaller company actually supplies military equipment to the Croatian Army. So that's one chance, one chance to further fertilize production, that is, to create an additional value. The fourth area would be the exchange of scientific and technical data. So in a civilised world of prevention forms a basis, curative is something both in medicine and in the wind, but of course if I can call Colloquial and in these circumstances the type of protection against various disasters prevention is far the most important. And the fifth area, but not less importantly, is the exchange of other documents essential for the protection and rescue of, for example, database exchanges. It is very important that we could do a certain analysis, in order to make a certain assumption with the help of regression methods, you have to do a collection of data, so you have to have certain registers and these registers can determine a certain trend. Therefore, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is when it is observed backwards for 10 or 15 years precisely that in certain regular spaces there is drought, in certain regular spaces there are certain natural disasters of the type of beating or of course floods. That's not exactly correct, but you can detect some things with almost 90 percent probability. The main objective, if we can call it this, of this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, is mutual assistance in protecting and saving and removing the consequences of the disaster and, of course, I repeat the exchange of experiences. There are, of course, reasonable reasons, for the state's reasons that the law goes into emergency procedure. Because, as I have already said at the outset, the consequences of recent catastrophic floods, and the experiences that have been gained, unfortunately, in the same way, have thus shown the need for enhanced co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. In front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, but also as president of the State Commission for Damages and Essential Accidents, they can say that the State Commission developed in 2013 and 2014 a software that actually collects, or collects all data from the Republic of Croatia on all the damages that occur on the ground. This register, therefore, when I spoke about those areas of action, of course I also mentioned companies that can develop their jobs economically. So also this software is, so the Republic of Croatia will be ready to offer it as a final solution, the know-how system for R. Serbia, R. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for all the republics with which the Republic of Croatia borders. So software was built on a similar principle to the APIS product of fiscalization. So, you know for yourself that this software is one of the best in this part of the world and that it is currently, that negotiations are being made with R. Czech Republic, also R. Serbia, that this software is being applied to their territory. According to the same logic, according to the same matrix, software was made, so the register damages in agriculture, construction and infrastructure. Of course, this agreement also clearly defines the crossing of the state border in case of certain problems, in case of certain needs. It is also defined as flying over the aircraft, and as you have seen, the Committee on National Security has defined or pointed to certain remarks concerning the need for the Croatian Parliament to ratify this agreement and that, in fact, the parent bodies and committees should be discussed before the signing of this Agreement. But all in all, I believe that my debate has provoked several and replicas, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, I would like to say that we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99068	Thank you. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99069	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Roman you started your debate so you said you were preparing two weeks ago at the time of Operation Maslenica's anniversary when the two states were looking over the target. It is normal to establish good relations and to normalise relations between states, as well as with Serbia, but it is not normal to go to the Croatian Parliament to edit Croatian history. Croatia and Serbia were not seen through sights, but Serbia has committed aggression on Croatia. Serbia did not want to recognise Croatia, which was both the politics of both Croatia and the international community, so today because of some conciliance, I think that such regulation of history does not benefit anyone but that we should tell the truth whether someone liked it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99070	Damir Rimac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99071	My colleague Tudjman, you are a personal dear man to me, but I really don't see where I edited Croatian history in my debate. So, in a metaphorically speaking, I said that at that moment 22 years ago, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia were looking over the target. You've expressed it in another way. I have not mentioned in any part that Croatia has not or has been attacked by the Republic of Serbia. So, I really don't understand your comment, but I'm glad that you only referred to it because all this other stuff that I said turns out to be true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99072	So it's good that when we discuss the rate of text we're discussing, we don't go too far. Col. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99073	My dear fellow Roman, you have not provoked me to this replica, and I will also reflect on your introduction. You've been talking about damage in the end, and you can see that harm even nature can't do as much harm as human evil can do the damage we've felt. You spoke, of course I refer to what you said about Maslenica. You said today is a very different situation, that our relationships are much better. However, we are still not acting and I am not saying this now in Croatia as a civilised state because relations are not good. Relations for so long are not good until a country denies what happened and so long as we are looking for those 1600 and some missing persons, so long it will not be possible to establish good neighbourly relations until the stolen treasure is returned that the Prime Minister Milanovic spoke the other day and so long no good neighbourly relations will be established until a country, which is neighbouring Serbia, declares competent to judge what happened in the Republic of Croatia. It's thought hypocritical or flossula that relationships are good. When those three things are solved, then we'll establish normal relationships. It is unthinkable for me that politicians go to Serbia and make out with the problems we have. I get it. I'm not a militarist. I get it. And after that, when we establish an equal relationship, then we'll talk about border issues. With this part, I fully agree with your debate and I'm signing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99074	Damir Rimac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99075	Dear colleague, therefore very clearly for the objective information of the Croatian public, the Republic of Croatia has always been civilized as it is now. So she waged a clear defensive war, and in that war she acted as a civilised state. I didn't say relationships were good, I said relationships were better. And your debate was also almost 90% beyond the measure of things, and this is the proposal of the Law on the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, as a civilised state, as a member of the EU, we are the ones who need to move into the conversation. And we are you like yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the prime minister told you who set the conditions, clear frameworks and conditions for co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99076	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Romec, of course, should support this agreement, but I think that here as well as colleagues before me and the debate on this agreement encourages the Government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage with the Republic of Serbia and the new strengthening of other agreements and agreements from the past precisely on what is the biggest problem today. Because the biggest disaster was war, the biggest disaster was aggression, and of course until we find everyone on the list of prisoners and missing will not be true and true peace, especially when here on the other hand you have senior officials who continue to say that Vukovar is also the day of memory of Vukovar's sacrifice that Vukovar is the Serbian city. I therefore propose that here, on the trail and this agreement, the Republic of Croatia strengthens all agreements from the past, all agreements, all signatures, all talks between the Ministers of Justice and other ministers, of course, on the search for the missing and the opening of finally all the archives of the Yugoslav People's Army, which undoubtedly hold an answer to the question of where our favorites are who are the families of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and civilians.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99078	Damir Rimac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99079	Dear counterpart Kosor, that one piece might agree with your replica, but I would remind you that of all the agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia with so-called states bordering the Republic of Serbia, so only in 2015. That's what I said first. But let me express my agreement from this place and in front of the Croatian public, absolutely agree with Prime Minister Milanovic's statement that he said, "Well, I don't suppose Croatia will descend to that level to replicate any noise that provokes or says something." So, the Republic of Croatia has its own height, but the Republic of Croatia knows when and who to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99080	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99081	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Well, the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal for a Law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. And what I would particularly like to stress is that the experiences that the Republic of Croatia has in the organization of the state especially, protection and rescue of the elemental disasters should certainly be used by our neighbours. What I would particularly like to point out is that in recent catastrophic floods that hit the eastern Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia has shown the readiness of Croatian police, Croatian firefighters, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. That's why I support this agreement to make it easier for all these intervention units to intervene and save lives in such disasters. Because in crossing the border every moment is very important. With this agreement that we received in the original, we could study and see exactly what it was about. In fact, this is an agreement that confirms what happens in nature that natural disasters do not know the limits and that borders are not their barriers. Because what it means is that one of the neighbouring states that borders do certain activities in terms of protection and the other one doesn't. Thus, water, fire, radioactivity, or any other pollution will surely cross over to the other side. It is therefore good that the quality agreement correctly defines all the obligations arising from these agreements in which they are handled, and what I would particularly point out, given that I am a multi-annual firefighter, that there is a very important way of informing and transferring non-information here. For every aid and intervention is the most important time for coming and saving. What I would say is that this agreement, first of all, needs to be seen as a civil and human question because no matter when a man is in trouble, he certainly needs to be helped. Normally, the relations with this agreement that most colleagues in the Parliament and most citizens will also lead to the context of the Homeland War, I don't think that this should be a burden on us because in the not so far past and in these places it has been said that it is always the winner who holds the hand. I believe that the RH winner was in the Homeland War and that this is one way to reach out, not to forget what it was, to solve it in such a good way. What is particularly good in this agreement is that all activities, all procedures and all ways are precisely defined. In view of the good organisation and good experience, this is also possible for the Republic of Croatia to make use of some progress in the economy, given that the Republic of Croatia has significant and productive capacity in the matter and equipment of rescue, in relation to certain other tools and other technical means, and I believe that this part should certainly be used. Normally, this agreement defines that when seeking help from, the damaged party comes and is activated complete this life-saving device. Here it is defined by the agreement that in front of the Republic of Croatia, it is for protection and rescue, the State Department of Protection and Rescue, and on the other hand the Ministry of Police. I think it's those competent institutions that carry out all the activities. What is also coming to and can be seen in this agreement that the Republic of Croatia, in its organisation of its protection and rescue, has to do some more activities at least the legal activities that we have not done. We have not yet drawn up the Civil Protection Act and according to NATO standards is one of the most important things in all these situations, especially war and civil protection. That is why we would certainly suggest before the Croatian People's Party that the Civil Protection Act goes as soon as possible and in fact that this model of a vertical organisation in the Republic on protection, rescue and assistance to the endangered as soon as possible and done, to set an example for our neighbours. The agreement also addresses issues of border crossing with equipment, the issue of damage. I think that the agreement is well made and that it will certainly contribute to both understanding and better good neighbourly relations between the countries operating in this space. Because people who are in need, people who have experienced a natural disaster, regardless of whether it's an earthquake, a flood, a fire, a radioactivity, pollution, it's the most appreciated one who's given him first aid. I think that this should build good neighbourly relations because this agreement is not about identifying historical truths or historical events, it is a concrete agreement that, in the opinion of us in the HNS, will certainly contribute to better understanding and better relations between states. What Romec said so far has signed several agreements, I think we should continue to work on it because in agreements and talks with neighbours we can negotiate certain joint activities on protection, flood rescue on security, especially here the issue of environmental protection and the issue of endangering neighbours through air pollution. That is why it would certainly be good to agree with BiH and see the issue of the agreement itself, the HNS will support this proposal, and I say that these agreements will certainly contribute to better development and understanding of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99082	Thank you. Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99083	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Minister. You told your colleague in this exhibit that you know that at this moment we are our force of protection and rescue are well equipped and that they are good quality, and I would take this opportunity and I know you know that as a fire officer and a fire officer, but perhaps as an idea, use something that others are doing and put into this agreement and activate the old issue of Divulus as a training centre for all of Southeast Europe. I've been to a school in Valabra by Marseilles several times where they train the entire area of all their former colonies and these Arab countries. I think that such an opportunity should also be taken with us because we are truly the strongest and most equipped to argue it here, according to all the countries here in Southeast Europe, and Hungary certainly because unfortunately by a large number of fires we have received experience and equipped our strengths, techniques and equipment and it should be used in a way that perhaps already in this agreement, if there are opportunities to install that centre in Divulje as an old idea, as a training centre where they would all come into training and where we would have financial opportunities and then we could sell our equipment, their technique, and also our skills and experiences, and thus position what we are, and that is to be responsible for all the countries in this part of Europe even Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Albania and Greece, surely, neither Greeks are better than us in this part to be that center and to be... agreements and signed but to use at least in this agreement to try to encourage this part of the idea, so that we have this part of Europe at this moment and in order that we are able to transfer ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99084	Ivica Mandic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I fully agree that with our knowledge and experience, the equipment surely deserves Croatia. And I believe that even interested neighbours should certainly use one way of specialized training and exploited in the Republic of Croatia. This should certainly be used in the negotiations of this possibility because the base of Divulje exists, the equipment exists, professional personnel exist and I see no reason not to come to synergy again because the goal of the Republic is that these all intervention units with which we have signed agreements that have almost passed the same specialist training because that time is easier communication and the intervention ability is much better. I support this proposal and it certainly is a good proposal for both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I say a good asset because we have experience, we have a base, and already throughout the year there are certain intervention units in that base. And our experience in fires and elementary disasters is great to say on behalf of the citizens that the experience of intervention abilities is excellent and that this is one of the best references to our neighbours so that we can organise something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99086	Damir Rimca, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99087	Dear fellow Mandic, therefore the debate was good for you and where luck is that we have more debates in this House than you and from fellow Sanaders who must say I have had a very constructive initiative and I believe that it will soon come to the deputy and the ministry to bear fruit to initiate something in that part. So I personally like this debate and controversy because they are very constructive and, on the other hand, through such dialogue, we come up with some concrete solutions. So if I could be free from this place, I would call this debate a form of political ecumenism because it actually seems peaceful and shows that both opposition and position can work politically and act on the well-being of the Republic of Croatia. A few words you mentioned to your colleague Mandic about civil protection, so you did not mention the Mountain Rescue Service that was extremely developed in the Republic of Croatia. So I come from Slavonia, from Vinkovci, we have part of the Mountain Rescue Service even in Vinkovci even in equal Slavonia. These people are dressed, I personally have a few friends who almost every weekend, every week go to some sort of specialist training. And I would remind, of course, in this replica towards you because time leaks to me that Croatia as no country in this part of the Southeast or Western Balkans or the European Union if we call it part of the European Community has almost all climates and has almost such territory that there are both rivers and mountains and continental climates and mountain climates, so these are comparative advantages that we can take advantage of. And finally alone, the agreement was signed in Belgrade on 15.7., so I can't help thinking that the disaster that followed in the 5th month in Croatia and Serbia was somehow an accelerator and trigger to sign the agreement. And in the end, since my time has run out, no man can unite war, but humanity unites catastrophes and disasters as it happens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99088	Thank you very much. Ivica Mandic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99089	Thank you very much, fellow Roman for your positive remarks about the presentation. What I always want when I say in the House that I am trying to objectively look at proposals, with constructive suggestions, to see what can be done in quality and to make it all applicable. It's actually always harder than I'm leaving. What's important to say is that it's certain that the elemental disasters that hit these spaces has accelerated a certain number of activities but I believe that this procedure was without it, but this must have accelerated. What I would point out is that in times of significant climate change and growing elemental disasters, more and more inequalities in changing weather conditions, because almost in the areas where we live now that no change in time happens not to be scary, you have no more light changes to prepare for a few days so that a change of time comes, it's all in a few hours. It's probably also the reason that a man, with his actions and lifestyle, has disrupted certain things in nature, but that's why we're here if such disasters come to an end safely in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99090	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99091	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mandic, this is indeed an excellent law, very rational, and we need such laws and a common policy of relations between countries should be seen at the highest level only rationally. But it is very difficult not to look back on other issues related to relations between the two countries, especially Croatia and Serbia, but also the whole of this region because Serbia is guilty of lagging behind the development of the entire region, the lack of development and their own state. We will stay here in these areas neighbours probably for 500 years at least or forever depending on what form. But until Serbia itself faces the fact that they have pushed this entire region back some 50 or 100 years and that they are also guilty of their personal lagging behind for these same reasons because they have waged this aggressive war and with this aggressive policy we will hardly establish some kind of higher relations, we will hardly be able to progress in these relations and we as their neighbours certainly care that we have a good, good, good, reasonable, developed, rich neighbour but that we have a country that cannot escape from its own historical mistakes. I'm sure it would have been much better if we'd parted like the Czech Republic and Slovakia did and not this way. And I'm saying it's very difficult in these discussions when we're discussing some kind of relationship not to discuss it, especially considering what the International Court of Justice ruled in The Hague the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99092	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99093	Thank you very much, colleague Blazekovic, thank you very much, Vice President. So in my debate, I did not touch the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia and the question of historical events. I have noted in one part what was but I think that here on a concrete proposal for this cooperation agreement on elemental disasters will certainly come about significant progress. With this agreement, we will also achieve better communication because we have a common body of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, especially in the case of elemental disasters. Because a certain way and informing the other side where it didn't happen must certainly be to be able to be more prepared. And what they're saying is, one folk who's in my neighborhood in Slavonia that always next door helps the neighbor first. That is why I think that this agreement is good, and that on the basis of this agreement, we must improve the quality of relations with the Republic of Serbia. Because I believe in one long, long history we'll be neighbors safely as an independent state. In about 10, 15 years, we can be together in both the European Union and that time, until that time, the Republic of Serbia will surely experience these changes that you have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99094	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99095	Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters. The Croatian Parliament is discussing or should discuss the agreement, however, the paradox is that the agreement was signed in 15.7.2014 and also says in the proposal that the text of the agreement cannot be changed and complemented. In other words, a question arises which is the purpose and purpose of this debate. It should be said immediately that I stand in that position that such agreements should be signed, that they are of interest to all countries and to Croatia and Serbia, as well as to other countries with which Croatia has already signed the agreement. However, the fact is that we can't discuss things today, and then we can and must discuss those formal provisions that we were convinced of the president of Mr. Lek's Parliament the other day that democracy is in shape and respect for procedures. The fact is that the proposal for this agreement was not on the parent board before or in the Assembly or any other interested body, but the Croatian Assembly of the Executive Authority, or by the promoters of this Agreement, is now simply putting into good intentions before the final act and this is depending on how we interpret these motives, which is what we want or will not manipulate the Croatian Parliament and bring the integrity of the Croatian Parliament into question. Simply, this can be illustrated by several examples that remained unarranged and even after a debate where there was no answer, or by the legislator’s representatives, they did not know how certain things were dealt with. For the sake of clear example, let us take Article 14(5), I will probably read it: the use of military aircraft for the purpose of this Agreement will be allowed only with the consent of the competent authority of the Contracting Party seeking assistance. Military aircraft are engaged with the task of protecting against natural and other disasters in the state area of the Contracting Party requesting assistance in the manner set out in the Agreement on Defence and Military Co-operation and Agreements on the Status of Military Forces currently in force. At this post-festum discussion on the board, we didn't hear the answer whether the Canadians who are with us were formations in the Armed Forces but in the function of this civilian, using the State Protection and Rescue Authority, under which agreement and under which regime they will fly and use. We know that no matter how good relations they have at a certain point, these relationships can be oscillated, and if these things are simply written in bona fide modality, it does not always mean that it will be so, so these things should be worked out or explained how they were agreed and how they were worked out whether or not the military agreement was seen, or under what regime it is happening and solved. On the other hand, we have the situation to say that no additional funding in the state budget is required. However, here are a number of commitments, wishes, plans that, without any further interpretation, can hardly be realised without additional resources. So let's say from Article 7 below that the parties encourage the cooperation of economic operators and state bodies in the field of technological development and production, I don't know how this can be done without additional funds, to encourage cooperation between humanitarian organisations, to cooperate with each other with the aim of professional training in establishing direct links and cooperation between educated institutions. I do not see that establishing relationships can be free or free of any additional means, with cooperation in professional training and training, exchange of educational materials and resources, joint exercises, etc. It is very nice to want all of this and it should be done, but it is necessary to see and give an assessment of what material costs such as assumptions or such goals or wishes can be achieved in this agreement. In that sense, I don't think this is a good way to adopt these agreements. It is inadmissible in my opinion that such agreements are being entered into, without having previously been discussed if not at the plenary session of the Parliament, at least on the parent committees and interested committees in order to clarify these matters or to supplement them, and then in the negotiating positions of the Croatian side would be much stronger. And for this reason, I think that, not because of the content, I repeat again, but because of the procedure which is not respected here and for the protection of the integrity of the Croatian Parliament, it is necessary to refrain from voting in this agreement so that we do not have to repeat it again. On the other hand, we have another problem. We don't know how such an obsession with such lawmaking. In similar agreements, especially when it comes to multilateral agreements in the agreements itself, we were said that parties, interested signatories, would ratify these agreements, and we are all producing the Law on the adoption of the agreement. We have already said that we should say that these agreements should be ratified, that the Croatian Parliament has ratified them and I see no reason why such agreements should not be accepted here by ratification, not by law or law. And I repeat again that the government in the future delivers this kind of agreement to the Croatian Parliament with a proposal for ratification. I think it is in the interest of the Croatian Parliament that it requires the executive to respect the integrity of the Parliament and that the message would be to refrain from this time, we will be abstentioned in the vote of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99096	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99097	Dear colleague Tudjman, therefore, in your debate, you were mostly talking about not being able to discuss the scale of the matter because the Croatian Parliament was brought in this way, conditionally told before the finished act and that it was necessary to change the approach urgently because the procedure was not respected. So I tried to quote your words. And in some ways I can agree with your thesis that this agreement is not the 15th in a row. So, on the official pages of the State Office for Protection and Rescue, there are 14 such or similar agreements, and I honestly believe that the procedure for each of them was exactly the same. So in that part, I appeal to you and your HDZ colleagues to still support this law because it is important to send political messages here. So, I absolutely accept your debate that this was the first or second example and that it was conditionally unrespectable procedure. But I repeat, this is the 15th in a row. On the other hand, you mentioned a bona fide modality, so in good faith this contract was signed. Well, frankly, all contracts are signed in some sort of bona fide modality. So I sincerely hope that no one here believes or hopes that there will be a rewar or a tightening of relations between Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. And also, I hope you didn't insinuate that this was intentional, because I repeat this is not the first agreement. This is the last agreement and before it was signed 15, 14. So you said you didn't need an increase in funding. Well, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue which is actually the holder of these projects has an approved budget and has its own budget. Also the Mountain Rescue Service He's got his own agreement. [[Thank you very much. Thank you. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99098	A hundred such laws have been passed by the Croatian Parliament since the 1990s to today, confirming certain international agreements. Therefore, if something needs to be changed in the procedure so far, the procedure has been so. I understand, you've been in Parliament a few times when we've been discussing these laws this way. In the name of the club, and I'm sorry. The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99099	Thank you. Look, I accept this thesis that previous agreements are made in the same way, but that doesn't mean that if we're wrong all the time that we have to continue to act that way. I mentioned, we had an example the other day when the President of the Parliament said why he refused to let the defenders turn or he said we'd make a precedent and then we'd have to act like one. We've got a precedent here, so we'll keep it that way. It's just not good, it's not good, because some things need to be cleared up before they do. When I said bona fide, then I thought this was well written, that article I signed. And I also said that there are oscillations in the relationship between states, so if relations are good then the Canadians will fly like civilian planes, if relations are sharp, then they'll say for this and that reason they can say they're military planes, so they have to fly through another regime. This is what I was talking about that such ambiguity should be clarified before and there is no reason why the Croatian Parliament, the committee responsible or the Parliament should not discuss it before the delegation leaves. I don't see anything wrong with that. So why is that, then, why does it put itself as a problem. And in that sense, I think that part should change that procedure. And that's why I said this as a warning, not because I, I pointed out I am not against these agreements, they should be signed, they should be better prepared, but the Croatian Parliament should not be excluded from the Gabarite procedure in which way and in which direction it should go. That's the meaning of this remark of mine and this attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99100	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with Associates, I am pleased to have you here today, it's good to see you again, fellow Members of Parliament. The HDSB club will also be abstentioned in connection with this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters with the final draft of the law. Why? I also ask the Deputy Minister, and all of us together, was there an agreement under which Croatian firefighters, police officers, special forces and medical teams worked in Obrenovac and other places in the Republic of Serbia and that there was no agreement last May when there was a catastrophic flood, so when we came here, we helped the Republic of Serbia as much as we could and how much they asked for it? There was no deal. In the Croatian Parliament here, was the same material on the agenda at the plenary session that spoke about the agreement between the countries of Southeastern Europe and the J-Eastern capital? It is. This means that the Croatian state recognises Southeast Europe as some kind of formation because it is a concept like Croatia, Serbia, BiH, Southeast Europe? Instead of being written in a small letter, which would mean that we consider it a kind of side of the world. And then I objected to such a way of writing material. Furthermore, what if it happens among firefighters, don't let God re-emerge the flood, that among firefighters who will cross the border between the Republic of Serbia, each has a personal identification document, a ID card or what, this agreement allows and what is necessary for each of the helpers to identify themselves in the event of a disaster when crossing the border, is also someone like Veljko Maric? Will Serbia, so he will enter the Republic of Serbia but will not come out again. So, someone who is accused and whom Serbia considers to be the war crimes indictee in the area of the former Yugoslavia. So I'm not saying now, to hear the comments already, it's not about that. Yes, it is that much has changed in this Hague verdict where no good foundation is actually created and good foundations for the future of cooperation and future co-operation between these two countries, but vice versa. Some foundations began to collapse, in fact, which had already been started with construction. Furthermore, what does the Sava Commission that exists between the countries of the former Yugoslavia, so Slovenia, BiH, Croatia and Serbia? So there's a Sava Commission that's formed, which isn't deformed and that takes care of first and foremost of all the airworthiness of the Sava River, the depth of its trough, the border issues between these countries not only Save but Danube, so it's called the Sava Commission but it deals with the rivers that make up the border between these countries. What's she doing or is there more? When was her last session, the Sava Commission? No one really knows. Is it in the provisions that make the agreement, so we're talking about an agreement on the Sava Commission, is there actually an agreement to help with any disasters? We build some law on the law, so they say the hyperproduction of the Croatian Parliament and also the Croatian government. Have we settled the border issues on the Danube? What if there's a fire of great proportions on the charengrad ad? Who's going to intervene, so why don't you tell me now, Mr. Deputy? If it is currently under the police authority and jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, or Vojvodina? Croatian police must not come to the Charengrad ad. It is not for the people of Charengrad to cut down their forest, which is grantly and catastrianly registered to the people of Sharengrad, but for the Charengrad Ada to be controlled by the police of Backa Palanka. And if there is a fire in the charengrad adj, it is a forest, unmoved, there are no roads, there is no Croatian forest at all, they have no jurisdiction over the forest on the Charengrad Ada which is huge, so what, who's going to be to blame? What kind of agreement, under which agreement will anyone intervene, what are we talking about here? What about the areas so-called "Kenjije", knows Mr. Juhas, where there are more than 10,000 hectares of catastran and grant countries of people living in the Republic of Croatia and who are Croatian citizens. No one mentions it. We will sign all of Serbia, Chapter 23, we all give, we have no obstacles to Serbia's entry into the EU. So what are we talking about here? And now this agreement is actually like this, some kind of salve or an oil spill on the fire. Let's think Croatian about all this together. Of course we're always good intentions. Have we come to help Serbia, have we come to the aid of Greece's Canadians when it should have been, Albania? Even Italy, even to our canaders. Who has even questioned that Croatia will not help, if it can, of course, within the limits of its capabilities, so it is not Croatia, you can see that the last one for GDP growth and Europe is in economic condition, the last 0.2% for 2015 is projected growth, and I guess 1% is now just a forecast for 2016, right? This Croatia will help everyone. No civil protection law, no civil protection. Mr. Pavle Kalinić writes to each representative, the head of the Office of the City of Zagreb, how he should once come to the agenda of the Croatian Assembly Civil Protection Act. Nobody listens, nobody puts it on the agenda. Is it not Paule Kalinic the enemy of the Croatian state and the people? We need to burn ourselves a hundred times and see once, and with such an agreement, too. The other day, I was in Slavonic Boat waiting for General Glavas to cross the border as his friend. Mr. Franjo Vuksanovic came to me called the nobleman, so to speak, Mr. Doctor, tell the Croatian Assembly that the urgent and necessary repair and reconstruction of the embankment in Slavonski Šamac is the first Sava to arrive at the height at which it was last year will flood customs in May, that customs station on the border and the police that has its own police station and everything else. A railroad that used to be called Shamac-Sarajev and was sung in battle songs there went into private hands and was already submerged, and it serves as a dikes with Sava water, underground waters. When the Shamac floods it will flood all the way to Djakova, Slavonski Šamac I speak of no Bosnian Arm. Do we have a deal like this with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the same? We don't, so why don't we have Bosnia and Herzegovina? If we have an agreement with Montenegro on disasters, God forbid there's a fire on the Prevlaca or some tsunamis out there in Boca Kotorska, we don't. The other day there was a storm that was said by the rise and the sea, I don't know if I was full moon, now that I'm not describing meteorological conditions and I'm up, we don't have. Here, so we have an agreement with Serbia on disasters. I am not against, that someone wrongly does not understand me here, against helping anyone, against an agreement with anyone, but clearly under certain conditions that will protect both the reputation and honor of the Croatian state and that the Croatian state provides every country in its environment. It should be clear that Croatian people and equipment were on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and when there was no agreement and it will be again if necessary, he says, "And again, if there is any luck, if there is an accident." We see here when we return to the very articles that it is also about manufacturing equipment together, I don't know what not, organizing joint exercises, exercises are completely free, people eat nothing on exercises, don't drink, they work as machines, like robots, then informative meetings there are also not drinking anything other than water from pipe water, so from the water line, then training, then the production of some equipment, protective equipment, rescue equipment and other equipment, medical equipment, etc. It costs nothing, because it says in this law that this law officially says "The assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law and says the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia." But we are, however, in fact, in the position that something new is happening that is not in the budget and that will have to be paid. Well, we can't just like someone already said before me, that it doesn't cost much. It's not true, it's not true. Says the competent authorities for the implementation of this agreement with the Croatian State Administration for Protection and Rescue of DUZS, and in the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Interior of the Emergency Sector. It's about civil protection, so it's not in Article 4, because civil protection actually doesn't, and if it turns out, if it ever turns out to be a need somebody thinks it's a relic of socialism, so don't give God territorial defense yet, so he thinks it's unnecessary because that's a relic, the rest of socialism, so God forbid someone thinks it's creating civil protection. Perhaps because of this, perhaps because of these ideological reasons and ideological thinking, no civil protection was created. Mostly as I have already cited for all of these reasons and because we do not care, the Ministry of Interior is not responsible for the spread in Slavonska Šamac but Croatia's waters, but I am clear to know that the citizens of Brod Posavina warn that they still have critical places with Sava, here now Sava is growing these days, if there is a water stop that was last year, there will be huge disasters not only in Gunja, Raj's village and Drenovci but also in other places because they have already missed many places at the time when there has been a rash on Gunja. In what way the rash broke, the lines of the shooting of the embankment are very correct, so I would not like to comment on it, although there are numerous rumors of how and why the embankment broke in the village of Heaven. Yes, they're very speculative. And if Sava breaks in this straight, you can draw a straight line as Sava broke the embankment in the village of Heaven. Yes, very interesting. Here, I won't be long and take time. Thank you very much. The HDSB club will be abstentioned on the issue of voting for the agreement between Croatia and Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99102	Damir Rimac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99103	Dear colleague Grubisic, so what I told my colleague Tudjman I'll tell you. So I appeal to your political conscience it's bad for you to be abstentions to this law. And a few references now to your debate. So, at first, using the name of Mr. Veljko Marić, you absolutely defamed the complete structure which I dare say in your debate has since the beginning of the nihilistic attitude. So, everything's bad with you and everything's negative. A focus on the hyperproduction of laws in the Croatian Parliament and as far as I know, the Croatian Parliament is in charge of discussing and passing laws just like some complex, some factory their task is to produce a final product. The final product of this House is the law and I do not think that the Croatian Parliament is hyperproduction of the law. With regard to your observation for Slavonski Šamac for the rash that will be breached I personally believe that Croatian Waters and Professional Services Croatian Waters are doing their job, but the emphasis is on this word but we leave the possibility of really reminding or checking to create a supervisory vision of whether the rash in Slavonski Šamac is in good shape or not. So in your debate, you mentioned that there is no agreement with BiH, you mentioned that there is no agreement with Montenegro, which actually points to your elemental ignorance. The agreement was signed in 2011 by BiH, an agreement with Montenegro in 2008. The money, so a few of them and you mentioned that money wasn't necessary and you referred to it. So the money, it's not necessary for this law to be implemented this year because I don't believe there will be joint exercises by the end of 2015. It will only be 2016 if the duration of the agreement is unlimited.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99104	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99105	Thank you very much. My colleague, I look forward to you estimating that you are the entire Croatian people of the SDP that you are estimating our abstention with something negative, even mentioning the word nihilism or something,... with a merger. I'm not as deep as Nietzsche or so in the mood. I said Croatia has made an effort without agreement to help the Republic of Serbia, and you know it well. Why do you deny what I said? Why are you denying that what I said why didn't you deny that there was an agreement here with the countries of Southeast Europe 4.5 months ago? Which is why if we have a 2011 agreement with BiH, why was it here five months ago on the benches of a disaster agreement with the Southeast European countries where both BiH and Montenegro and Romania and Bulgaria were involved, Moldova doesn't know who doesn't and Slovenia seems to me. Why don't you say so? Why did the government deliver here on benches and no longer appear in reading the agreement of the Southeast European countries, and now we have Serbia, separately, especially? You only kiss three times, so you'll get votes in the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99106	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99107	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic is the fact that we will live here forever as neighbours, that this fact cannot be changed regardless of our past. But in one you are right, in your debate you said and I also warn of that fact. So, based on this agreement, it is really possible to imagine that in some fire department or in any other group that would have helped in some disaster in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, ours and someone under the 2003 law, which the Republic of Serbia passed on extending jurisdiction to Croatia in a trial for Croatian citizens for crimes committed in the territory of Croatia, is indeed found, as I recall in 2011. And of course we have had terrible arrests both Mr. Purda and Marić and impossible legal and any other situation where the defenders, of course, rightly protested. Therefore, the situation is legally possible. We passed the Law on Vulnerabilities in 2011, however, as we see in this case crossing the border would in no way prevent the arrest of a Croatian citizen. So in this process of the accession of the Republic of Serbia, we must seek unconditionally, but here is the minister of justice who announced it, meaning the unconditional withdrawal of that law from 2003. And then continue our support on Serbia's European path on a healthy basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99108	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99109	Thank you very much, colleague Kosor, for the support you gave and for finding the part that can really happen, so it can actually happen. Until this 2003 law of the universal jurisdiction of the Serbian court is annulled, there is nothing to do with the Republic of Serbia or this and that is my position. And who likes it, likes it, doesn't like it, doesn't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99110	Shandor Judas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99111	I don't like that attitude. I think we should sign that agreement. We who live in the Danube are witnesses these days that the ice-crackers will come. We know that there was one major catastrophic flood in '53 when the ice caps were created. If these ice caps do not break with Hungarian and Serb ice-collars, they will hardly be able to escape if a new disaster is strong in winter. So that's something that's being done, and I think it's going in that direction, too. I wanted to ask you something else, you mentioned Kenji, and I'm very glad you mentioned it because we have areas on the other side of the Danube, just like Serbia has areas on the right hand side of the Danube. The question of how to protect these areas if there are no permanent contracts. Both in this Parliament and in the media, what they would say was that the hook and disruptors were raised when we discussed which side we would be able to fish, whether the border would be drawn between Slovenia and Croatia a little to the right or a little to the left. However, Kenji is an area of some 600 acres [600 ha] of orcs, some 9,000 more fertile forests, and the worst there are people living. There to talk about whether we're going to fish left or to fish right, but we're going to talk about how, how we're going to pay attention to these people who can't go to Osijek Hospital because they need to cross the border, they can't sell their products because they need to, because they're in the pocket of the other side of the Danube and they need to cross the border, they can't get a blue diesel, they can't get a boost, they can't get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99112	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99113	Thank you very much for your help in the debate and for your replica. It is indeed a replica that none, not just the Government, but a minister, and all those responsible do not mention at all. They say Croatia will be satisfied if the problem of the missing is solved and the arts return. This is all the official reports by the authorities regarding the fulfillment of Serbia's path towards the European Union... Now, according to the latest one, if the Universal Jurisdiction Act is repealed, that's the third paragraph. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what is a real problem, where you say you even have villages, people live there, can't live by Croatian laws because Serbia has long set the condition for Croatia to go to the middle of the Danube, which is completely inappropriate. The second thing is that the Republic of Croatia, or Vojvodina, has and people have cadastrian and grant parts and on our part, but if they were to sum up how much it is, it is no longer 2:2 but 10:2, right, you know what the surfaces are. ... 10:2 as far as I know or 5:1, 10 thousand to 2,000 acres. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But that, regardless of any 2:1, 5:1 should be realistically determined. And I'm glad that at least someone but me brought this thing out in the Croatian Parliament and through the replica, even the replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99114	Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99115	Thank you. Here's my colleague Grubisic I'd just like to briefly refer to your civil protection debate. I'd recommend, please, that we don't create tension over this, you know, the Civil Protection Act needs urgent, that's what a big public debate is about. There have already been two public debates over the Civil Protection Act and it would not be good if it created tensions towards the leaders, give it the urgent civil protection law as some do because after this big public debate it would not be good to go back to the old system that you were talking about. There is one group of people who would centralize all of this and we have strong troops, civilian units and fire departments and the Mountain Rescue Service and the Red Cross, scouts and all the auxiliary organizations in society that are a strong force of civil protection. And if we didn't get into a position to centralize that civil protection again because we've been functioning without it for a long time through this National Protection and Rescue Authority, the entire system is operational and now it would be bad to go back to civil protection with some fast law so that we could disrupt it all and bring it back, centralize it. We need a system, we don't need troops. And they're trying to make new troops through the law right now. We don't need that because we have too much of a system. We have excellent examples in the neighborhood of Austria, Germany where I don't know the fire departments function practically a large part of civil protection because I can do it with constant surgery. Secondly, the state has professional units of this fire department that are able to do a number of jobs that civil protection can do. But let's not get into a position, let's start civil protection now, so we'll be like that before there were 50 people from the village, they'll be civil protection, and people will watch how they're going to escape, not how they're going to do something. We have strong forces of volunteering and volunteering teams through the fire department, the Mountain Service, the Red Cross and all other troops that are doing great and we just need to shape them in quality and help the state and co-ordinator in the tragedies and disasters. So here's my appeal and please let's not force it, give the law because it won't do any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99116	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99117	Thank you very much, colleague Sanader, for saying yourself that there is a long public debate on the long winter night, according to Dragutin Tadjanovic. So the debate that goes indefinitely in the year and will be completed int he year twentifive, twentifive so we will never obviously create because there are no interests, fear people centralization, return to socialism etc.. And we saw in Gunja that it is good for you to organize DUZS, Croatian water, etc., that the military had to intervene and not only in Gunja but also in a number of places. Is it, of course, that the Croatian Army is Croatia and that it will always help if it is its role to help in such things if Croatia's water and firemen are well organized and I don't know who's not involved in this DUZS. Secondly, I was told by the people of Jarugam, Svilaj, the New City, so all the villages next to Shamcu, Kruševići that before, ten years ago, every resident who had a house, so whoever had a place in that village was in charge of a 15-metre hike to cut him down. To pick up a lawn mower in front of the house, as the number says, a home number to cut down on Savi's house number in front of it. Today the dikes are completely abandoned, grasses to dogs, ambrosia capitals, moles, mice, wolves in ruins and work on the embankments. And that's why we had a break-through not only in Raj's Village but also in Svilaj and New Town and everywhere. Who should worry, maybe the people, then people weren't organized into some kind of civil protection but there was a duty of some sort in the village, as the village prince said you were going to mow here, this is yours, this is yours, all the people for their own safety, because of themselves, because of their children they cut that part. Well, it's not a problem to cut down 15 meters of embankment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99118	Thank you. Final Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99119	... Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] If you'll allow me, I'd only say one claim, one goal of this kind of law. The goal is to each of us, or institutions that implement something to protect the lives of people and property, human health, that is. And our citizens, we must primarily protect our citizens, at times when we are hit by a disaster, some kind of natural event or something that comes unexpectedly, is such a scale that our capacities cannot protect our people. That's when it's necessary, and we're all eyewitnesses, to ask for help from other countries, and that's common. There is one principle and humanity and the provision of assistance to others who also find themselves in such unexpected situations that lead to certain disasters. So the aim of this agreement is, and it needs to be extended with other countries, to protect our citizens from one side when our capacities are not enough, and on the other hand, that we help others. Unfortunately, there are always open questions and open questions will be. I see from the debate that there are, but they are in the jurisdiction of some other ministries and other legal acts and they need to be resolved. At this point, I know that someone might resent it, at this point I think it is necessary to make this law or to adopt it because it is in the interest of protecting primarily Croatian citizens who need to be protected in some kind of catastrophic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99120	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99121	Comrade Tonkovic, I understand your good intentions and I have been in good faith and in good interest discussing, but I must ask you a few questions. Croatian forces and firemen and medical teams and special police intervened in Serbia, we know in Obrenovac, we looked at pictures on public and other commercial TVs that helped. We also know the situation in Gunya which was that... the car went after people and that the water was so high that nothing could get near the houses. If anyone from Serbia has helped in Croatia, tell me. That's one question. And secondly, you yourself have admitted but not directly but indirectly that there is no coordination between certain ministries regarding this. I mentioned the Sava Commission in my speech, you said it was something else. I mentioned Croatian waters, of course you can't make dikes, so I mentioned Croatian waters, so in some sense you admitted in the first sentence that there are other ministries but that there is not enough coordination between them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99122	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99123	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 775. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 29 abstentions and no votes against, have been passed by the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99124	We move to -a/ Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Water Services Council; b/ Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Water Services Council; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 217. Water law. You've received the motion for an act. The hearing was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. You want to explain? Yeah. Deputy Agriculture Minister Snježana Spain will explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99125	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The subject-matter decision actually proposes to resolve the current members of the Water Services Council appointed by the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 15 July 2010 on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the expiry of the term of office and the appointment of new members of the Water Services Council. The Water Services Council shall be established, in accordance with the Water Act, as an independent state body in order to ensure legality in the area of the pricing of water services and the development fee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Waters appoints and resolves members of the Council at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Members of the Council shall elect and resolve the President and Vice-President of the Council. The Council shall consist of 9 members in the order of experts in the field of water supply and disposal of waste water, water management, economy, public finances and other areas. The proposed experts come precisely from those areas, which is extremely important for the successful work of the council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Water law is as follows: the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on criteria for the calculation of the minimum basic price of water services and the type of costs incurred by water services; on a proposal from the Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on 16 September 2010; control of the legality of decisions on the price of water services; control of the legality of development compensation decisions; control of the legality of water prices to other water suppliers. In particular, the role of the council as an independent water service regulator with arbitration mechanisms between water service suppliers and local authorities is particularly important, whether local authorities run an underrated tariff water price policy, whether or not the water service provider proposes overestimated tariffs, and in order to ensure an expert assessment of the requirement to increase the price of services. It is particularly important to highlight the importance of the work of the Council to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the implementation of Article 9. Water Framework Directives, primarily on the full coverage of the costs of water services, while maintaining the affordability of water prices for users of these same water services. Control of the decision on the price of water services means control of the price paid by socially endangered citizens for the amount of water necessary for the basic needs of citizens, which cannot be determined at a level greater than 60% of the basic price of the water service. It is an area that was extremely fragmented by 2010 and we can say legally unsettled. The Council has contributed to equating decision-making procedures by adopting uniform forms and communication with water service providers and their founders to local self-government units. It is evident from this point of view that the Water Services Council as a water service regulator plays an important role in ensuring legality in the area of determining the price of water services and in developing fees. Decisions in question on the resolution, i.e. the appointment and continuation of the work of the Council, are an essential prerequisite for the continuation of the successful reform of the water-communal sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99126	I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motions for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99127	a/ Proposal for a decision authorising members of the Water Services Council and b/ Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Water Services Council. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Water Services Council. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 21 votes against, a decision has been taken to resolve the members of the Water Services Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Water Services Council. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 19 votes against, a decision has been taken to appoint members of the Water Services Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99128	We will now move to - a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Human Resources Development (B) The proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council for Human Resources Development is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 10. The law on the Croatian qualification framework. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. The decisions will be explained by Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Roko Andricevic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you are presented with a proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources as well as a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council. The National Council, as you probably know from the materials, has 24 members with one president. The main jobs and tasks of the National Council are the evaluation and evaluation of public policy, primarily education, employment, lifelong professional orientation and regional development policies. It is also the monitoring and evaluation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, making recommendations on improvements in the integration of education and labour market needs as well as other regional interests in education. The National Council submits its report on its work to the Croatian Assembly once a year. Due to the personal request, it is proposed that Tina Markush, Gordana Hus, Vesna Štefice and Prof. Jasmine Havrenek. It is also proposed to appoint Darinka Vedrin, Vlatka Marcana, Stankica Vrban and Emite Blagdan as substitutes for members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99130	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We also don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote on the motion for these decisions later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99131	a/ Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and b/ Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 26 abstentions and no votes against, a decision has been taken to resolve part of the members of the National Council for the development of human potentials in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour, 30 abstentions and nothing against, a decision has been taken to appoint a part of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in the text as proposed by the Proposer. That's what we've finished voting for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99132	And today we will also announce how we announced the debate - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2013 The report is submitted by the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency based on Article 13. Law on electronic communications. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The opening annual report will be explained by the President of the Council, Mr Drazen Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99133	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, good afternoon. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications has submitted to the Croatian Assembly a report on the work for 2013 in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications and the new Law on Regulation of the Market in Railway Services, which entered into force on 19 June of last year, was attached to the Croatian Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services and Electronic Communications in the newly created Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, which retained its shortened name HACOM. I therefore submit this year's report as the President of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, and the annual report refers only to the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency in 2013 while the Annual Report for 2013 has now been presented and adopted in the Croatian Parliament in September of last year. The Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in 2013 continued its work to achieve regulatory objectives and principles on electronic communications and postal services markets. The objectives and principles include the protection of competition, the protection of users of services, and effective management of limited national natural resources such as the radio spectrum, as well as the address and number space, and have been established by the annual work programme of HACOM for 2013. Highlights in HACOM's work were placed on the preparation of markets, market stakeholders, entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, promotion of effective investments, innovation with the provision of competition and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, promotion of regulatory predictability, prevention of discrimination in the treatment of operators, ensuring a high level of consumer protection, and effective management of natural goods to HACOM. A special emphasis was placed on... Internet access and increase investment in infrastructure and new technologies in the electronic communications market, as well as in the consistent application of the new Postal Services Act to speed up the full liberalisation of this market as part of the EU Single Market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our opinion, HAKOM met the objectives set out in the annual work programme and has provided conditions for stable business in electronic communications and postal services markets while at the same time the level of consumer protection is significantly increased. At the HACOM's centre was the completion of the tasks defined by the Strategy for the development of broadband access in the Republic of Croatia and the implementation programme of the Strategy for the development of broadband access to the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2013 under which it is implemented, and the Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state care, mountain and mountainous areas and islands that HAKOM intends to complete by the end of 2016 and to return to the market and society around 100 million kuna. Work has continued to strengthen its own capabilities and the benefits of end-users through further development of e-agency and professional training. Among the many activities undertaken in order to develop the electronic communications market in Croatia, HACOM particularly emphasises the following: the allocation of the remaining digital dividends to mobile communications operators has increased opportunities for further significant investment in infrastructure and development of new applications, as well as ensuring availability of fast broadband internet access to a larger number of citizens in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, with particular emphasis on access in rural and less developed areas. In this respect, the State budget collected one-off fees of €300 million and an annual fee of €32 million, which will continue to be paid until the end of the 2024 licence, amounting to a total of more than € 350 million. I note that with the allocation of the remaining third of the digital dividend, the state budget has become richer by around 370 million kuna so that since the sale of the digital dividend, the State budget of the Republic of Croatia has received over a billion kuna. In 2012, HAKOM launched state aid for the development of a broadband system in rural areas according to the HACOM programme for Internet development and broadband Internet access in areas of special state care, mountain and mountainous areas and islands, which was included in the implementation plan of the Strategy for the development of broadband access in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012-2013. The aim and purpose of the support is to balance regional development, bring together target groups such as school, health and public institutions on a network of broadband Internet access and introduce applications and services that dynamicise the economy and improve the quality of life in those areas. By defining the single transfer procedure of end-users from one operator's services to another, the mutual rights and obligations of the operator in that case have been evened out. The single claim for compensation is an additional step in improving competition in the Republic of Croatia. The issue of regulating regulated prices internationally accepted by the cost model methodology is of crucial importance for all participants of this market and the cost model project allows, among other things, the calculation of the real cost of services and this project was completed in 2014. In accordance with the 2012-2015 Implementation Programme of the Strategy for the development of broadband access to the Republic of Croatia. HACOM has established continuous monitoring of possible network neutrality difficulties, such as complaints from users on blocking and slowing the speed of Internet access as a assumption of uninterrupted development of applications and information society services, has been created and released into operation – a tool to measure broadband speed. Although communication between M to M machines is part of the Internet of Things, the area at the initial stage of significant growth, estimated to include up to 10 billion devices in the whole world of HACOM, has already identified an appropriate numbering plan for these services by 2011. Of the new services, special attention has been given to the preparation of the regulatory framework for computerisation... as one of the fastest growing branches in today's world of information and communication technology. According to official data on the electronic communications market in 2013 total revenue from slightly more than 12 billion kuna was achieved, down from around 2% compared to the previous year 2012. The cause of further decline in the overall income of this market is higher, and according to HACOM, similar examples in the world, the key causes of the decline in total income are primarily increased competition on the market and regulatory measures taken where users now use much more than before and pay a lower amount for the service. ... the prices of services reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the cause lies also in the country's recession, in the environment and delusions and slowdowns of operators in terms of investment and innovation in the network. The electronic communications market was ready and fully ready for Croatia's entry into the EU, but the operator's income in the Republic of Croatia has also fallen due to the automatic change and application of lower roaming prices and prices regulated at EU level and not more at the level of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that the electronic communications market in the Republic of Croatia in 2013 marked the further development of broadband services and interactive television, which confirms only the above. In fact, revenue from Internet access services increased the total revenue of the electronic communications market from around 19% in 2012 to around 21% in 2013 and the television content market represents a segment of the electronic communications market that records growth. However, due to this reason, this growth was not sufficient to compensate for the decline in revenue from other services. The growing demand for internet content and data services and the already continuous decline in revenues from telephone services in a network of immovable and mobile communications is only a continuation of trends from previous years. In 2013, there was a further increase in investment, i.e. in 2012, by slightly more than 7%, i.e. over 2 billion and 400 million kuna. Almost three-quarters of it in telecommunications infrastructure and equipment. This means that investments per capita in 2013 amounted to around 74 euros, much more than in 2011 when investments per capita amounted to slightly less than 48 euros. In 2013, we came significantly closer to the EU average in terms of investment per capita, and given that investments in new technologies today, which could compensate for the decline in income in traditional communications, yield results only in a few years' time, we expect a slight decline in total income to be in the coming years, means 2014 and 2015. It is encouraging that in 2013 there was an increase in the Internet’s innovation operator, i.e. for the implementation of new technologies, thus launching a series of pilot projects that examined the possibilities of these technologies in the commercial network. Internet use today represents an irreplaceable part of modern society and inevitable support for the development of information society. The technological basis of the information society is electronic communication infrastructure based on broadband internet access. The latest broadband services such as e-instruction, e-Health, TV via Internet protocol, work from home and others require adequate transmission capacities that can be achieved through light-to-water access infrastructure and relevant wireless technologies of the new generation. The continued growth of this part of the market in Croatia is evident through the continuous increase in total revenues from Internet access services and the increase in the number of connections over all these previous years. In fact, total revenues increased by around 7% in 2013. Compared to 2012, about 2.5 billion kuna, while the total number of connections in 2013 amounted to about 1 million 350 thousand, which is about 11% higher in the previous year. Wide access to the Internet is one of the basic needs of today's world, especially in the area of the economy. In its development in light-based cable access infrastructure, an increasing share is also taking up broadband access through a network of mobile communications, which also proves a steady growth in the number of users of broadband access services to this access network. At the end of 2013, about 423 thousand broadband connections for data services were recorded, almost 30% higher than at the end of 2012. Work can be found in traffic growth, strong services, attractive prices, a large number of devices available and user demand that it always has access to the Internet regardless of the time and place they are located. According to the density of broadband internet connections through a network of immovable communications by the Republic of Croatia, it belongs to a group of less developed countries compared to EU member states, and to the density of connections in mobile communications networks in a group of more developed EU countries. Regardless of the increase in users, there is room for even stronger growth in this segment, especially in the area of the light source network. That growth in the Republic of Croatia is necessary, among other things, because of the danger of deepening the digital gap between the Republic of Croatia and EU member states. In the Republic of Croatia, significant regional imbalances in number and density of broadband internet access connections in a network of immovable communications are present and this fact is currently a greater challenge than increasing the density of connections at national level. This regional imbalance was somewhat mitigated during 2013 by investing in rural areas and islands through HACOM's support programme as regulatory measures and the assignment of digital dividend and the introduction of LT technology into mobile communications networks. All general digitalisation of TV content broadcasting led to the growth of the TV programme's transmission market while paying compensation, so in the end of 2013, almost half of households used the TV programme's transmission service with the payment of compensation to one of the operators. This shows that citizens, regardless of the reduced purchasing power and the fact that they already pay one TV fee, are willing to pay extra TV content. A large share of households use only a digital terrestrial signal for receiving TV content due to the growing demand for service packages is expected to increase the number of connections through other technologies because operators will increasingly connect internet access services to TV program transmission services due to the growing preference of end-users for the service package with the payment of fees. Also, the EVO TV billing service from the Croatian Post Office of the Croatian Post Office is a new unique service on the market that has provided users in the large area of the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of watching TV programs through the Earth's digital TV signal during 2013. Since the work started only in December 2012 and the share of users in the total market in 2013 was relatively small. In order to allow for a simple and rapid transmission of the number for end-user, HACOM directed for most of the activities related to this problem to improve the number transfer process in such a way as to pay particular attention to the administrative number transfer process and to the upgrade of the system used in the number transfer process was finally brought to an end. It's also made according to... project, pilot project on the base of electronic communication infrastructure in the part of the City of Zagreb area where the model of the information system of the base and web applications with individual functionality is presented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The continuation of activities leads to a single base for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, as the building and access and use of electronic communications infrastructures and networks are becoming increasingly important. As a source of significant revenue, but also as one of the foundations for obtaining money from EU funds. The harmonisation of existing rules with the Law on Electronic Communications and the relevant EU directives has been completed. HAKOM carried out a number of checks on services with a special tariff, a new Regulation on the way and conditions of carrying out the activities of electronic communications networks and services in 2013 and some of the obligations for service operators with a special tariff have been amended to make the use of services transparent for end-users and thus to achieve an even greater protection of end-users. The HAKOM Council adopted a new regulation on universal electronic communications services that needed to be aligned with the amendments to the law and the Universal Services Directive should be adapted to the markets. The most important provision obliges the operator to ensure the speed of data transmission to the access lines in its electronic communications, in all electronic communications networks of at least one megabit per second. A related service operator was declared obliged to coordinate the provision of universal services by 1 January 2015 at the latest, and until then we have an obligation to ensure data transfer of at least 144 kilobits per second. A large part of the spectrum control business once again referred to the measurement of the radio frequency spectrum belonging to the Republic of Croatia, which is unauthorized by Italy not only in the area of Istria, but also in the entire coastal area of the Republic of Croatia. According to the measurement plan, all envisaged measurement campaigns have been successfully implemented, other measurements in the radio frequency spectrum with an emphasis on protection against unauthorized use of the RS radio frequency by Italy. During 2013, extensive measurements were carried out across the coast and islands aimed at monitoring the identification of the so-called interference from Italy. The measures resulted in the sending of new 596 international applications to the "disturbation of the Italian Republic administration" that Italy did not remove or resolve any disturbance reported during 2013. HAKOM addressed the European Commission and the International Telecommunications Community and took further action with the RS ministry. The first concrete results in removing these interferences from Italy can be expected in the second half of this year 2015 because our efforts have resulted finally in fruit, so Italy has adopted its new frequency plan which should start from April 1st this year. In addition to these measurements throughout the year, systematic measurements have been carried out to protect radio spectrum as a naturally limited asset of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The daily measurements were carried out from all 4 control centres and 7 remote-operated... measured stations while measured vehicles carried out periodic measurements. Radio spectrum control included measurements of the size of electromagnetic fields to protect human health from their effects in areas of increased sensitivity such as kindergartens, schools and the like. The results of the measurement were regularly checked by legal entities authorised to carry out the measurement of electromagnetic radiation. The postal services market in the Republic of Croatia was formally liberalised in early 2013 and, with the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU on 1 July 2013, became part of the EU's single market. The liberalisation of the market has slowed down the negative trend in the postal services market within several years, and the emergence of new postal service providers has enriched the offer with new postal services, and with the reduction of the prices of certain postal services segments, there has been an increase in the number of packages and services with... values along with the same decline in traditional postal services, which has led to a trend in the EU and in the developed countries of the world. On the postal services market in 2013 the number of services decreased by slightly more than 1% compared to the previous year. Out of the total number of services on the market, Croatian mail achieved a share of about 71% while other donors achieved a remainder of 29%. If we compare the number of services provided by the Croatian Post Office and other postal service providers during 2013 compared to the previous 2012. In the total number of services provided, Croatian mail increased by 3.5% while other providers dropped by around 11%. Croatia's post office remained a leading postal service provider in 2013, but its share in the total postal services market increased by 3%. In the structure of all other postal services, universal postal services accounted for approximately 54% of all services, other postal services about 26% and replacement postal services about 20%. In 2013, postal service providers made revenues totalling more than a billion kunas which are less than 3% compared to 2012. The main causes of the decline in total revenues are, in part, related to the adverse situation in the Republic of Croatia's economy, while the other part is linked to the stabilisation of the market that has contributed to the reduction of the prices of certain postal services by increased competition. At the end of 2013, 23 postal service providers who provided postal services were registered in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the application submitted. Croatian Post Office is the only universal postal service provider who has acquired the right and obligation to provide universal service throughout the Republic of Croatia under the Postage Services Act for 15 years. The operation of HACOM in the postal service market since the beginning of 2013 was primarily focused on the regulation of a fully open market with the aim of creating a level playing field for all providers, and in particular on the sustainable provision of a universal service with an emphasis on its quality, priced acceptability and availability so that all users have equal rights and the possibility to use this basic postal service for whose continuous operation is guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia throughout their territory. The efforts of HAKK together with HP have been made to achieve for the first time in 2013 all prescribed quality criteria for the provision of a universal service in domestic transport. Furthermore, taking into account the quality of universal service in relation to the density and network of postal offices and in general the importance of the work of postal offices for quality of life in rural areas, Croatia has kept more than 300 post offices from law and regulation of the prescribed minimum. During 2013, a total of 24 post offices were closed so that at the end of 2013, a total of 1018 offices were closed. The largest number of offices closed at border crossings with Slovenia and Hungary due to the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia when the need for their existence ceased, and during the closure of the office, the Croatian Post Office fully acted in accordance with the provisions of the universal postal service Regulation and provided for postal service users a minimum level of quality for the provision of universal postal services in accordance with the regulatory criteria. In 2013, HP received more than 23 thousand complaints from users on the provision of a universal postal service in internal transport, with 98% resolved within the time limit, determined its own responsibility for each of the 7 cases filed, or in about 3400 cases. During 2013 HAKOM received only 49 requests for the settlement of the dispute between the users and the postal service providers, and of the total number of requests received, most of these requests were rejected as unfounded and no administrative dispute was brought against those decisions before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. HAKOM continues to think that protecting users is the most subtle form of regulation of a market. In particular, the efficiency and protection of users depends on the confidence of the users in the market and the services offered, if the consumer's trust is missing, the serious growth of the market is at stake. This is why in 2013 we continued with intensive consumer protection, above all, paying great attention to preventive action, instructions and advice to end users on how to protect themselves and how to avoid the problem and create a presumption of open and simple communication with users, a quick and easy way to solve a possible problem. The dissatisfaction of the end-user is also recognised in the section Ask us where we answer the question of users and journalists as soon as possible. In most cases, users are referred to further handling and registration of users in order to achieve the dispute settlement procedure before HACOM via an internet application e-appeal. Registered users shall be able to monitor the status of the objection and obtain additional information as well as the state of completion of the documentation through that application. In addition, HACOM has started implementing... an e-tariff simulator, and the e-tariff simulator will provide users with the necessary information on the prices of public communications services as well as their changes without delay compared to the offer on the market. In order to achieve high consumer protection, HACOM has developed and has made it available to users tools to measure the speed of Internet access, etc. the HACOMMETAR already mentioned, which serves as a tool to produce evidence for non-fulfilment of contractually binding operators in the event of too low internet access rates lower than those specified in the contracts. Analysing the overall number of requests received to resolve end-user dispute in 2013 it can be concluded that users are increasingly aware of the possibility of achieving their applications objectively through the resolution of the dispute before HAK. The level of the complaint was at the level of 2012 meaning around 2300 complaints of which the vast majority referred to complaints in business and complaints in the conclusion and termination of the contract where around 90% of the complaints were reduced for the quality of the services and they completely disappeared almost... various prize games as well as special tariff services [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is the consequence of the great hacom engagement. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Fellows and colleagues please either you will conduct the interviews outside the hall or we will listen. Please.]] In order to protect end-users, HACOM implemented monitoring and implementation of a series of regulatory measures, including child protection and access to disabled persons services. When we talk about child protection, considering that children are in danger when crossing the road and that part of the service provider is treated as a market. HACOM intensified activities related to the promotion, protection of children, when using the Internet, electronic communications services, and thus joined and supported the action of a safer Internet for children and young people for which the brochure was prepared for children and parents with detailed instructions on protection and... the use of electronic communications services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Special attention is given to promoting parental responsibility and prescribing the obligations of the operator... communication networks according to which parents may request their operator to set up a ban on access to non-suitable facilities for children, restrictions on the use of services with special tariffs and restrictions on consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to children, the operator is asking for socially responsible behavior that needs to be beyond what is legally prescribed. As part of the implementation of the project, the award of services of social importance in the Republic of Croatia HAKOM reserved the sixth-digital short codes for services of social importance, services with special social sensitivity are included in the call center for missing children, the call center for victims of crime, the call centre for children and the call centre for the medical call center for emotional assistance that are harmonised in the area of Europe. Since a society that does not care for persons with disabilities is not a human society, HACOM continued to participate in the advisory mechanism of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, Operators and HACOM in 2013. As part of the work of the advisory mechanism, the possibility of improving access to services to blind and impaired persons has been discussed and a free entry of mobile devices to the Croatian Association of Blind for Testing has been reached between HACOM operator and association. The testing of mobile devices in the Croatian Institute of Blinds is determined which devices can be recommended to blind and impaired persons, given their technical characteristics and ease of handling. It also continues to work on educating sales staff of operators for proper communication with blind and impaired persons. In the framework of the international cooperation, HAKOM actively participated in the work of international working groups, then working groups in the international telecommunication Union... , in the field of electronic communications and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the area of the postal services market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The excellence of the work and importance of HACOM has also been confirmed by calls for several important global conferences where HACOM experts gave lectures. And I am particularly emphasising from international institutions on the European Regulator for Electronic Communications Berek where the excellence of the work and reputation of HAKOM is recognised by the fact that the post of Vice-President Berek is assigned to Mr Jurjevic, who is present with me at the Assembly's meeting. In the context of domestic cooperation, I stress particularly good co-operation with all ministries, state administration bodies and units of regional and local self-government as well as with other regulatory authorities and agencies. In addition, cooperation with universities in Zagreb, Split and Osijek should be highlighted. During 2013 HACOM has implemented more software applications with... improving business processes, using Internet-oriented technologies and introducing tools that allow... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cooperation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] regulatory processes as well as communication with end-users, so employees and users quickly accept them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important programmes aimed at increasing organisational and individual groups and regulatory skills were interdisciplinary and postgraduate studies of the regulation of the electronic communications market at the University of Zagreb and the project View of the Future in cooperation with universities from Zagreb, Split and Osijek. Then perfecting foreign languages, especially English. At the end of 2013, 172 workers were employed in HAKOM, of which high and higher professional equipment has over 82% of workers who are dominated by electricity engineers who make up 40% of employees, followed by economists who make up 18%, traffic engineers with 13% and lawyers 17%. While 18% are employed with other calls. What we are particularly proud of is the average age below 40 with an average working experience over 10 years and by birth structure the ratio is about half half. A few words about financial business at the end. HAKOM is not a beneficiary of the state budget but is financed by compensation from market users which regulates and accounting is managed in accordance with the Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations, the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Postage Services. The total income of HACOM in 2013 amounted to slightly more than 160 million kuna and total expenditure amounted to just over 103 million kuna. HACOM's total investments in 2013 amounted to nearly 14 million kuna. This appropriation is intended to cover: And from that programme in 2013 it was paid close to 19 million kuna until the end of 2016. HACOM returns the market to society another 75 million kuna. With HAKOM paying 30 million kuna in 2014, the same amount is planned to be paid in this year. In accordance with the applicable legal provisions, HAK has charged nearly 700 million kuna of revenue in 2013 in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the payment of fees for the right to use... addresses and numbers and fees for powers and licences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention. And during the debate if Madam Vice-President of the Parliament let me directly answer your questions. If I'm not on the occasion right now, then I'll give you the answers later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99134	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In a whole series of critical steps that we very often get to hear here and from the ranks of our club we always need, we always say that these criticisms are to improve. And now I'm going to take the opportunity to point out HACOM as an extremely positive experience because that's what I'm supposed to say. One of the biggest obstacles most often used in attracting investors in Croatia is bureaucracy, and here I have to give an example. I remained truly pleasantly surprised as mayor in the 9th month 2013, the report refers to this, the investor from Austria so Duropack brought us another new investment, and we had to change the urban planning of the city and the spatial plan of the city's arrangement, to obtain, among other things, consent and we came to teaton, i.e. the investor came to teat. I have not yet experienced it and this should be said as a positive example to other agencies that within 1 day the problem has been solved and to our satisfaction here in our city is the investor's arrival and almost 20 jobs have been opened. If we hadn't been able to solve it, and I said it, and I said it's about the need to bring in the investor, here I am, and I'm using this opportunity to thank you. I've never seen them before, and here's what's positive to say positively. I think it could be an example to other agencies to prove that it's not really, everything in Croatia doesn't have to be and unfortunately it's burdened by bureaucratic obstacles. Together, we can also create an environment for investors to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99136	Thank you very much. Next replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99137	Dear fellow Buric, I am not replicating you, but at the opening exhibition, I have the opposite example of your example, I actually have questions to ask Mr. Lucic, which he said, he spent a lot of time in his debate on Internet access, Malta, not that we became a world force, that we became without any problems in accessing the Internet. Now I'm going to ask you to explain to us since I'm a layman, I don't know, I've been on Cres Island for 25 years and every weekend when I get there, I'm out of the Internet and without a phone, every weekend. Then they say we'll come on Monday when I leave the island, they come on Monday and I pay the Internet for a year and I don't have a year of Internet because every wind that blows up, which is why the optical cable. You used to say that islands have, that they have rural areas etc., that's a lie, that's not true. The island of Cres depends on the Internet access to every wind, so explain to us why it is manipulated by the islanders, without saying what is not in your jurisdiction, about the fact that there is no television signal, etc. Because they are citizens of no other order, they are citizens of the 35th order in this case in particular. And I'd still ask you a question, I guess in the closing statement you'll say, those all the complaints we've been receiving, which I talked about two or three years ago, I don't know when I was talking about, and that's the question of the amount of costs that HACOM spends per square metre for renting space, parking spaces and everything else, I guess we'll get from you because of the DORH that selectively handles the applications we didn't get anything. replica
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99138	Replication response, Drazen Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99139	Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for your questions and comments. I agree with you that the area of coverage... is very important for Croatia. I didn't say it was good but I'm just saying it's getting better and we're trying to catch up on Europe. It is our support program that goes in this direction to improve the situation where it is unsatisfactory, and these are primarily islands and rural areas. That I fully agree with your opinion. We here and as regulator and normally together with all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia must do far more because this HACOM programme is only a drop in the sea. What can help us much more are the European Union funds where the Primorje-Gorski County and this area is extremely active and already has prepared documentation and we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros that we are trying to withdraw from these funds and we hope that in a few years, not only on Cres, on all 50 inhabited islands and... the territory of the Republic of Croatia the situation will be far better. For the second part of your question, I don't know exactly what it's about, there's been a lot of bribery about HACOM's business. I don't intend to comment on DORH's work. If you have any questions you can see for yourself, all of you, like ladies and gentlemen, MPs, are always welcome with us at HACOM to see what we do. Some of your colleagues and colleagues were so that HACOM played a very important social role. We are the regulatory body responsible for effective management... of spectrum. If there are any objections to our work there are parliamentary committees and a normal Parliament to assess it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99140	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99141	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So one of the basic objectives and principles that you, as regulator, or HACOM, do not personally act, is to promote competition and ensure the protection of users of services. In the report when we talk about the protection of users, although of course we have 5 million users of mobile networks, communication, 1.5 million telephone connections, 1.3 million broadband connections and over half a million households, so an extremely large number of citizens of this country are included. Data that can always be relative in statistics, but I believe that they are extremely important to highlight and point out the need for the regulator to do certain supervision in this matter, which is related to the accounts and objections, related to the accounts that are in total as mentioned here are 53 988 objections adopted for the accounts and 21 238 which have been rejected. So it's an extremely large number, regardless of the number of users, which in any case indicates that besides informing citizens that it's extremely important to control the way it's handled, and we all know that it's done computerically and most often the operators say the computer has thrown it out. He didn't throw it out without a man bringing something in. And what I would just like to point out very badly in a certain way is a bad message that says that you clearly define and do on this issue child protection part of the service provider treats children as a market. It is clear that today everything is in a way market, but treating children as a market especially from operators is a very, very sensitive issue that should be given an extremely large amount of emphasis and additional protection primarily because your primary role is consumer protection, and the role of all of us is child protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99142	Replication response, Drazen Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99143	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for your questions and comments. As far as objecting to the user's account is concerned, I agree that it never prevents much. We think that the basis of the advertising problem, because it is not only HACOM, there are other ministries and other institutions, other inspections that need to be taken into account whether this advertising really leads to a lack of understanding of what the user should later pay or not. So the source of this account misunderstanding is often in the way of making a contract, where the user thinks it's just a single kuna or costs zero kuna, and later it turns out that's not the case. So this will certainly lead HAKOM, along with other institutions that are responsible for this area, to make more accounts that users are informed in advance, to know what they are signing and how much their account will be. And we believe that our own aid that will soon be released will help users to see how much a certain tariff will actually come at the end of the month for some of their monthly consumption. I agree for the protection of children never enough activity about it, we try with the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, then with CARNET to encourage certain activities for children at an early age, first-class children and parents to be aware of dangers that lurk not only classically on the phone, but also on the internet, so that our efforts, we have already strengthened them in 2014 and in 2015 we will strengthen them even more to avoid cases that have occurred in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99144	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99145	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, esteemed HACOM representatives. By way of derogation from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Railway Market Regulation Agency has joined the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency in such a way as to establish a single national regulatory body for the regulation of the electronic communications market, postal services markets and rail markets. This report is divided into nine chapters. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU marked 2013 and in the markets of electronic communications and postal services. In the framework of its competence and in cooperation with other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, HAKO has adapted both markets to the EU regulatory framework in a timely manner as a national regulatory body. In my debate, I will look back on only three segments of this report. The first segment of electronic communication according to official data on the electronic communications market in 2013 reached a total of revenue of 12 billion and 68 million kuna, down about 2% from 2012. The key causes of the fall in total income according to HACOM are the economic crisis in the country and the environment, the fall in purchasing power of the population of the Republic of Croatia, the application of the EU regulatory framework, and the objectives of the operator in relation to investments and innovation in the network that are subordinated to the financial objectives, above all profits. The electronic communications market is one of the strongest branches of the economy and as such one of the key pillars of each modern society. Investments in this sector can help to start investments in other sectors of the economy as well. Despite many good events within the electronic communications market, however, we record the following data. The total revenue of the electronic communications market falls 6 years in a row, and in the period from 2011 to 13 billion and 332 million kuna to 12 billion and 68 million kuna in 2013 which is the difference, i.e. A loss of a billion and 264 million kuna, which is not negligible. The biggest revenues bring the mobile network services market, mobile phone services carry 22%, internet access services 20%, TV services only 4.50%. What do we know about the total market for electronic communications? Operators in the immovable network have 49, mobile network operators 3, mobile service users in a fixed network of million 430 thousand and 644 users. In the mobile network 4 million and 912 thousand 134 for 2013. So we can say that there's almost no citizen who doesn't have one phone, and some obviously more. When we talk about users of broadband services, we talk about a million and 347 thousand users of which in a fixed public communications network 923000 and in a mobile 423000 users. The number of users of TV services is also growing, and it stands for 2013. 701 thousand and 927. We have 160 radio networks and six digital television networks. Total investments by telesec operators are growing but have not reached 2008. The total income of telephone services in the mobile network is 6 billion and 50 million kuna and is lower than in 2011 by 877 million kuna. The density and number of phone users in the mobile network at the end of 2013 is 4 million and 912 thousand users. In fact, more and more users decide on only one operator, which is the trend expected and in the following period. When we talk about the number of subscribers of users without a subscription relationship, we need to find that the number of subscribers with subscribers is reduced, and the number of subscribers with a subscription relationship is increasing. The market shares of the operator are: HT 46.88%, VIP 37% and TELE 2 15.59% from 2013. The decline in roaming income has been visible since 1.07.2013 since EU entry. Although we are talking more than in 2011 the revenues are lower than in 2011 by 150 million kuna. The total income from fixed network telephone services is lower by €683 million compared to 2011. So we're talking about that fixed grid. Given that the end-users of the year-to-year phone service in fixed networks are increasingly replacing telephone services in mobile networks, the fall in revenues from these services is logical. The number of phone users in the immovable public communications network – in 2011 we had a million and 606 thousand 90 connections, and in 2013 a million and 430 thousand, which means almost 275,000 less connections in the immovable network. The development of broadband services is of exceptional importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and is essential for the establishment of a knowledge society in the Republic of Croatia. Wide access to the Internet is becoming one of the basic needs of today's world, and in its development the growing share is also taking a wide-ranging approach through the mobile network, which also proves a steady increase in the number of users and revenues from broadband access services through mobile networks. The total revenue from the Internet access service in 2011 was 2 billion and 109 million kuna in 2013. 2 billion and 511 million kuna. So it's one of the segments where income increases for almost 402 million kuna. The density of broadband internet connections through an immovable network in the EU and Republic countries in this relationship is 21.56% at the bottom of all EU scales while we are in mobile networks above the EU average. As much as the availability of broadband internet access is almost daily spread by some regions, which were also discussed by a council representative, rural areas, islands can hardly expect to have a wide-ranging approach in the near future. For the Republic of Croatia, it is equally important to work towards reducing the digital gap between citizens of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia in order to strengthen the entire society economically and socially. When we talk about the density of fixed broadband connections, there is the highest density in Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb, and the smallest density is recorded in Požeko-Slavon County. When we talk about data traffic, i.e. The gigabytes need to determine that citizens are surfing more and more in fixed nets as popularly said in us, and the number of gigabytes spent compared to between two years, so in 2011, it was 188 million gigabytes, and in 2013. 315 in a fixed network while in mobile networks it increased by almost 400%. This clearly shows that we became addicted to the Internet and that gigabytes really fly at high rates or percentages. According to the latest available data, the total number of service users increased by about 56%. When we talk about television services, revenues from TV services are almost 100 million kunas higher than in 2011. In Croatia, the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of TV programmes in 2010 has been successfully completed and digital television networks have been developing and building ever since. The end-users today expect new TV service operators and the introduction of HDTV programs, 3D video content and multi-channel sound. In the Croatian market for electronic communications, liberalisation has largely been implemented but further regulatory activities are needed to achieve the target position of the competitive market, modelled by the most developed European countries. Despite the growing number of operators and service providers in the Croatian electronic communications market, there are still operators with significant market power that have a ruling position. When we talk about the basic stations of the GSM network, we can find that in 2013, there was, that number is growing and that in 2013, there were 5077 in the entire Republic of Croatia. And here are the problems with the interference. Although the problem of Italian interference... Croatian radio and television programmes along the Adriatic coast of the Republic of Croatia dates back several decades further distortion of the quality of digital television reception began in the coastal part of Istria in December 2010 with the beginning of the transition to DTV in northern Italy. By further digitisation in Italy by the end of 2011, the interference spread to the rest of the Adriatic coast of the Republic of Croatia until Prevlaka. HAKOM conducted extensive measurements during 2013, but the Italian Republic's administration did not respond to a single application by HACOM. When we talk about the postal services market, the postal services market or postal services market and in modern society have kept their significant role both in economic and social development, regardless of the major changes that have occurred on the communication market, only that traditional postal services have adapted to new trends in the environment. Total number of postal services in millions, 2011 we had 364 million postal services, 2013. 339 C.E. 25 million postal services less. The largest number of postal services, 240 million of them made Croatian mail as the ruling postal service provider in the Republic of Croatia with a market share of approximately 71% while the other providers reached 99 million. Total revenue from the provision of postal services with a billion and 526 million kuna in 2011 fell to a billion and 426 million kuna in 2013. So on that market, we're recording less than 100 million kunas. All postal service providers have shown revenue of 132 million kuna since the provision of replacement postal services in 2013. In late 2013, HP had 1018 postal offices, which is more than the prescribed minimum. During 2013 The Croatian post office closed down a total of 24 post offices. HAKOM agreed to the proposed closures of the post office. In slightly less than 200 post offices, working hours have been changed. Most of the changes were about a cut in working hours. When we talk about the assets of HACOM's financial assets in kuna on 31.12., it is 120 million and 644 thousand kuna. Of which, 47 million kunas were armed in banks. When we look at payments to the state budget in 2012, 791 million 650 thousand were paid and 2013. 681 million and 57 thousand kuna, almost 110 million kuna. I want to conclude in the end that this report is comprehensive, high-quality and preconceived. Despite the progress of technology and investment in teleoperate revenues, almost all services fall from year to year. We know that there are many problems that we are informed of and daily citizens especially problems with accounts, but we believe that HAKOM in that part of the work is what its tasks are, and that is to be the regulator of that market. This report is truly comprehensive, quality-developed and clearly showing all the activities of HACOM in 2013. As such, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, such a report is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99146	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation, we have a replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99147	Dear fellow Boric, although these last sentences have almost not been heard because of the noise in the assembly I will try to replicate you. In fact, there is nothing to add with these figures, but you mentioned the same interference, and in one replica I also mentioned the disturbances of TV reception in the area, in the Adriatic area mainly on the islands, Istria. And you mentioned five hundred protests against the Italian Republic. However, this can be resolved. The Italians are deafening the signal by strengthening the signal. We need to fight those resources they serve. Nothing's gonna help him with another five hundred. He spoke earlier when we join the EU, then we'll settle it, we won't solve it, and the Italians won't cut the signals. There is therefore a solution that experts say. This when you spoke optical cable, you said it was hard for citizens in rural areas and in islands to access the internet at any time soon. When we were making phone lines, I was talking about Cres Island, and then we made contracts to pull the cable underground within five years because it was known that it couldn't be maintained. That was 25 years ago. I think HACOM has a lot to do here. There's no problem with money there, the problem is law enforcement, the problem is that HACOM allows law enforcement. Because Croatian telecom was supposed to fill out what he was doing. It's a crime, this is criminally how telecoms treat citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99148	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99149	Thank you very much. So this HACOM report always challenges certain observations and practical experiences of citizens that our market is not perfect. It obviously needs to be better and it is the task of all teleoperators, all other operators in other areas to achieve it in some period ahead of us. There's an agency that's in charge of it, and according to this report, I can't say that they didn't do anything. So if they've sent and done measurements, when we talk about these disturbances in the Adriatic, and they've sent 536 applications to the Italian administration, it means the Italian administration, I think it might be appropriate for you on the other hand to be correct and at least to say what to fix. We know what's going on, they're breaking into our spectrum, and with stronger signals, they're interfering with our signal. But who will fight it? I mean, here's what I'm not going to do, but I think they've done a lot of their job. And now there's probably more policy levels in that segment that maybe you should do something about it. When we talk about communication infrastructure, we know what we have now in the Republic of Croatia, and it says here, "The cable sewerage route is 21 800 km, the country's cable route is 26 300 kilometers, the route of the underground electronic communications network is 33,000 kilometers." Had 210 000 pillars for electronic communications networks. I said that the number of GSM stations was growing, and this year, 5077 of them were growing last year, and the others I didn't say and I can't say that the telecom operators didn't invest in that system. Of course, now we come to another problem, the citizens rebel against it, and they don't want it near their homes, their apartments and houses. The agency has done its job again, however, will have to find a way to satisfy both the user and, apparently, that the telecommunications operator can uninterruptedly develop its network.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99150	Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs will now normally stop discussing the topic on the agenda, We're going back to the subject on the agenda. It is next to the HNS club and the respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals. Wait until the MPs are ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99152	Who's thinking of going out? Let's go out. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, representatives of HACOM, colleagues and colleagues. So I would first praise the report that was very comprehensive and comprehensively made, so here is the President of the Council for a full half hour to present to us all the data that has been extensively statistics on this report. The operation of HACOM in the past period has been assessed very successfully by the very basis of this report, taking into account the fact that usually what we talk about most when we talk about the market for telecommunications and postal services we talk about from the consumer position and we usually speak critically, of course, given that we are ultimately mostly recipients of their accounts which are most often not very enthusiastic because despite the market, despite the competition, we are still very, very high. However, we must point out that HAKOM has indeed undertaken a whole series of activities in the past, especially by entering Croatia and by the date of Croatia's entry into the EU in adaptation, i.e. in the regulation of the market not only of telecommunications but also of postal services. What I would still like to praise, I think someone in my debate has also pointed out this is an extremely good collaboration with those consumers who are otherwise not considered to be such, but they are. These are units of local and regional self-government, i.e. the needs of local and regional self-government within that market. I must say that not only am I from my position as head of a local self-government, but also a whole series of other colleagues commended me on the response of HACOM to the requirements that the local self-government units referred to them to, and most of the same applies to the protection of citizens' rights, but also to local self-governments in relation to operators and telecommunications, but also to postal services where HACOM with the help and only with the help of HACOM we could and we can come up with some data that very often unhappi operators are particularly willing to give to local self-government units. And units of local and regional self-government definitely have the right to have certain revenues based on the fact that operators are using the network, but that we don't return that story at the time when we're talking about the DTK network we know that we haven't yet solved this problem and that only a small part of the local self-government unit in a small part actually manages to charge for a part of the service on that network that we're arguing whether it's ours or that famous sales contract belongs to T-Com. Some steps have been taken. I hope that in time, too, that problem will be resolved. But I'd just like to draw attention and you can see it inside this report. In fact, the operators during this period of 2013 and I assume that this will be seen in the 2014 report obviously realised that it is necessary, that stronger and larger investments are needed. So, more and more investment is being made in equipment and in the network, and as far as operators are concerned, I must also commend projects on which HAKOM is working, but it also works on local and regional self-government, which is a promotion, i.e. the introduction of a broadband internet into the edge areas, i.e. in regionally neglected spaces with that network in the Republic of Croatia, and praise projects called e-Zupanija in some places and in some other ways, and also mentioned by Mr President of the Council in particular Primorje-Gorskiska where all units of local self-government are involved in a project that will develop a system of broadband internet, but not only as a network, but also a better service. [[/Intruding Stazić: Fellows and colleagues, let's be collegiate. My colleague's talking. If you don't care so you can get out of the assembly, but don't disturb her while she's talking. Thank you.]] So the possibility of a fast internet because it's a key thing today. In fact, we have a network only a question of its quality and its speed, which is a direct link of course and with the possibility of developing in certain areas and economic activities and economic activities. And I think it's done a lot. I am not sure whether HAKOM will be able to invest further in such projects in the coming period, but also for the future period, it may be possible to invest from income in such projects because it seems to me that it is one of the chances that some of Croatia's parts of Croatia, both of which were talking about islands and edge parts of the regions in Croatia, are interested in potential investors and, ultimately, some enterprise. It is not rare that people do very, very important and very complex jobs from some remote places and service some large industrial branches or work as projectors or consultants etc. So, the chance with the development of broadband internet, I think it's multiple for the entire Republic of Croatia in terms of economic development. What I want and at first I said is to emphasize HACOM is a regulator, HACOM is not in a position to favor or to work in a way that exclusively takes sides of one whose results will be better. We see that individual operators, i.e. the overall revenues of operators, fall into certain segments that were expected, not only for the sake of the economic situation in our country but also in the region, so I would say more widely. And also because of the progress of technology that is relatively difficult to adapt given the real state of investment and the network we have. So this transition to increasing use of internet services that of course produced a decline in these standard services means voice services. Most of us, I suppose, already have a fixed network and uses a fixed network almost nothing, or just as much as necessary to use a fixed Internet network. So one good part of us would probably cancel all fixed phones tomorrow if they weren't connected to another type of service. And it is quite realistic that in the next period it will fall even more, especially with the progress of technology that will allow for the possibility of such communication in some other ways, that service. I'm no expert, but I suppose very quickly various wireless methods of data transfer will de facto produce that some of these services will almost disappear, so it is not surprising that this service is falling on that market and that the overall decline is not too great at the moment. Because I have to point out here it's a huge market, it's total when we talk about postal services and telecommunications services about more than 13 billion kuna revenue from those who do those services. And it is certainly our interest here, the Republic of Croatia, of course, that HAKOM on such a strong, powerful, influential market, or those taking part in that market, is primarily the one that protects the consumer of the citizen but also all the participants in that market, which are both self-government and other institutions to protect us in a way that does not lead us into a position that we are dependent on them and that we cannot interrupt and terminate the contracts, that we cannot control their accounts, their mistakes that are measured by millions in Lips, of course millions again. And there have been many cases that unfortunately it has been found that such mistakes have been made. How purposeful or unintentioned they were likely to be of someone else’s judgment. Very brief on the post office. What our citizens are most interested in about the post office, and you are here and in the report quite extensively reported it is related to post offices. The traditional service that our citizens are all looking at, and even I would say from a conservative emotional point of view that the place as such and the smallest place, the question is, does it exist and if there is no small school, mail and church? I think that although this technology has gone so far forward and we have all these opportunities to have electronic equipment that we can communicate very quickly and efficiently, it still belongs to a younger generation. Unfortunately, in those regions that are borderline, we have the oldest population. So it's a population that hasn't been able to master all techniques and technologies in order to communicate quality and even less pay online bills or something. So, these post offices that cover all of Croatia, which are in every almost almost place, I think should be very carefully closed and I think that there is influence here and HACOM. And in the talks with the Croatian Post Office, I think it is very careful and over time that we should do a quality analysis of what and when to close so that one part of our population is not completely excluded from certain possibilities or from what is crucial, and that is that one such service that Croatia is offering is a post, starting with paying the bill through sending a letter or getting a letter not to disappear simply because the market will determine that it must be so. We have done a lot here, and we have passed a law that protects Croatia's mail, but I don't think it would be good to run over it with only the method of the market and only the method of the market and the commercial success of Croatian mail. She'd compliment and there's like this one detail actually recorded the introduction of a hacker. I think there's been a lot of comments from our citizens or users, and that's exactly what I said before, the quality of internet connections, the speed of internet connections, and it's obvious that we're going to have to create as much pressure on investment in that network as possible to meet the standards and for which we're going to get accounts that are adequate to what's been delivered, or what's agreed on. And one little, little remark somewhere on one page of the summary you have a shortcut for the ministry that is your jurisdiction, so you are responsible for the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and here is a shortcut for the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. So the ministry changed its name in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99153	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Hope you said what a quick Internet and this stuff is. And in the great part of Korcula every storm brings us great harm. So financial damage to households because every storm, thunder comes to damage not only the phone system but the set and TV receivers because they're more or less all connected to the Internet since the area, which we just talked about hard watching TV programs to configure the places and the Italian networks that are much stronger, so big damage comes on average to get 1,000 kuna each thunderstorm to certain families. I would also ask HACOM to look at and to control the extent of the damage and the extent of the interventions of the users themselves, i.e. the provision of services of partners who intervene on the ground. But those damages that no one makes up for, and that's really already a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99155	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in my debate, I may not have yet said one detail that, that you were right about the whole network at one point stopped investing sufficiently intensively and especially in some border areas where there was no interest, commercial interest of the operator. However, what I mentioned is that certain and regional self-governments are going into activity, in fact building their own network, that is, the possibility of giving the network to operators but most modern, means that the cables that we are going to be able to give to individual operators tomorrow are then being able to serve precisely because of what we have at this point is questionable, which is whose and who has to, whether or not they have to invest, or whether they have to pay or not. These opportunities are open, opportunities are also open for such larger projects and for investment in such infrastructure to be managed through EU funds. And I think that there should be local and regional self-government more proactive in some places than it is at this point because, of course, by introducing this new infrastructure and new technology, all of these ground-based cables and all of what we have and today is not how it should be today, most modernly laid down in such a way that atmospheric opportunities do not affect the quality of the service or at all the inaccessibility of the service which is a common case in the good part of Croatia, especially where there was no commercial interest in investing it. Here, my recommendation is to engage both local and regional self-government on these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99157	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99158	Dear Comrade Turina-Djuric, here I am from this last one you just said. Look, European funds have been mentioned before. There are obligations of telephony from a contract from the former state. So even when we introduced phone lines 20, 25 years ago, that's when the altitude cable was past. So that's one thing. The second thing, of course, is that there can be solved by the interference of the TV signal. Today you have cable TVs that have been lifted up to satellite and via satellite you get, but you need to pay 80 or 100 kuna more. So to watch public television, you have to pay public television, and it's unconstitutional to pay for what you can't get a favor. So those who don't get a public television service shouldn't pay. You still need to pay 80 or 100 kunas to envy who the operator is to have a picture of public television via satellite. And of course here's how much I'm told that it's in the experimental phase that the Internet will soon be the same over satellite so it will be. But also when it's stormy, you lose that picture too, and on the Internet, when you have cable TV. Opticals is a solution for islands. Market entry should also be conditional on covering both rural parts and islands. Whether it is marketable, it is marketable to set such conditions, to fight, someone will say we are in the EU and the EU has solved in different ways the same uncoveredness of some of its areas. Therefore, we cannot put citizens in rural areas, which are on islands, into categories 2, or third category of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99159	Thank you. Answer. Comrade Turina-Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99160	So I also said in my debate, and now just before in the replica of my colleague, Marelic that in one part of the market will solve, of course, whether it will be of commercial interest, some contracts that need to be respected by operators, about which it can probably be more than just investments to which they are committed, something more likely to be said by Mr. Lucic. However, the same answer again means in one part where this commercial interest will come and when it will come and realize some of the key commercial infrastructure projects is difficult to say. But there is a possibility that local self-government, the state, or the competent ministries in this area could be more mobilely significant and start with these projects. As we know, the open ones are really quite large amounts for the possibility of withdrawing funds, but the question is whether we will be able to prepare complete documentation. I know that some are already in a very high stage of that preparation, and I think that others should follow those examples. I think it would be relatively easy for me, the RH is relatively small spatial and I don't think it should be a bigger problem, but of course it depends on us. And then we can provide this service and the quality of this service at least in the network, at least in infrastructure, which is one of the basic preconditions for this quality to be in the whole of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99161	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your debate you listed two things I would particularly like to point out. One is that you noted that they must be covered primarily by the possibility of paying a DTK network fee within all local self-government units. On average, there's very few of them. from our experience where we have it, but individually, we couldn't achieve anything or help because we couldn't get from the authorities how long the network was, and we couldn't even agree on the level of the fee. It was even such a secret that the neighbor who was next to us got more compensation than anyone else in that part. Just including the county, and that's where I'm talking about Varazdin County, by pawning the mayor where we all sat down at the table at all we could come up with a certain amount of compensation that we still use today. Whether it's optimal or not, we still can't tell if it's satisfying the purpose. And that's why in those who don't have it at all when we say it 10 years from now, the unit price at the annual level is huge losses that local self-government has at the moment, which could get and invest in some other development. The second thing you said, you were talking about cutting mail. The same thing about the previous part is set to the level of what you take or leave what you are offered, you have no opportunities to negotiate, just in a way to look at the market principle, and especially in rural... and in the islands of mail are not profitable. But it was viewed only for the market principle only by those only mails, not at local or even at regional level. At the same time, one post office had a much bigger gain, and in some ways it wanted to balance itself, we couldn't achieve anything and unfortunately a lot of mail on those rural parts on the islands and, say, in the mountainous areas it was abolished, and you know that there was a nursing household and that there would be no...... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99163	Time, fellow Skuric. Thank you. My colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99164	That my colleague Skvarić understands your problems completely, that is, what you have pointed out, and that is why I have debated because I am also the head of a local self-government. Well, something's moved since we had HACOM. Our direct communication with T-Com or key operators and the collection of services and the DTK network was almost impossible to respond absolutely, or they came if they came with some data, they were not credible. But now I think the situation is changing, that we're through HACOM because HACOM is a body that they're much more afraid of than any local self-government unit in this country. HAKOM at their request they are obliged to provide us or them with information, and then we, along with HAK, can discuss with the operators how much compensation it would be for using that network. Of course, we are not in a very good position to get what we deserve or how many self-government in 20, 30, 50 years has invested everything in this because there are a whole number of other problems about resolving ownership issues over that network, but something has succeeded. It's a small shift, but it's a joyous one. I'm saying it's the right way for us as local self-governments to create our own network. Most of us don't know during a period of 10 or 15 years, almost all roads in our municipality and the city will dig up and do something about them, so it's an opportunity to start working our own network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99165	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99166	Thank you, Vice President. I see that most of the debates so far have been right to support this report. I will not accept this report because I believe that HACOM, or the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency, has failed to perform its role as regulatory body and, above all, in the post office section, and as far as telecommunications is concerned, I have a lot of major objections. What's mine is also a pretty big complaint is that today is 2015, February and we're discussing the 2013 report. When we talk about telecommunications and the post office, we are talking about an area that is very dynamic, which is developing very quickly, which is largely dependent on new technologies and upgrades of new technologies. And I think it is not good for the Croatian Parliament to discuss the report relating to this particular area, i.e. the regulatory body for this area, with such a long delay. And I hope that in the future, if we really want to be a country that wants to go towards new technologies, we will not discuss the information society in the future with such a great delay in such reports. When we talk about telecommunications, I'd say that HACOM was in this area as much as the regulator, and when we talk about how much the regulator was then I mean it wasn't entirely on the remote control from the government or from the companies. But it is evident that we are actually lagging behind in terms of quite a large number of developed countries from year to year, and before we could be proud that, given Croatia and Croatia's development, we were quite advanced in terms of telecommunications technologies. Why is that? Well, I think there's a whole series of reasons, but if we're talking about that company that used to be a state-owned company or a HT in talking to people who are experts in this area, I'd say it's a matter of maximising the profits, or it's not a lot of investment in new technologies, especially in those areas that aren't quite commercially profitable in that part. So today we have cases that not in such unurban parts of Croatia our citizens do not actually have access to new technologies, information technologies, have very big problems using the Internet whether it's a DTK network or a mobile network. The fact is that Croatia can be praised with a large number of hotspots or places where it can be surfed free of charge but I think it is not enough in relation to the overall technological development especially when it is known that modern development is largely dependent on fast transmission and quality transmission of information. When we talk about mail, I think there's a lot of leverage and that HACOM here is not a regulator at all, and we have a lot of lag behind other countries, and now I'm not just going to talk about developed countries or those countries that are much more advanced than us and in technologies and in the post office and in everything but even in relation to neighbouring countries. For example, in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which e.g. have a well-developed hybrid mail service. It is unfortunate that in Croatia unfortunately mail, Croatian mail when you address them with a request to provide you with such a service must respond or respond negatively. I think it's absolutely inadmissible. And I think that regulator should still do a lot of things to avoid such a bad situation happening in Croatia. As a party, we wanted to send a letter to our members using hybrid mail services. We spoke to the Croatian post office, of course, the result was devastating. That wasn't two years ago, that was months ago. I also assume that a good part of our colleagues and colleagues here in the Assembly received a performance that came from an anonymous email from HACOM employees who warned of very bad relations within the agency. This is about illegal layoffs, it's about mobbing, it's about persecution of unionists, it's about nepotism. Regulatory agencies should, in any case, be above the average and the average how to tell the bodies of others because they have to regulate relations in such important areas. And I find the play we've received quite alarming. And it would be good if, at the end of the day, the people who defend this report here, although I suppose it does not only refer to the period 2013 to which this report also refers to that part of the relations within the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency. Because if there is nepotism then the question can also be asked whether such a structure within the agency is even able to play the role of a quality regulator in such an important area. Here it is, I won't be longer, as I said at the very beginning, I won't accept this report because I don't think HACOM is a regulator and that it doesn't regulate relations, that in the last few years unfortunately we've started to stop in technological development when we talk about telecommunications. There's been a lot of talk about the post office situation. Here I was also approached by people from Solta who were unable to receive mail for a longer number of days or weeks because there were simply no postmen in that place. If someone gets sick, there are very big problems. People don't get their pensions or the rest. I think it is an absolutely unacceptable situation in yet a country which is a member of the European Union and I would like to appeal that in the coming years, that is, this year, work better in the field of service regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99167	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99168	Dear colleague Holly, yes, we all received or at least you received the see, I received one representation of the employee. I don't like to be anonymous because I think it's cowardice because of what needs to be signed, they should say they're risking work, we're all risking our job when we're speaking publicly, and when we're criticizing someone but I'm still going to insist on this one that after Mr. Lucic says, although he invited us to come to HACOM, to say here in the Parliament whether it's true that it pays 24 euros a square meter of rent space and which is why, if it's true why it's been done because we know how much it costs renting space in the City of Zagreb, extra space, all of what it says in that play, and we agreed two years ago where it was a much wider discussion about it. What you're saying is yes, I agree with you. Teleopers don't force them to invest. They want as much profit as possible in the shortest time. That's what we're witnessing. We never did sell companies, especially when we sold companies in the '90s, when we sold companies in 2000, when we didn't commit to those who bought companies, we didn't commit those who came to the Croatian market to treat workers as if they were irrelevant to us. We told them, "Behold, there is a people for you. There are workers for you. That's what teleopers do today. We still pay the most expensive or among the expensive we are services, bad services, we have a bad internet compared to others. Is HACOM on the remote control of the government and the company? If that's what you said, and I doubt it, it's on someone's remote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99169	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99170	Dear colleague, I cannot fully agree with you that people who are employed in such bodies and who address us have the same responsibility as we do. It is our job to speak for these citizens, and that is why it is our duty in my opinion to say what we have received as information. Of course, the fact that any information should be accepted in some way with a certain delay, but that is why it is the job of parliamentary deputies to speak and therefore we have ultimately parliamentary immunity, or that we cannot be prosecuted so as to say what we are saying in our workplace, or that we cannot be sued for libel. If we were to compare ourselves with ordinary conditional citizens, I think that we would come into a rather absurd situation and that citizens have the right to expect discretion from us, and eventually there is the possibility that a little survey within those people who work in such bodies is possible to see if absolutely everything is nonsense and false as it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99171	Thank you. Further to the debate, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to open up a little bit of an area where so far there has been no speech, and as far as user protection is concerned, it's about protecting the health of telecommunications service users, to be more specific. It seems to me that HAKOM should play this more active role because it participates in the processes in which telecommunications operators are allowed and the setting up of antenna pillars seems according to the 2012 regulation. What exactly does that mean in the field? There are indeed many independent studies already made in the world today that are not funded by telecommunications operators, which make it clear that it is very harmful radiation for people, I am talking about base stations if they are located near the inhabited area. They're talking about dangerous 400 meters around the base stations somewhere. I'm talking about the fact that it's scientifically proven and that you can read all these facts on the Internet. In Croatia we already have several cities of protest over the deployment of base stations and unfortunately we have the fact that Croatia is the only country in the European Union, the only country in the European Union in which they do not need building permits to set up such stations because they are declared simple buildings. It is one of four in which there is no need for a public debate and in which there is no need for permission of local self-government units. The Department of Construction, specifically one case in Dubrovnik. On one building situated in the middle of the settlement, which is less than 200 meters away from the school, 21 base stations are located. At the end of 2011, the ministry issued a solution to remove all these base stations from that location. A solution that could no longer be appealed, therefore it should be removed, but the arrival of this authority failed to implement the solution. I have asked myself whether or not the Minister was Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, and through a parliamentary question on the current clock. She promised to move forward with the collapse of such buildings, or removal sometime at the 11th month, 10-11th month according to her response last year. However, these base stations are still in place today. According to some studies, children are most affected by this type of electromagnetic radiation, especially if more children are using cell phones themselves and unfortunately are growing malignancies according to these studies that can be found on the Internet. I would just remind the public that we are actually in a period that is relatively close to finding and starting to use a cell phone, or technology, and that it is very difficult actually in continuity to get the real results of the actual harmfulness of this radiation. Just to remind all of us together that shortly after the discovery of X-rays in use in the U.S. for depilation, for various everyday things, machines with X-rays were recommended, so for everyday household use, for depilation. So it was a few years after the discovery of X-ray air. Today, we know how dangerous X-rays are and how harmful the organism is. I am afraid that, unfortunately, what certain scientists predict will occur, and this is an increase in malignant diseases, especially the head soon, and some researchers say that there has already been a certain percentage of the increase in malignant head disease in Croatia already now. People call me every day after I asked a question in the Parliament, I was called by the people of Opatija, addressed me via e-mail and through our club, from Zagreb to several locations there have already been protests, etc. You also have a situation that some residents of Zagreb are unaware of the dangers that are at stake renting the roof of their house to tele operators who have no problem, because they do not need the consent of neighbors to place base stations on houses that are maybe five or six meters away from the window of the neighbouring house. And to say that electromagnetic radiation is most reflected in temperature, that is to absorb itself through thermal energy, I don't think it's serious today, and that's what we have on the website of the telegraph operator. I think that HAKOM should really stand in the protection of the health of Croatian citizens along with the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications, together with all institutions that, of course, have anything to do with the setting up of these cells. No one is against advanced technologies, however, not to the harm of citizens' health. Base stations can be placed on quite another, they can be placed somewhere on the hills, so depending on the configuration of the terrain, but certainly not amongst the densely populated areas where people live, where they live for more time, etc. So, simply something that is absolutely unacceptable. And second thing, in Croatia it's allowed as far as I know 40 micros... In Germany that limit is 100, but in Switzerland is 1 micro... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Permission granted, one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 40 times less allowed in Switzerland than in Croatia, 40 times. If the Swiss might be dumber than us, they're more protected by one micro test. So maybe this isn't directly to you. I'm using, I'm sorry, maybe it's not directly related to your area of action. However, there is one part that speaks about the protection of users, so I think it would be good to have that debate. She also promised Minister Mrak-Taritash that she would discuss where these base stations are being set up. Unfortunately, on a daily basis, it is quite certain that it is not happening in practice what we want and we see that it is actually a rush to all these base stations and everywhere in Croatia and we see an ever-increasing release of citizens that is good. I know there's also an Association for Protection against Electromagnetic radiation involving experts. They're also graduate engineers or doctors of science, so scientists. They're not people who don't know what this is about. So if Switzerland was protected in a way that allowed only one micro... and in Croatia it is 40 times the limit, then there is a question in which we are working and why we have allowed these base stations to actually be placed without building permits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simple buildings can be placed on any house, on any roof. We have a fact really here's a look on the Internet. It's just that it's happening here around Zagreb you have at least three locations you have protests of citizens, daily protesting because they don't want to be near their children, near schools, kindergartens etc. And their houses are base stations, which is quite right. I say in Dubrovnik there are 21 base stations that have a solution to the removal since 2011. To this day they are not removed. It simply raises the question of who rules Croatia. Corporates, telephony? Who rules Croatia? Or the Republic of Croatia will respect its solutions brought by its ministries, so the same ministry has made a solution to the removal and unfortunately nothing has happened. Here I am asking you to get involved. This is a topic I think is of great importance for Croatian citizens, for their health and it is an area in which we will need I hope and open up and a wider discussion and in the Croatian Parliament and find the best solutions on the one hand how to use this technology, but on the other hand how to protect the health of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99173	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99174	Dear fellow Matušić, this last sentence you said or the last sentence is likely that you know the answer to who rules Croatia. Who ruled before, who ruled? Well, of course, whoever rules the world, they don't rule the governments. These are naive assumptions that governments rule. I couldn't agree more on what you said about protecting the citizens. HAKOM is also there that all state institutions to protect citizens, however, and that question now that I have asked before, or that you have asked who the government of Croatia means interest is at first, profit. It doesn't matter, there can be a hundred carcinogenic cells somewhere, those citizens will kill, but it doesn't matter, profit is important because whoever gets that profit doesn't live there. And the state says no robbery, take it. It's a fact, a naked fact. I'll just use a little bit of evil to explain what I wanted to say about cowardice. You know it's a privilege to work in agencies, people say, and in state services it's a privilege to work because they're safe, they're safe to pay. In this play that we've got we haven't even left an address to say don't mention my name, and I never mention my name here because now that's how much trust we should have in Parliamentarians, answer that and that phone, it's not. I don't know about Mr. Lucic, etc. here, because I didn't talk about it more widely because it wasn't signed, because so many MPs need to have, and it's not very polite to keep a note here and leave the Parliament and introduce yourself to the worker's protector when you're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99175	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Matusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99176	I guess this part was about colleague Mirela Holy, colleague Vuksic. But I agree with you that in some countries governments do not rule but rule some corporations but not in all, not in all, of course. I don't want it to be Croatia. But these are examples that show the power of teleoperators, these are examples. When you have a solution from the ministry that this same ministry has not been able to implement for four years, about removing 21 base stations. So these are examples. And I'd add as far as health is concerned, there was one study about bees in Europe. You have a British Telegraph, check the British Telegraph, so they've proven scientifically that cell signals and electromagnetic radiation from base cells and cell phones directly affect the bees and kill them. And we have a growing number of bees in the world that puts agriculture at risk, etc., not to say how significant the bee is for the world's economy. Without a bee, we almost wouldn't survive because of fertilization, etc. So you have a clear scientific evidence that it directly affects the reduction of the bee population. Now imagine, the human organism is considered the most perfect although we can learn a lot from both bees and ants, etc. And imagine how much it affects the human organism, it can handle anything, but in one continuity, it's a question of how much it can take. So let us be serious about this problem because it really requires quick answers, professional scientific research that will independently determine the real truth, and I think that the medical profession must also give its opinion on this, in no way allow teleopers to be promoted through their channels and to convince us that it is not harmful and every day we see that it is harmful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99177	Thank you. Finally, please be President of the Council, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for your comments, your suggestions for improvement as well as your questions, especially your praises. I'm sure all of your comments, no matter what direction they were taking, are guidelines for the continued work of HACOM, further excellent and successful work of HACOM as it was in the past, as the Parliament and so far have assessed, and we will also try to meet the expectations of the Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia this year and meet our tasks and objectives including the market... services for which we have been responsible since the summer of last year. To the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament who have asked questions, and they are not here right now, then I will not answer orally but in writing. Mr. Matusic, if you have time I can not now use this time to explain orally what we have done in this area, I agree that this area is very important and that HAKOM is one of the factors that should work together with other institutions of the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent not only the negative effects on health but also the fear of people about the possible negative health consequences. As regards the interference from Italy, I would point out once again that, in my 2013 presentation, I said that a new RS frequency plan is in force, which takes effect on 1 April 2015. The 50m-euro fund is for compensation to publishers in Italy, so that's the solution. We cannot act violently as Italy does to us. Along with other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, I think we've managed to do something after a long number of years. The problem isn't just digital television, the problem is actually '45. The year was but then there were far fewer publishers and these distractions were less pronounced in the coast of our beautiful. If Mr. Assembly MP Vuksic wishes, we can provide him with a far more comprehensive answer to this question, and this is also true for Mr. Matusic. As regards co-operation with local and regional self-government units, this is exactly the way to the future that even in areas that today do not have an adequate level of services through EU funds, we can achieve that gap between the developed and undeveloped part of Croatia is as small as possible and disappears, noting that HAKOM has banned the construction of groundwater in the city area. But normally for rural areas, costs are far higher. That cooperation with... and regional self-government we continue. As far as new technologies are concerned, we are confident that we are among the EU's leading to the introduction of these new technologies. The problem is whether these new technologies are available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, there is the problem. They are not available at this time to all citizens, but unfortunately we who live in Zagreb and highly urbanized environments have the privilege of making these new technologies used simultaneously in Croatia and in the world available only to us who live in large cities in the Republic of Croatia, which is perhaps a quarter or a third of the population at the most. As for the commentary of Mrs and Mr of Assembly, I would say about the work and any other called anonymous performances, I would say that we should check the information on who writes and why not spread lunches and pranks aimed against the legal work of HACOM. Normally, it is your right as legal advocates but I intend not to respond to lunches and pranks as I am not in the past, but I repeat, HAKOM continues to concentrate on the excellence of the work and on the satisfaction of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99179	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99180	Dear colleague Lucic, you said, one sentence sounds good that we will not be violently treated by Italy as Italy is about TV signals, distractions as Italy treats us. This has been going on for years. Will the citizens be compensated? Which is why if you have that attitude, which is why you don't fight it, you don't suggest it, and we have to fight it here in the Parliament because I've talked about it more than once, but she wasn't most interested in it. Why don't we free these people by paying for a TV subscription, for example, why does someone pay for a favor they can't get? It's the same as coming to the bar and ordering a gemist and he says 5 kuna but the gemist won't win. I mean, it's a crazy situation. I guess there's that, too, because we're such a country. So the damages to citizens and citizens want to watch Croatian television, the public television they pay for it is the problem. I ask you in writing then, you don't need to answer some of the questions now, and that's a question of how many square meters, as long as it takes, means you as a responsible person, how much is paid, why is it paid so much that I write it down, if I have to ask the question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99181	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic. I suggest, however, that you refer the parliamentary question in writing formally by procedure and I believe that even more MPs will be interested. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99182	Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for your comment and suggestion. I would just point out that HACOM as a regulatory body, an independent regulatory body has its powers but these powers are not unlimited. These suggestions you've made about damages to our citizens who can't watch the television program certainly have their own foundation, but it's not in HACOM's jurisdiction. But we can forward these questions along with your suggestions to those who are in charge. And as far as these data are concerned, it's been answered several times, so we can deliver all these answers to both the DORHs and all the possible questions, so it's all very obvious. You have in all our financial reports from earlier years, since space, contract signed in 2010, we can also provide you with financial reports from 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 whichever year you want. So there's no problem. But we'd be happy to answer those questions of yours if they were specific. I'd just like to make sure it doesn't come out with some data that hasn't been checked. If it's a question of how much I pay, how much space we can deliver today all that data has no problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99183	Thank you. Frano Matušić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Lucic, I thank you for what you said, and I'm glad that HACOM is taking care of and protecting the health of the users and that you've obviously done some things in this area, but I'd like to ask you in writing to deliver that part to me so that I can continue to communicate. In particular, in Dubrovnik over 2.5 thousand citizens signed a petition to remove these 21 base stations, and they are absolutely interested in what is happening in general, and of course not only in the matter of removal, because I believe it is not your job but it is exclusively the Ministry of Construction that must respect its own solution, so its institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99185	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99186	Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we'll send you a written message on Monday, just tell me which address, e-mail, and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99187	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank Mr. Lucic with his associate and your colleagues as well. We'll be done with work for the day. On Wednesday, we continue the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Centres, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014-2016. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted 13.30 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-06-0.u99188	Annual report on the work of the Croatian agency for mail and electronic communications... /Buka in hall./... If they listened a little more, they'd know how to vote. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2013 is accepted. a year." Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that the report has been accepted by 80 votes and 1 vote against.
