ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119660	I thank you, Mr. President. What I must say first is thanks for all those who have tried in different ways to solve the problem of all those who have committed themselves by raising loans with a currency clause in Swiss francs, in particular by pointing out the Franak Association whose actions and activities have been crucial and for proposing this law. I also thank the signatories who supported the adoption of this law, i.e. 18 of our colleagues and colleagues and 7 of our various clubs testifying that there is a common desire to solve this problem. I would also like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who, following the submission of this proposal, has speeded up the process of proposing and adopting the bill that we adopted last week and which is in some way complementary to this proposal that we now have. Since that law has been passed then I must say that our law is complementary to what has been adopted. In doing so, I would like to highlight this important fact that the uniqueness and unanimity itself when adopting the draft law proposed by the Government, we are taking on our own commitment to meet, regardless of the results of the elections and the composition of the future government, our commitment to meet the objectives of this law. But then we must resolve the question of resolving the relationship between the two laws. Our law that was passed at that stage in which the government's proposal has not yet been based on the fact that consumers in this case are all debtors of the Swiss franc loan holders that they have received their own satisfaction and the right to launch judicial proceedings and ultimately the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. But it's about Piro's victory, they've won the right but at the same time they're directed to that individual lawsuits have to exercise that right. This means that the Croatian judiciary should now be resolved and processed by some 70s and slightly more thousands of new cases. We believe that such a procedure is irrational, we believe that this would lead to the stifling of the Croatian judiciary, but also the process of exercising its right to individual lawsuits represents a certain even difficult cost for the very category of people in the social difficult situation. It's about people who are burdened with credit financial obligations that would have to... the costs of court proceedings that we're releasing with this proposal. We also want to increase the speed of making these decisions, so in this proposal, we propose that the whole procedure is based on a consensus agreement, in fact, to recognise a kind of calculation that banks would make at their expense and which would be an executive document which would in principle not be disputed if the parties could reach agreement on this. It is also about the need to avoid any unresolved questions about the limitation of these claims. We are aware of the fact that banks are stronger in that conflict that they have more resources and more influence options than individual prosecutors. That is why we believe that such measures as we are proposing to help the weaker party in these procedures. Also, preventing antiquity and proposing lower interest are things which, in a social sense, solve difficulties that would fall on the burden of consumers. We are aware that this is an exception to the system of collective lawsuits but we cannot be blind to the produced social effects that occurred with the rapid rise in the value of the Swiss franc and in the other behaviour of banks and governments in this regard. What we want to achieve is that banks become not stronger than equal participants in the settlement agreement. We voted here uniquely in the example of that solution that the government has proposed. However, only most of the proposal overlaps with what we are dealing with in this law. So we want to stay with the draft of this law to help those categories that will not have a foothold in the government's legal solution. We've voted here to protect the weak and this is the kind of vote that obliges. I'll look back here on another possible objection. We are aware of the fact that the European Union is seeking to harmonize consumer protection and that the protection of consumers found by individual elements or individual countries has not contributed to the harmonisation of that right in the European Union. Therefore, it was not sufficient to regulate only the minimum level of protection but rather those directives which the European Commission has adopted are regulated and the highest level of protection. However, we believe that such a deviation can be taken as a risk to this greater risk in this regard, it is a law that we have already passed. I want to point out here, however, that the protection of the weaker binds us and that we do not fall under the pressure that exists in the media that says that banks are strong in their instruments of pressure on governments and judicial institutions. I don't want anyone to be intimidated by it, and I want our unity to show that we're on the weak side. In this we cannot do anything but stay with the bill and I invite you to a unique support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119661	Thank you too, dear colleague, on behalf of the motionary. Do the presidents of the working bodies committee of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're going to have a joint discussion of the club's representatives. It is up to the Club of Representatives of ORAH in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Comrade Novak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119662	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Since we have two laws in front of us relating to a very different subject, then we're going to each other. The esteemed deputy stated in an explanation that the adoption of this law is extremely important because in relations between the parties, the consumer is always the weaker one and who is exposed to let's say the pressure and needs some additional protection. And it now states, among other things, that a certain database will be created, a data register in which consumers will declare that they do not want to get a certain advertising, or via teleoperators, to be able to enter into certain contracts. But that means that the consumer is back in a more unfavourable position. In disfavor for the reason he has to deliver, give some of his information to the public. Why would that be possible? Why force someone to do that? Isn't it logical that it's just the other way around? That there is some kind of database of those who are ready, willing in such a way to make contracts or come into a position in general to make a contract. There are a few other provisions here that we think are rather discriminatory at the ORAH club. What is the appropriate time limit for repairing a device, that is, the goods we bought? I don't know if I missed it or if I missed those who worked with us on this, but an appropriate deadline is really something that's pretty undefined. We have a situation where, especially when some goods, some service is more expensive or valuable, in which case most of us will take some credit to be in a position to pay for it at all. In that case, you'll pay even 12% or the usual 12%, let's say. However, what is the obligation of the seller in that case? In case you're not satisfied with the service, with the quality of the goods, there's a drop in the contract. I think it would be correct then if we already wanted to, and declaredly we want to bring into the same position or protect the consumer, that and on this point let's say we prescribe a manufacturer or a provider of some service identical to that obligation. I think that would be appropriate for us. Then what became common is the difference in some guaranteed deadlines, so you have the original packaging that makes you some product that's produced in the European Union countries, it's there to say a guarantee on some goods, on some device for 3 or 5 years. However, the authorised distributor for the Republic of Croatia has made you conditional on his or her declaration and has been guaranteed for two years. This is what has already been said a lot this year, even the difference in the quality of products, the same under quotes, in some countries of the European Union which are countries of origin where this particular product is produced and conditioned by these new members of the European Union where the quality of these products is ever worse and worse. And it's always the familiar question of the log bag. Which is why, okay, I remember this debate, but why and why the consumer would have to pay for advertising a company. He buys some product, he wants a bag next to it or he's offered it, but there's a logo on that bag. I think it would be more fair and correct if the bags on which the manufacturer’s logo or seller is highlighted were free of charge. In any case, we have a few more objections and we will propose amendments to that part of the law that was proposed here, but I would like to draw your attention to another situation. On page 4 of this text, which the Government has proposed to us, it writes to you, in fact, the real reason why this law has changed, so you have reasons for passing laws by emergency procedure. Namely, the proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act is referred to in an emergency procedure, given that a pre-trial procedure has been initiated against the Republic of Croatia. This was in line with the European Union directives from 2014. We don't need to re-emphasise every law that has this P.Z.E. supplement. or Appendix E goes into an emergency procedure and implies, it is always in line with the European Union directives, with the regulations of the European Union. So how if a year ago we debated and harmonised it, we were only in line with the directives and regulations of the European Union, how we came in a position to implement or initiate court proceedings against the Republic of Croatia because of the non-compliance of the law. I think that's enough talking about it, and it's ours that the opposition always warns about, and what the rulings are always deafening and always have reasons why something is not or do not want to accept. Now I'm going to do a little bit about this bill of law by the respected Professor Kregar, which essentially refers to the one, the colloquisally spoken Swiss, the Swiss problem, and which is another attempt to correct the injustice of one group of Croatian citizens. In addition to all the reasons that Professor Kregar cited, some of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have given up on court disputes, starting with the fact that it is serious costs, and it is mainly about endangered citizens who have questioned their existence precisely because of these fake products of our financial industry. On the other hand, we have some uncertainty as to what we can expect on this matter. On the third hand, we also have the situation that the only thing relevant is the calculation of the difference that only banks give again and only theirs is relevant, and what a citizen has to pay the bank for, which is a little bit odd. In the end, this closing sentence is not until the end legally defined even as the ruling in the collective dispute affects the statute of limitations. I think it's just as important. And now as much as we can say that last week, I'm not going to say I'm not going to say right in any way, but we've eased the injustice of one group of Croatian citizens, I think now we have a very good chance of covering another group, or another part of that same group. It is that the adoption of this bill would include those citizens who have already paid off the loan, and I think that we are also there with an attempt to intervene in the draft law in last week's debate we had the opportunity to propose an opposition. I think, unfortunately, we missed that opportunity, we didn't take advantage of it, and I hope this time there will be a little more hearing so that the whole story will be included and the citizens who have already paid off those loans. And if we're to be honest, if it's a fraud, and remember last week during that debate, it's very often that very term of fraud has been used. If it is a fraud, then the fraud applies to those who have paid off the loan and to those who still pay it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119663	Thank you too, colleague. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119664	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, at first you turned your attention to a very important thing. Namely, this is called the Consumer Protection Act. And imagine the first article of this law does not protect consumers, but damages them even more. How many inverse provisions that are forbidden to send calls or messages via telephone to consumers who have entered the consumer register. Whoever wants to be harassed, let him have a duty, not a duty, to one who doesn't want to be harassed. Always the other way around. The obligation is attributed to those who do not want to be disturbed. So it makes sense that someone has the right to disturb you, that's logical. He has a right to disturb you, and if you don't want to be disturbed, you have to go, sign in, give up, spend time, spend money and sign up there that you don't want to. Is it not more logical that he who desires to be disturbed should be enlisted in the voters? Let him go, there's a register for those who are allowed, because it doesn't make sense that someone else can be disturbed. So whoever wants to be harassed should be on the list and the problem will be solved, not even more imposed on those who do not want to be written always inverse solutions. So how long will the illogical rule be Croatian. Create a register of those who wish to receive both mail and e-mail and phone distresses, not a register of those who do not want to. For God's sake, I can't do it. Please stop protecting us like that. At the same time if it is to be protected, let it be protected once it comes from someone's distributor it will come yesterday, but it will be at least 8 days or not selling goods to which it has expired, but that it must be withdrawn from the shelves. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119665	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119666	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague and I agree from first to last, but I believe you've also looked at this consultation with the interested public. So the grotesque of this consultation refers to teleoperators and teleopers today behave as they did a few years ago, but all the while they do it, as the financial sector, and this is paid by citizens, it has only been damaged, so far they have had citizens but also the Republic of Croatia. And there's no way simply whether there's no way or if there's no will or if there's something that's some kind of interest that we don't know or see. But interestingly, telephony operators are in this state of sacred cow. The same story as last week's financial sector and how you said harmful, corrupt, corrupt products or some expression you used. Mostly the wrong stuff, thanks a nice fellow, the wrong stuff. I must admit that the goods with error are mostly from teleoperators, or contracts that citizens sign with them. And I have not noticed the good will of the Republic of Croatia or the Government or the Ministry to protect those citizens. There must always be a problem over your head, water over your head to begin with. And unfortunately, I believe that there will be an election cycle that will begin to solve these problems seriously as it has been with the Swiss to come into pre-election time to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119667	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119668	I would like to thank Mr. President, thank my colleague Novak for his good and wonderful addition. Just to make something right so it doesn't stay unclear. The draft law provides that all costs in the case of a bank dispute, because we just want to facilitate the consumer's position that in such disputes it does not have to take over or pay the costs of the process. That's what I want to point out. And one more thing about the inconsistencies. I was referring here to the Supreme Court's decision which was not precise in terms of interest and old age that we are correcting by the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119669	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119670	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Craig's, it's okay you're further explaining. I have read clearly the part of the proposal, i.e. the assessment of the situation and the basic issues being regulated by law. I was talking about the current situation, and the fact is that by adopting this bill would be at least one part of it, or there would be another part of it that was discussed last week in that debate, there is a possibility in that law, we have a table of opportunity to further correct some of the injustices. Are we gonna make it? Will your idea come upon fertile soil? I don't know. But here are your colleagues, listening to you, listening to this debate. I hope they find it appropriate to help the citizens, so if it's anything else because it's pre-election time. Even those who paid off the loans are voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119671	Thank you very much, colleague. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119672	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, respected MPs and consumer representatives are certainly one of the very important and important issues in the EU, and in recent years it has become a more important issue in both Croatian society and in some way they have begun to tighten the criteria for the protection of those who do not pay any good or service and are actually given what Americans would say for money, because very often it happens that the Croatian consumer, who is actually relatively weak in pay, does not get value for money regardless of whether it is a product or a service and it is unsatisfactory and does not come across real mechanisms that would be the right opportunity to get the right satisfaction for that. Here are two legislative proposals, one proposal to amend and supplement the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the other Cregar MPs who certainly refer to different things. As for the proposal of the Craigschild, the HDSSB Club supports this proposal, and we are sorry, in fact, that there was no opportunity and they did not even ask us to sign the amendment proposal, but it is an attempt to help users of certain let's say banking products as they like to say in that part of collective and individual rights. And we think it's a good step for Croatian consumers in one good direction. It would be good if, in fact, it were accepted with those amendments to the Consumer Credit Act and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, in fact, would further strengthen and improve the position of people who are users or were users of credit. When it comes to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend and supplement the Consumer Credit Act there are several amendments and additions. One, in Article 2, refers to the possibility to amend, respectively, Article 11a which introduces a consumer register that does not want to receive calls and messages in the context of a promotion or sale by telephone. I would agree, of course, in the public debate and now that it is said that it would be the happiest if there were only a register of those who wanted to accept it, but I would also agree with that, in fact, it is not real and it is impossible to implement it in practice. It would be just as if, since we're all getting into our mailboxes of all kinds of promotional flyers and ads, if we were to define that these ads only include those who stick to the mailbox I want an ad. So it's here, right, that someone's volunteering, and I want someone to call me. So, of course those people wouldn't be here anymore. Under market conditions such as the establishment of this register will be one positive step in consumer protection. That's the opinion of the HDSSB club. Nothing is ideal, but here those who explicitly won't want to be able to fence themselves from it. We saw in the public debate that all telecom operators were particularly complaining I would say about the amendments to this article because they are the ones who are most often buzzing and calling different consumers and trying to actually promote their products and services. And if this is implemented in a good way, it will certainly be one step in protecting consumers. Second, when it comes to Article 3 which determines that for product repair and maintenance services, if the value of the service is greater than 500 kuna, the trader is obliged to place an offer on a permanent medium with a description of the works and the needs of materials and parts for repair. I would warn the promoter if he did not notice that, in the public debate, the Croatian Chamber of crafts has made an objection to this article of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law, with the reason that this will significantly increase the scope of the work that is not theirs, which is to write different offers. None of those in the service business, especially when it comes to small craftsmen, are happy when we, as a state, further impose such an administrative measure. They proposed that this amount be at least, so they must deliver a reasoned offer of costs and so on, at least at 750 kuna, which is a 100-euro level. I would suggest on behalf of our club, and we will send the amendment, that this HOK proposal once again be considered by the Government as our amendment, and if it is possible to accept it because you will simply make these small craftsmen of which most of them are barely surviving anyway, you will impose on them a huge additional job to write different offers indeed for services of very, very small amounts. And this of 750 kuna is not much, but it is still some higher limit that will remove the need for all small repairs, so 501, 502 or 550 kuna have to write a reasoned offer. I mean, for one machine repairman or a water heater repairman, it means he has to hire another administrator to write to him a day of 10 or 20 offers to fix the water heaters. So he would suggest to you, and we will refer the amendment in fact with the support of this Croatian Chamber of crafts that this amount for offers is at least 750 kuna and not 500 kuna, as is now in these amendments and additions to the bill. Also when it comes to Article 10 and it comes to the conclusion of a distance service contract by telephone, Croatian consumers have been exposed to a whole series of frauds, we can freely call them fraud where they were actually thought to have taken over a service or goods only through a telephone conversation and it is good to change Article 66a that it also requires written consent for an accepted offer that was on the phone. What is certainly not good is that paragraph 3 states that the provisions of this article, therefore the need for a telephone to be attached does not apply to teleoperatives. Why isn't that good, because teleopers but they keep changing tariffs. Teleopers constantly change tariffs and constantly call users and users to change tariff models and tariffs just through telephone conversations. So he tells him, he says that he can, this change and the user can no longer return that tariff he applied to him, of course this one told him, gave him the positive side, the phone conversation is recorded, the consumer is brought here into a very unfavourable position. It would be very good if when it comes to accepting services remotely, everyone puts them in an equal position including teleoperators, so let the teleopers also choose when they have already entered the customer I would say another tariff, some other model and similar send and a written offer so that the user and the urinal can read again in peace, actually accept or not accept that offer that was placed on his phone and later very quickly realizes that when the conversation is over and then it is too late, he has already accepted and the story is over. Therefore, we will also make an amendment to Article 66a to simply delete paragraph 3 and to delete the obligation to make written offers in the conclusion of distance service contracts by telephone to all, to all those who offer such services by telephone and not to exclude teleoperatives who are actually operators of such activities. On, I would say not to the great pride of the promoter, it can be that Zagrebačka banka should be given to them in a public debate of the remarks on the nomotechnical complexity of the legislative proposal, which the proposer then accepts all three. Otherwise, Croatian consumers, and we all know this systematically, are actually exposed to all possible forms of success, as much of course, by those who are trying to sell a product in some way, to suggest it, to pack it, to make it more attractive for them, to fool them a little bit and so on. We all see what happens that coffee that has always been half a kilo, that big pack now sells 375 grams, or more than 425 grams, is the same package is just a small amount smaller with the goal of actually achieving a higher unit price of the product. It happens with yogurts that are reduced, it happens with chocolates that with 100 grams are down to 95, 90, 85, 80, 80, 75 grams in order to actually deceive the consumer who won't look at the unit value of the product or see if it's really a chocolate bar that's a little smaller than the 100 grams he expects. Olivec also reduced the packaging, some producers reduced from 250 to 200 grams. The bread is also reduced, so I don't know which one of us can go to the store anymore and buy a kilo of bread. I mean, it's a long forgotten category practically. And if I wasn't to say that even that unit value that traders would have to point out, means by a kilo or by that larger measured unit very often, or it was written so small or the other day I was in Sparta, there's no need not to say, so in this Sparta, they're everywhere where they should be, they're underwritten as an accident, but they're undertook over all the shelves so they can't be seen at all. On the other hand, what is very often happening to consumers is that action prices are rapidly changed at mall shelves, remains at a lower price policy but in the meantime the price has changed and the consumer sees a lower price on the shelf, takes the product, comes to a milder but the cashier price is higher because they used it at the registers and are not on the shelf. There is no way for the consumer to get the product at the lower price at which the product was found on the shopping center shelf because it is impossible, that cashier cannot do it, it has already changed the product in the register. So it happens I can say pretty often. For example, on the shelves of Kaufland or Plodin. As another example of whether it is often, sometimes negligent, whether it is sometimes more than negligence, but I think that there should actually be certain inspection services to pay attention to the protection of consumers. One thing that should also be addressed when it comes to consumer protection, it is certainly a question of the origin of the product. Not one but an x example regardless of the type of article I met that the origin of the product on the original packaging is different from that of the product originating on the importer's declaration. So how is that possible? How can our importers declare a different product than that declaration on the packaging? Very often these importers declare the country of origin as the headquarters of the company that manufactures the product. So we often have hundreds of products different not only domestic but also different tools of wide-use products on which it says on Made in USA declaration, and because, of course, the USA producer is on the original packaging it's nice to say that it's Made in China, Thailand, Taiwan I don't know similar or Made in Germany on the importer's declaration, and made and again by some other state as. I don't remember the example at least I didn't find them in public space that one of those importers was punished for falsely declaring the country of origin where the product came from. I think you should pay attention to that, too. In any case, the HDSSBN Club will support these two legislative proposals with these two amendments to amend and supplement the Law by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119673	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119674	I thank you, Mr. President. I also thank you for your support, and you didn't come by chance to sign the proposal, and I'm sorry, because it would have been more impressive if you and your club had signed it, that's what you'll show in the vote. I'm reporting because there's one principle thing here. We have a very valuable and very undertaking Privacy Protection Agency which, in the case of the mentioned article on whom the burden of enrolment falls in the register, should say the same. I'm in favour of that attitude that I've heard here that this is really about the disturbances that are mainly made by large monopolies and powerful telecommunications companies that are not cost-effective. What I'm reporting for, however, is the fact that it's a violation of the right to privacy because English it's also created as a right not to bother me... /The speaker speaks English./... leave me alone. That was how the Supreme Court of the United States and started protecting privacy and we could take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119675	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119676	Thank you. I agree with you and that we could take a step in that direction. On the other hand, I think we should look for at least such a balance between the desire to protect privacy and the real fact that if we lack anything in this country, we also lack jobs, even in places and marketing, even in companies that print and posters and jobs among those who deliver these flyers and jobs in the industry that process this material at the end. I mean, maybe for one small country like the Republic of Croatia, one of those exactly incarceration to any form of advertising in this respect might be a little excessive, but on the other hand, I wouldn't mind finally and when we really closed it down, so just who likes to go ahead, so one and the other. But I think that some of us are always a balance as a society that tries to improve and boost competitiveness and create jobs in all possible aspects we must look for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119677	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Goran Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119678	Thank you very much. You spoke of the importance of consumer protection, so one of the criteria on which the level of social development is measured is and to what extent consumer protection has been achieved. However, there is no country in Europe where the consumer is more unprotected in terms of the quality of goods and the price of goods, the period of duration and consumer relations such as in Croatia. In Croatia, the consumer is so protected by regulations, busy, and in fact not protected. So the consumer needs to lose half a day to buy a product at some wholesale mall because there's no one who knows about installations there which is half a car, and which is three-quarters of a car, there's no one to talk to. He has to go around all the shelves to find something to buy. But when it comes to concrete improvements now, this is a deterioration of consumer status. Unnecessary communications via phone and/or messages, means by phone and/or message. What messages? This is where e-mails, e-mails are assumed. No, I don't. Here only says further Article 11a. It is forbidden to send calls and messages via phone to consumers. Then why would a different head go up? And secondly, if someone wants to protect themselves, then this regulation should stand, it is forbidden to make calls in general except for those who want to, and those who want to be entered in the register because it is normal that it is prohibited. I received 7 e-mails from the same address on Saturday, same content, tape curtains, and we're selling tape curtains. How do you get rid of these attacks? Seven times in one day. This law doesn't predict it, but even if I have to say I don't have to go registering. It's logical that it's completely forbidden, and anyone who doesn't want to be banned should register and then accept such a bill, not that those who don't allow themselves to be harassed should be harassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119679	Replicate reply, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119680	Thank you. If I agree with you, I think, as I would say, that this is no matter what you say it is, that this is still a step forward, I don't think I agree with that because we haven't had anything yet. So if we didn't have anything, we have something, I don't know why it would be a step back, but well so far, the consumer who didn't want to is not in any way, so he had general mechanisms to defend himself. Because at least now there's some, some, some kind of, not ideal, but there is. What I don't really like anymore is this exception of teleoperate from the obligation to agree to a contract by written means. They still have the ability to make and modify contracts just like this telephone, or these tariff models, and so on by calling users, I think that this is a much greater danger to users than this in the financial part. I also receive offers of different Croatian, which foreign providers on their mail, advertising because they all stick and download your web address whether we want it or not. It's very difficult to have programs that actually protect you from such a form of hacking. It's actually hacking all those who look at their website. That's something I think everyone has a problem with. And when it comes to these e-mails, we could have built up the obligation that you can ban them because many foreign advertisers have at least a page on which you can ban them from sending you further messages and these Croatians don't have that either. So you can't even get word to him that they're not texting you anymore, but he's just like you said, just picking up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119681	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar are next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119682	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate so far, something has already been referred to as a serious remark in the principle of proposing this law and trying to find the best solutions. I would have gone back a little bit, not so long ago just last year. At that time, the Government proposed a Consumer Protection Act. Interesting and then due to the particular needs of urgent procedure. Explaining this law and the urgency of the procedure, it was then said that our legislation must be brought into line with European Union legislation, and in particular with certain directives that address these issues which are addressed by the Consumer Protection Act. A year later, the government proposes amendments and additions to the law, re-proposing an emergency procedure and has an interesting explanation for urgency. In his request for urgency, the government said this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act is referred to in an emergency procedure, given that a pre-trial case has been brought against the Republic of Croatia for alleged infringement of EU law. And now it explains the injuries that the European Union directive has led someone to initiate a pre-trial action against the Republic of Croatia. That is why it is said in an explanation that we must comply with certain directives. The directive states that I do not bother you all 97/7, 98/27, 2002/65, 2006/2004, 1999/44, 85/577 etc., etc. So in order to comply with the directives stated here by the Government in an emergency procedure, we are going into an emergency procedure to pass this law. Interestingly last year, when we passed the law, we were in line, if you don't believe in the word, I will read from the law with those same Directives 93/13, 2005/29, 97/7, 98/27, etc., etc. It is then said that the law is adopted by an urgent procedure in order to comply with the European Union directives and to resolve this issue. Today a year later, we reconciling ourselves with those same directives, some of which are from '93. The year, '98. In 2002, which means that their text was known to the proposing last year when she offered an emergency procedure law. That is, it actually guides or stimulates us to ask the next question. Who in the Government then or now did not know the text of those directives, who in the Government then or now took a simple formula so that we would not argue too long, that the floor, so to speak to the reasons for the emergency procedure, would sell compliance with European Union law? If we were to comply with the law of the European Union last year with these same directives that we are now reconciling with, then someone had made a mistake, or we did not agree or today because we had agreed, so he took the reason without justification. In addition to this, and this seems to have become a practice of calling for compliance with European Union law, we can particularly talk about how we plan to regulate consumer protection. This has already been the case, so the new Article 2 where article 11 is added comes up one phenomenal variant whenever you want, a colleague Maric spoke about it, that you are not invited by phone to use certain services or purchase products, then you must say that you do not want to be the subject of these offers. About what you do not want with the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, there will be a register of those who do not want to do so, and then any trader who offers these services will have to go to that register to know whether he may or may not offer his services or his products. It's like this one of the most brilliant moves we've ever had a chance to see. However, the minister in charge of consumer protection will bring a regulation to which he will handle it, and I believe that this rule will solve everything. There is a question from everyday life, if we do not want to say that we are offered certain types of products offered by 100 or 150 different companies, how will the register of those who do not want to offer such products to a specific consumer be made up because they do not want to offer it. That is a question I think the minister in charge of consumer protection will not be able to answer. This, of course, brings us to our practical examples. We were talking about teleoperators, we weren't talking about the fact that a whole series of neighborhoods in Croatia are rebelling against the installation of antennas that serve teleoperators to offer you their services and which, in the opinion of some, radiates illicit amounts of harmful radiation. This, of course, does not belong to consumer protection. We've been very independent of everyone here, so we've allowed them to radiate as much as they can. On the other hand, these same teleopers, here's a specific example, they don't offer you their products, but they include you as their consumer and you have to fight them so you don't want to receive their services. On that trail, which I personally experienced with HT, is the birth of such a register. You are included in Croatian Telecom as a user of some of your services, and then you have to make an effort to explain to them that you do not want this service otherwise your invoiced payments arrive in order to pay for the service you have neither asked nor wanted. It's this reverse principle that we're now going to establish this kind of nebulous register. What we think is extremely important in the protection of consumers, and not the subject of this law, is the fact that every day you are bombarded with the services of the trade chains where prices of 14.99, 17.98, 15.99 stand out. It is allowed to advertise, it is allowed to highlight offers and these are allowed services. Our legislator doesn't think there's anything controversial about it. When you take, on the other hand, the fact that you are missing 1 lip from the full price most often, not most often, does not always return to those malls, try to calculate over a year how much in this way these declared prices of the really charged difference that ended on the wrong side, not for those of you who got 1 lip cheaper than for traders who did not charge you the price offered, regardless of the declared price, but who charged you the price higher than offered. There is no talk in our Consumer Protection Act, that you are bombed every day without a speech unless, in future, you will find yourself in the register of those who do not want to receive certain services and I really do believe in such a healthy sense that it does not make any sense to anyone. It would probably be simpler, technically more feasible and much fairer if you wanted to make up registers if there had to be, although I think it would be very difficult, for those who would like to be offered the right way. But regardless, about this one small segment in a whole series of consumer protection provisions that we should talk about, we have accepted some sort of dare to say little things about the essence of consumer protection, and the basis is that we have the opportunity to even discuss the intervention in the law in an adequate way, which means with the constant time that the proposing would leave us with the provisions of the law and the aim, not to talk about the intentions, we can get to know. In this way to claim that we are again in line with the EU directives that we have already aligned with, we are left with the question when you lied, last year when you passed the law or today when we move towards its amendments and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119683	Thank you too, dear colleague. You have four replicas on your exhibit. My colleague, Gyurjica Sumrak, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, it's true when you're talking about this, that we're already here, but over four years, we're passing more than half the law, we're coordinating, and then after that, we're re-adjusting them and changing them again. What's going on now? Slamper this government, try to coordinate this government, or it's all expensive just to get someone through something that's convenient without going into the essence. Indeed, this law should pay much more attention to the consumer's protection on the market, as already said with the quality of the product, is not equal to the quality of products in some EU countries such as Germany, Austria and the quality of the products we buy in Croatia, not at all. It's about detergents, it's about other foods as well, if that should be solved, that should really work out. What we should also as consumers take care to ensure that the health value of this food, and it is related to the labelling of the duration and separation of that food into special policies, should be what this law adopts. And yes, there's a big problem, and people are very rebelling about setting up a teleporter antenna because it's radiating and it's already proven, but in Trešnjevci they wake up, and in the morning they see the antenna. What kind of protection is that? She's gone, and this law says that if we don't want to be harassed, we have to go and say, "Listen, don't harass us." And again, like you said in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119685	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119686	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of the Sumrak, what you have replicated, and what is the essence of our objections is what the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Academyman Reiner said the other day. There is even a warning from the Constitutional Court that this way of passing the law deeply touches not only on parliamentaryism but on the democratic possibility of saying and discussing possible solutions essential to society as a whole. And today in the last week, as everyone says in this House's mandate, we are going to change a law of triviality because of some pretrial procedure. We do not change the essence of the Consumer Protection Act, which is why I have cited some of the examples, and there are many more than declarations, working hours and I do not know what not, we are talking today about establishing a register of people who do not want to receive certain services. It's a really ingenious thing, I don't know if there's an example in the world that that's how you regulate questions. But what is once again a problem is the fact that I have pointed out, the same EU directives which were the basis for last year's adoption of the emergency law and which we have transposed into our own legislation are again the basis for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure. Now I would expect the responsible Parliament to check it out and say some of it is wrong. So if anything else, give us at least a chance to bring down laws that concern all of us calmly and analytically in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119687	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119688	A colleague, if Article 2 is prescribed that calls are prohibited, then is it not illogical to prescribe that those who wish to be directed by the law must register. It's just as logical as being in the register of voters you'll talk about later, everyone has to sign up except for those who have the right to vote. That's how logical it is. And you're saying that the minister will prescribe the rulebook, and I'm only afraid that the regulation will prescribe even a membership obligation for those who enter the register. The same article shall not apply to contracts concluded under specific rules governing electronic communications, which shall also be privileged and discriminated at the same time. What most and why this law should be passed is just like that. So where does that logic live? In Croatia, it is not, in this House, the least. Imagine every day they call and assure you that you have a favourable tariff from the one I gave yesterday, and until yesterday they claimed it was the most favourable and when they finally convince you or say please send it to me by email, they do not want it, it is not allowed to be sent by email. And then we offer you 30 days of gratis, so the people of ignorance say, well, if you give it away for free, then realize after six months that it's being calculated and 5 months already, because it's due to cancel out the one you've been given gratis. Well, the whole state has submitted itself to teleopers, so really as far as we're gonna go and how long it's gonna take. So who's more important, people or teleopers? It's visible from this teleoperator law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119689	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119690	Well, unfortunately, my colleague Maric, you've now responded, but you've denied me the joy of saying teleoperate. That's why I listed a specific case. I got a favor I didn't ask for. I wasn't informed about it, I didn't even know I could use it, but after the first month of being able to use it, I started paying for the service. And after that, I had to prove to someone that I didn't ask for it, and I didn't want that favor. And it lasted another three, four months while I finally did it also probably some register fell out of that register that I got rid of a service I never wanted. Your question is clear then. The antennae can be done wherever it wants, as it will without the opinion of the residents to whom their activity applies, just so that someone can provide us with a service on the principle of this Article 11. Those who do not want services will stand in a special register, otherwise the provision of such services is prohibited. You asked for logic in this proposal to amend and supplement the law. If it were the only one who wasn't logical at the end of this term, I'd be overjoyed. This is just one in a row. Reminds me again of paying VAT according to the number of words in newspaper articles. It's basically a regulation of the same force. And I regret the time we spend and the effort we want to show that this is all pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119691	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119692	Well, you mentioned a lot of things that this law does not solve, or it does not solve in a good and good way. I was talking about it on behalf of the ORAH club, though. But you mentioned the same thing as me and that famous publication, that register. I am now in a dilemma whether we are in violation of this other law, the Data Protection Act, because that register must be reported by all those who do not wish to be thrown out of this terror because that is what I think is the most appropriate expression. And they have to deliver all their data to which honestly I still don't know what it's all about. And it's going to be some kind of registry that's going to be available to who and why? If it's me to admit it's not my narrow area, so I'm not really alone in the clear, but somehow it's ringing to get into that area. And another thing you mentioned about telegraphers. Getting favors you didn't sign and didn't want, putting antennas everywhere and everywhere. But you have another one I'll call it a pearl. You must make a contract to get your number, to get a possible device if it is intended by this contract and you must also present your identity card from which you can see where you live. So you can live in Croatia Kostanica, you can live in the Court where there is no network of this operator, not available at all. And you're forced to rooming because it's an operator that covers that area from another country. And there's nothing you can do about it. If you want to have our operator's number that you're available here, you have to sign the contract. And he's signing a contract with you and he knows he won't give you any favors. And that's also unfortunately for us all know about it and nobody knows anything, so we also have that other problem that we sometimes have something good and prescribed but there's no control over it. Thank you. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119693	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119694	Comrade Novak, after what you said on behalf of the club, here we are in these replicas. Obviously, you wanted to show that we needed a logical, necessary, or necessary law from this point on, and there would be many more examples. I can think of one another. This is all written mostly for teleopers, because they're at the source of information based on phone numbers. And imagine now 70 companies dealing with the sale of ceramic tiles and everyone calling you on the phone and offering you their products, and then you're reporting in the register that you don't want to buy ceramic tiles on the phone. And you get into the Unwanted Register, but what kind of someone who offers these services is going to check if you're the person who doesn't want that service. It's not clear to me in this phenomenal rule that will determine how this register will work. So again, a story has been created about the Consumer Protection Act that had no intention at all, but someone who deals with the provision of telecommunications services has found a way to enter our legislation under a company of harmonisation with the European Union, the law of the European Union with which we are reminded I will bring the proposal to the same team of law in line with last year's law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119695	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we look at how many average Croatian families pay for telecommunications services per month and how much they pay for the services of certain communals, then the question arises whether we have protected or not protected Croatian citizens and certainly did not protect them because they are sold everything and everything in ignorance. You get 7.8 calls within 3 days, you get high bills, we offer you that, that, and that and that for a reduction of 30, 40%, and then when you agree to it after 3.4 months, you basically see what happens to you. However, especially are not protected Croatian citizens who have weekends at sea. They have to sign the contract for six months in order to have an Internet line and Max TV has to sign it for six months, and then for the next six months, they can't make it anymore. And so for six months, without saying that all the utility services throughout the year are paying for a flat break because if you're not wasting water, if you're not wasting your garbage, why would you pay for a cobweb? However, no one cares about the protection of these consumers. So when you add it all together, then you'll see how much money it is. And these are the basic things, and these are all the little things that every day Croatian citizens encounter, and the highest thing that we've taken from outside is 14 or 15.99, one piece of soap doesn't bring back to you alive. So, you can't just rewrite a directive and you practically don't run it. We have abolished 300 million kunas per year of telepathy excise duty, they will reportedly invest in Croatia. They have not invested anything, and in the past 4 years they have taken from the Croatian budget a billion and 200 million in orderly. With that billion and 200 million, we could solve a program of these citizens who can't pay for electricity costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119697	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119698	Now there's going to be a criticism that I got a replica from my own club, be careful that's terrible but that's why it's wise to bring such regulations. You have now opened a topic that should be inspiring to those who should have thought long ago about consumer protection by saying what all local self-government does especially to those who do not have a place of residence but occasionally stay and pay for their expenses all year round. But that didn't impress the proposing so much that she thought it should be regulated by law. A much more important issue is the provision of telephone services. It was a motive for the government to re-go over the last days of its mandate to amend this law. Neither does she care, we spoke, installations for how Croatian service providers are said, nor are they concerned about human health, nor are they concerned about the fair calculation of the really spent utility services from water, electricity and so on, she is concerned only by the telephone intelligence of people. And here we are in a position where we have to get into the register when we don't want anything. By that logic, imagine how the registers in our country will be when we register for everything we don't want. And if this is a principle, if this is logic, I'm afraid to think about where it's going.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119699	My colleague, Mlakar, has not even had any previous criticism in the effects, effects, and for the truth, you had three replicas from your own club, not one. Nothing, I'm just saying what it is. It's all right, I didn't cause it. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the HNS Club and Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119700	As regards the HNS Club and this united debate, I would like to say at first that we will welcome and support the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act with a final draft of the law, under regular number 891. And as for his co-worker Kregar's proposal, as he said, his proposal was consumed practically by the vote of another law last Friday. So it's perfectly understandable to us that there's one matter in which we're not even home as a state. Consumer protection has been discussed intensively in Croatia for the past 10 years. Before that, these were general categories that we didn't understand much, and the fact is that the EU space is in this sense experienced in many ways, much more experienced than Croatia and that we are likely to, it is my assessment, and in the coming years, harmonize the rules concerning the protection of consumer rights, regardless of what documents have been adopted long ago. And now we're going back to what's called a criticism of the HDZ Club that doesn't really stand at all because thank God there's the Internet and everything checks out. I would like to remind you that the Consumer Protection Act was passed in 2007, that you changed it in 2009 and that the same legal property and the same directive were called upon in amending that law. And to be a matter until the end of the true directive that we are talking about was adopted on 11 May 2005. Therefore, a colleague of the Mlakar and his HDZ colleagues first take a nap on the head and then you can criticize the other. So, you have already convinced this Croatian Parliament several times as the HDZ Government that we are passing regulations on an urgent procedure, P.Z.E. which are already in line with the European acquis. So it wasn't possible to make your government, either, so when you talk about it on the same subject to this government, at least remember that you're not completely clean either. Furthermore, as far as these solutions are being introduced, which may not be clear at first sight, and that is why we are talking about the rulebook, I remind you that the biggest problem is when people are hot-tempered or not hot-tempered by certain services. First of all, it's about different prize games. To fill out any form of personal data to participate in any prize game among other things, you need to enable whoever organises this award game, and it is about manufacturers, shopping centres or chains of teleoperators to use your data for their own marketing campaign or marketing needs. So once you signed that, you gave them all the data that was in that form and it's hard to get rid of it. On the other hand, when you buy some of the products many citizens instinctively because they liked this product, they agree to be informed about the products of the company or that distributor without having any idea how often and how they will be notified to these products, and it doesn't matter if they bought white technique, they will be informed about brasils, cutters, blinds or anything else. The moment you signed or at least put a cross in that space intended for you to allow information materials to be sent to you, so you didn't think about it because you didn't have a clue, and the information about who you need to report to cancel it as some kind of service, you don't have them anymore, these papers are gone because you left them there because you sent them to that company, to that retail chain by mail or whatever you were to communicate with. So you can no longer find this information coma and how you can cancel that type of service. So if the logic is that promotion and marketing is part of the free market and part of free market behaviour and that it must be as allowed to any producer that appears on the market and any distributor that transmits these products, then your logic is that those who want to receive information about certain products do not stand because by that logic you should report if you do not want to watch advertising on the sale of a certain type of oil, I do not know any household supplies or food products, so that is impossible. So it's not the logic of the free market, the logic of the free market is to exclude yourself from what you don't want. And in this particular case, the solution with the register is the most elegant possible solution. Whoever does not want to be harassed with promotional messages will enter the register, whoever ignores it will be fined, it is no longer his concern or if he is harassed has someone to finally report it to. And let me say it one more time in the end, so the HNS club will support the government's proposal on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119701	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119702	In fact, it's not a replica in that sense that we disagree, but I did not say that it was consummated by the law, but I stressed that these are complementary laws and that I would like it to be seen in this sense in the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119703	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119704	I may have mispronounced myself, but I didn't think you said it was consummated and it really did say it was complementary, but our view is that the fundamental idea of your law was consummated by last Friday's law, one other though. But this problem that you intend to solve with this law has been solved by some other law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119705	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119706	Don't you think, then, all together, regardless of the political option which is when which directive is otherwise the directive when it carries a year does not mean that it applies from that year on. you have a directive which is 6, 7 years old but national legislation does not comply with them. And don't you think that when we talk about consumer protection we should start with what our citizens pay every day, it's telecommunications services, it's communal services. Look, we brought in a change in Croatia as the gas consumption is calculated. There is no household that can calculate how much gas it has spent because gas is paid according to heat power, etc. You count the number of calories on your count. And then what happens to you, comes the bill in the year where winter was strong, compare it to the account from the previous year when winter was extremely warm, the price of energy went slightly worse but in that whole story it's irrelevant because your account in that year is much higher than in the year when winter was strong or let's say what happens to teleoperators. So look at the bills paid by Croatian households. They offer you a family package like this, so people sign it at the end of telecommunications services cost you the Internet rather than cost you electricity, water, gas, etc. Or what bothers both yours and my fellow citizens, which is that collective warming where practically nothing is divided and everyone pays something for someone. I think we must essentially work here to protect consumers because this is what our fellow citizens pay for every day. And what someone calls them anyway is something that's periodical. And in principle, all of our citizens would understand what that means to protect consumers, then we need to settle these basics, and then further build on the EU directives that some things have been doing for 40 or 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119707	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119708	Comrade Shuker, look at this paradox now, so everything you said is absolutely standing. And what's the problem? The problem is that you're not the new representative here yesterday, so you haven't been able to comment or suggest solutions before. So you, don't be angry if I use that word by one of the veterans of the Croatian Parliament, you've been elected in several terms, you've been minister, so you've been directly or indirectly able to suggest better solutions to all these issues because the problems in calculating and protecting consumer rights towards teleopers, gas distributors don't last since yesterday. The intruder can't be heard. But we have teleopers that exist a lot longer. So, what would I expect of you as a man with longer experience? A concrete proposal, that's what a representative can do. If he needs assistance and it is a duty to give him even the Croatian Parliament's secretariat if not his club to step out of practice in his way, to keep talking about how something should be, rather than actually saying it in what way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119709	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. There is a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected colleague of Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119710	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, the segment of the consumer rights system at EU level is extremely dynamic as a result of frequent changes and addition of existing rules to make protection of consumer rights more effective. Therefore, the national legal framework for consumer protection is also a dynamic tissue that has a positive impact on the development of the Croatian consumer protection system by permanent alignment with European directives. The EU Directives so far have given some opportunity for Member States to provide for other solutions than those envisaged by the Directive, but the latest directives are based on the concept of maximum harmonisation, i.e. give very little room for Member States to be autonomous in this part of the legislation, which may be a problem given the unequal development of the market for Member States. Thus, some problems related to the Croatian market are no longer a problem in developed EU markets where they have become part of good business practice, and the same problems with consumer protection that arise in developed markets in Croatia and in other transition countries are not as current as in other transition countries. the way in which consumers are informed of action sales and reductions. The regulation of specific national rules on sales with benefits such as action sales and seasonal reductions, according to the European Commission, questioned the implementation of the Unfair Business Practice Directive, which has been regulated in general and thus violated EU law. For these very reasons, this proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act also contains compliance with the EU Directive on unfair business practice. This Directive, which applies to the EU-wide area, aims to make it more transparent and fairer for traders against consumers, i.e. that all information transmitted to consumers is clear to ensure that the consumer is not deceived and that it is not exposed to aggressive marketing or behaviour. In nature, the unfair business practice of traders refers to a frequent telephone call that has already been so many words that traders use to sell, offer their services and products. Such a practice does not concern daily time or frequency of calls and does not take into account the consumer sample that is being contacted, and often this practice aggressively goes against the most sensitive population, which is children and the population of the third age. Therefore, this Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act proposes a draft introduction of a register in which the numbers of those persons who have declared themselves wanting to receive such marketing messages or calls would be found. Furthermore, this legislative proposal provides for the register to be run by the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, or HACOM, because it is within the framework of its business dealings with competition in electronic communications. In the SDP club, we feel equally important that this bill respects the problem of practice relating to the conclusion of a contract through telephone conversation. By this practice, consumers were often unaware that they had concluded any contract, so we welcome the proposal in this law, which stipulates that the contract is agreed by a telephone conversation only when the consumer sends the trader a valid contract. This legislative proposal provides for the adoption of a regulation that will address the problems of starting seasonal reductions and also foresees more active involvement of local self-government units in the consumer rights segment in such a way as to provide that representatives of local self-government units are also part of the National Consumer Protection Council. For all of these and not the above reasons, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119711	Thank you, too. Does the Proposer's representative want a final? No, I don't. We've exhausted the debate. Whether the representative, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We've exhausted the debate on the text of the law, it's over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 891. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club and the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like an honorary Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119713	Amendment of the Club of Representatives
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119714	Slowly, we'll take our turn, dear deputy. First, the HDSSB and MPs club Drazen Djurović and Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119715	The amendment is not accepted because the applicant considers that the provision of a applicable law setting out the obligation for the trader to draw up a written offer with a description of the works and the materials and parts used in repairs of a greater value than 500 kuna fully corresponds to the actual circumstances and prices on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119716	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119717	Well, thank you. Since we call for the competitiveness of the economy and for the improvement of the entrepreneurship climate, this amendment was on the trail of the HOK amendment, i.e. their proposal from the public debate, to actually enable it to be made possible, to make a commitment to the issuer of product repair and maintenance services that should be issued in advance, in fact, a precalculation for amounts greater than 750 kuna. I will remind myself that the regular maintenance of boilers and some household appliances exceeds 500 kuna and that we are in fact introducing an administrative obligation to all small, small craftsmen who are engaged in maintenance and repairing products that they must issue a specification and offer with the amount and services of the estimated consumption of material and such. They complained that it would actually make it administratively difficult for them and that they would have to hire people who would just write them different offers for such a small amount. Therefore, this amendment was in fact to only slightly increase this amount to the amount they themselves proposed in the public debate. I am therefore sorry, in fact, that the motionary did not adopt this and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119718	Please vote on the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic and Krešimir Bubal, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Second amendment, same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119719	The amendment is not accepted. In this respect, the rules governing the area of electronic communications set out detailed deadlines and procedures for the exercise of consumer rights, thus ensuring a high level of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119720	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119721	Well, thank you. I am also sorry that the applicant does not accept this amendment. So, in this article, which is not bad, and it's good for Croatian consumers, so it's the obligation of telephone service providers to agree on the phone, so when someone calls you on the phone and says if you're going to buy it, we're offering it, and so far you've said yes, yes, and he would, yes, you'd actually have a valid contract. In this way, many consumers have been deceived. This Article introduces the obligation of that tenderer to inform you in writing and to send you a written offer that you must sign and return to it. That's good, but what's not good is that these articles are excluded just by teleopers. So teleopers are allowed to keep calling you, to offer and change tariff models in a way that presents you a story, you say that, yes, and you've changed the tariff model. That's not fair to consumers. And this amendment is about teleopers having an obligation after you said yes, to send you a telephone and a written square about it, you accepted it. Therefore, I do not see why the promoter does not put teleopers in an equal position with all market participants and thus protect Croatian consumers. So it's the intensity of this amendment to be quite clear. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this but continues to favor teleoperators and allows them to continue to call you by phone, offer you tariff services and after you have said that they have recorded the call, it has been interrupted and your contractual relationship is confused in one unfair way. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119722	Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the HDSB Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I note that Amendment number 2 of the HDSSB Representatives Clubs did not receive the necessary majority. We are going to the amendments to the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Deputy Minister, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119723	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment to the proposed provision would mean the regulation of the rules that come out of the framework of European legislation, i.e. the consumer rights directive itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119724	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119725	I thought the amendment would be accepted, so I wasn't sure. But I'd be surprised. The point of the law is to protect consumers. And by this amendment, it is forbidden to send calls and messages via phone to all consumers except those who have entered the consumer register is in terms of consumer protection. But you bring that ban on making phone calls but that those who do not want that ban must be entered in the register. I don't know why or why you're refusing a higher proposal. The amendment actually, the point is not to allow harassment and now that they agree to harassment they are privileged and those to which the legal provision is determined they must be additionally entered in the register. It's just like you're passing the Association Act to someone and then you say they're all members of the association if they're not particularly registered in the register that they don't want to be a member of the association. Great logic. Or let's just say that in college, all the students if they want to stay out of the exam, they have to report that they don't want to take the exam. Or, for example, if anyone does not want to vote, it must be entered in the register of voters. Or the latest ones, you'll all consider yourself refugees if you didn't sign up for the register that you didn't want to be considered refugees. And then we'll transport all of you to Austria. I don't really know. Disclosure is a component of this article, but dyslogism is your recognizability. Refusal of such an amendment is mocking logic, mocking meaning, mocking all of us and the whole people. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119726	We would like to vote on the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club No. 1 which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, number one. Amendment number one of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119727	It's unacceptable. As I have already explained to the regulations governing the area of electronic communication, detailed deadlines are laid down for the exercise of consumer rights itself, thus ensuring a high level of consumer protection itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119728	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119729	It is again incomprehensible to reject the amendment's proposals. Because Article 66a provides that a trader is obliged to offer something by written means, and that is why it is called the Consumer Protection Act, mostly because of a teleoperator. And then paragraph 3 is shown that the written offer obligation does not apply to teleopers. We'll protect you from the teleoperator, so they won't be subject to the law. Great, then you should have written not the Consumer Protection Act, but the Teleoper Protection Act. You'd just as well write forbidden parking to everyone except car drivers. You'd write in a hotel pool forbidden topless except for women. That's your logic. You should put this example in logic textbooks. But what's most interesting is that at school you'd get a straight "A" from a dictatorship because you wrote exactly what the teleopers dictated to you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119730	Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 2 has not received the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of the 76 votes, the 23 votes were abstentioned, 14 votes against the passed law of P.Z.E. No.891 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now we're going to go further into the debate by law in the agenda. And it's time to say: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Election Registration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 904. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports from these committees at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Does the motionary's representative want an extra one? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119791	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House with a brief addition to the Law on the Registration of Voters for two reasons. The law has only five articles of which are the last to enter into force, which means that the following is the case, since the amendments to the ID law have been made available to Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia to issue an identity card on which the residence information outside the Republic of Croatia will be, we have assessed that this administrative step that citizens make is sufficient to be in the list of voters and that these citizens do not have to be actively registered. At this point, we have about 12,000 Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia, so it is about voters who have the right to vote in the 11th constituency who have requested and received a ID card, of which 8 thousand is in BiH, which is approximately proportional to what we have of the total number of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, and at the latest there are more than 700 thousand, thus facilitating voting for citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We estimate that this mechanism is sufficient to remove possible irregularities in the voters' register because the Republic of Croatia has no data on deceased citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, and no state body of other countries is obliged to inform the Republic of Croatia, and therefore an active registration institute has been established. We estimate that already the current number of citizens who have a identity card surpasses the number of citizens who have been in the last 4 election cycles since the possibility of voting was introduced in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representatives who voted in the elections held. The second amendment concerns the possibility of someone applying for a vote in another village of the same unit of local self-government. In fact, we have several units of local self-government that have islands in their composition and so far there has been a restriction that someone who is from Zadar cannot report that they are voting on Iza or on Olib and vice versa, so that we are removing this illogicality. This is very short, given that it is a matter of facilitating access to the polling post for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially as regards the vote of non-residents in the Republic of Croatia, and I call on all clubs to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119792	We have a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119793	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, it is true that the introduction of this electronic identity card makes it easier for citizens to communicate previously thinking about the active registration of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. But there is a question of discrimination against this law. what does this mean that citizens do not have to have an active registration, and those who have an ordinary ID card have to have an active registration or do this apply to those citizens or not? I didn't understand it in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119794	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119795	Thank you. So as far as citizens outside the Republic of Croatia are concerned, they only have an electronic identity card because only this year can they have. So now everyone has the right to electronics so this issue does not concern citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence, there is no one who has an old ID card because they could not even have changed in 2015. So if the question was for citizens who didn't have a place of residence, then the answer was, was that a question? Yes, so there are no citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and who have an old ID card because it could not be issued or issued because until the amendment of the ID card Act only had citizens with residence in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119796	Honorable representative Ivan Schucker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119797	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the provision to vote can only be taken in consular representations we have practically taken away the right to vote to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And we can now talk about active, not active, electronic, not electronic but the latest elections for the election of the president of the Republic of Croatia have shown how the Croatian state discriminated on its citizens. And this is okay. What you have written here, however, I repeat that it is only voted in consular representations that practically took away the right to vote to the Croats. The more the elections usually happen in the winter months. Another thing, who knows the configuration above all BiH, and when you look at where consular representations are, let's say the consular representation in Banja Luka won't have any rush. Why? Because unfortunately, the Croats are gone. Those who have been expelled have not returned. But where Croats definitely live, it is primarily central Bosnia and Herzegovina and the part down from the area of Livna and Tomislavgrad are practically disabled in their vote. And I think we need to think about it, and then we need to think about some other things because especially when it comes to parliamentary elections, if we have given them the right to vote, then let's give them the opportunity to express their democratic right. In this way we are definitely more than 95% of the Croats in BiH, we have taken away their right to vote with a provision to vote only in consular representations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119798	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119799	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Shucker for this sentence that what we suggested is okay. in the circumstances defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So this provision on voting in diplomatic and consular representations is the fruit of an inter-party agreement on changes to the Constitution in 2010 and until a different inter-party agreement is reached that could get two-thirds in the Croatian Parliament, which would then include perhaps also in some other way we are doing it under these circumstances. So I can technically agree with everything you said. The fact is that this constitutional provision reduces the impact of voting outside the Republic of Croatia on the overall outcome of the elections for the President of the Republic for the European Parliament and the state referendum and does not have a significant impact on the outcome of the elections for the Croatian Parliament because, as part of this agreement, it is limited to both more and more MPs in the 11th constituency on three, so technically as many polling stations as it has been, it is generally that all three MPs may be this time, it may not be, I can't, I won't have a drastic impact on that. But I believe, therefore, that the issue will also be raised as part of some new inter-party agreement with constitutional changes, so we will see what this inter-party agreement will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119800	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the ORAH club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119801	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The ORAH Club would probably not have any dilemma when it comes to this law which practically improves the assembly and registration of voters but, as the minister explained within that, the reasons for the adoption and amendment of this law are primarily because of the electronic card. But I have to ask myself one question to myself and you whether the adoption of such a law of maltern in the week when it should disband the Croatian Parliament is well, whether such a law could not have been passed long ago knowing that in the 5th month we passed the Law on the ID card that it was published in the National Journal of 6.6. I think whether it's a discrepancy and non-cooperation between certain ministries that it's taken so long to wait so long that the practicals just technically agree something and improve the law, or it's kind of a negligence, and then we get the last head to the wall, and then we see where we are, and then we go to change something. I'm afraid this is another issue because I think the Law on the ID card and the Law on the register of voters could have been almost parallel to going and already adopted, and now where we are, I don't think that's good in any case. Especially since the Law on the ID was passed, and in this part of the public debate that was on the law itself, it lasted from 24.8 to 2.9. and we practically had one hasty situation to pass this law. What I can say on behalf of the club is not the problem of the law itself, the problem is the procedure and the problem is the adoption of this law and it is a fundamental observation and we will definitely see about it and consider whether we will be restrained about this law or we will vote for it. That is not why I repeat that the provisions in the very law that the minister has very well explained, and they are quite clear and they are necessary to enter into a change of law but because of the way and the moment in which this law is passed. Here's the shortest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119802	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119803	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to agree with you that the time of adoption of the law is not very well affected, practically on the week in which the Assembly is disbanding we are passing a law that will partly have a clear impact on the electoral procedure, i.e. the fact that these laws do not require an active registration by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live outside Croatia. And I don't think that's a happy solution. It would be a good solution if all citizens of the Republic of Croatia living outside Croatia did not have to... Register. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because what difference does it make when it comes to a polling station? A citizen who comes with an e-examination shall be checked for his identity as the identity of that citizen who is actively registered if... A passport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps, I don't know if Minister and Mr Babic understood enough in the replica, so I understood that, so colleague Antu Babic, that the question is the same as the right of all citizens living outside Croatia when they go to this election? Those who have an e-card will not have to have such registration and those who have a passport and are citizens of the Republic of Croatia when they arrive at the polling post will not be able to come or join the vote unless they have been actively registered before. I don't see why, to whom we make a concession in this way and whether it is a good and quality solution until the end. So I don't see that this law works in this sense for some people, but for those who haven't in the meantime made a ID card, their e-card remains the procedure that has so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119804	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119805	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Bačić, I always think that some things should be simplified wherever they can be simplified to be better-quality solutions. But in any case, I agree with you because of the work and the misunderstandings and the part of the problems that might arise because we will have elections very soon and only because of that part I do not agree in this way that this law has been passed. Certain provisions the minister himself said that all those who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia have requested a ID card to have an e-card, so that part is not a problem. It is not a problem for those who have an e-card, and they want to vote somewhere else on the day within their constituency to regulate it, and I think that these are the solutions that are good in the law, but it is not a good way for us to have a week of Malta not before Parliament's disbanding, and the elections are here before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119806	The problem is citizens who have no residence at all. On behalf of the motionary, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119807	Thank you. I have to say, I kind of understand the dilemma that Mr. Tušak said about timing. I'll try to explain why this timing. So the Law on the ID card, as you yourself said in June 2015, came into force or was published in the National Journal and we watched for a month the effects of this law, so whether people are using this right and whether it could be, whether the recognition of that right and in this electoral procedure would be good quality, because if it were 500 people, only 500 people who used this right would have no purpose to come to representatives with such a proposal. When there are 12,000, it's certainly a different situation. And because of this, somewhere in the 7th month, when we saw what it looked like we were going to do to change the Law on the Registration of Voters in order to facilitate access to the polling post for citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, fully respecting the restrictions that Mr Shuker expressed in his replica to my presentation, but it is another place and time for these recommendations to be resolved. It is not the Law on the register of voters, it is a possible addition or amendment of the Constitution. What we now have in this context I think this is a correct solution, that's what the promoters said. As far as the timing of the election is concerned, we were unable to influence the adoption of the Law on the ID card. He went through his procedure in two readings. We could have influenced the adoption of this law, we estimated that the amount of changes did not require a broad public debate for a month. The very fact that it is technical changes that facilitate access is also proof that there is no objection to the bill has shown that we were right there. Now, as regards the entry into force of the law, it is said in the last article that the law enters into force on the first day of the day of its publication, which is a sign that the urgency to apply to these elections is. If it is the wish of the representatives' clubs not to apply it to these elections, but I don't see why it would be, so I will accept that criticism about the impression of timing compared to the elections, but when you look at timing in relation to the amendments to the Law on the ID card it is the first next session of the Parliament. So it didn't go parallel because it wanted to see the effects of the I.D. Act. When it comes to life, when it is 12,000 citizens and it is in the last three weeks of 2000, so next week it can be another 1,000, and for the next elections, whatever they are, the next are local, well they don't vote citizens, but then they behind the president, they'll already be one decent number. So here, if that's enough to explain to you that in the debate about voting for or abstention, to get a little closer to this side for, I'll be pleased to have taken these few minutes to explain it. As for the dilemma of MP Bačić, in this case the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equated with citizens outside the Republic of Croatia because you cannot access the polling post immediately in the Republic of Croatia if you do not have a valid ID card. So now it's even and it was one way of intensifying the I.D. Act. Of course, I say again, constitutional provisions are to be agreed on, and I would have no objection to the amendment of the Law or the election of MPs to the Croatian Parliament in such constitutional decisions of 3 MPs, with certain technical repairs which would then have a certain better control effect. And as for one administrative step more that must now be made by citizens in Croatia and outside Croatia, the situation would be the next. We had almost 250,000 citizens with invalid IDs and we had a huge proportion between the number of adult residents and the number of voters, somewhere around 600,000. By passing the Law on residence and applying it, that number is reduced by about 250 000 and now the need for this additional administrative step is much smaller than it was in 2012 and I think that soon, so after the next elections we will analyse or analyse, we should leave this one administrative step higher, but it is the same to all citizens at this point and I do not think that it is disproportionate to the goal that it is intended to achieve, and it concerns greater confidence in the list of voters that is now in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119808	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119809	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, the fact is that on election day in the 11th electoral unit, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live abroad will join. One will approach with an orderly ID card he received under the new law and should not... And it will come to him, immediately behind him will come a Croatian citizen who lives in the 11th constituency with a valid passport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he won't be able to access it unless he's actively registered before that. I just wanted to say that I hold that one and the other have a valid document to prove Croatian citizenship and which is and which document did not expire on this which has a passport and he will have to be actively registered in order to vote. And this one that has the same document that proves Croatian citizenship outside the Republic of Croatia and lives outside the Republic of Croatia does not have to do so. It doesn't seem to me that, in the constitutional and legal sense, or that they're not equal on the day, the two of them, on the day of the election when they vote in the 11th constituency. That's what I was gonna say. Both I think and I think it is not the same position as the two who have both valid documents issued by the Republic of Croatia and which identifies their citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119810	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119811	There's two of them, two of them are things to point out. What you said was true for citizens outside the Republic of Croatia in the eleventh is also true for ten electoral units. The person who comes and doesn't have a valid ID card at the time he comes won't be able to vote, and if he has a valid ID card then the same goes for the diaspora. But when he takes a valid I.D. in the police department, he doesn't need to be registered for five years. It's two election cycles from today. So now they are in the same situation citizens who have no residence with those who have a place of residence. As for the fact that he won't be able to access the polls, it's partly true. He'll be able to access the polls when he goes to the other room and gets confirmation. So they'll be able to vote both. If he couldn't vote then it would be, then it would really be, it wouldn't be in line, it would be disproportionately difficult to access the polls. This is how we assessed it and this provision has been in force for three years and is always being reconsidered, that at this point there are reasons that require this additional administrative, administrative action for persons to exercise their right to vote. No one, so one and the other who comes to the polls will eventually be able to vote. Only this one will have to take another step. We can discuss whether it is necessary and it is always a legitimate debate and I led you to the Parliament, being outside the Parliament to discuss it. But in the five election cycles that we have had since the adoption of the Law on Election Registration, so there have been local elections, twice European elections, a state referendum and presidential elections. There were no big remarks that someone couldn't vote. There's always a way to get to the polls if you're in your place of residence. And these changes in the polls by electronic means if you're not in place, we've made it easier for the place of residence so here's another step and I think we've circled the whole story with e-IDs and the Home Act, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119812	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119813	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said in the explanation of your colleagues that you actually saw in these last elections that the vast majority of Croatian citizens responded to the elections, and this also goes in favour of facilitating them from voting outside the Republic of Croatia. One of the motifs that came from your ministry is actually an active registration of these same voters. Now, we speak as Croats, Croatian state, Croatian citizens for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. The fact that they live outside the Republic of Croatia is, in some ways, punished when they want to exercise their right to vote, which allows them the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 45, and you are aware of that and you have also partly explained it. However, what Mr Shuker was saying may be that if he had the will in diplomatic and consular representations, we would have more polling stations and in this way we would have allowed at least some way and given satisfaction to these people that it is possible for more to come out on the day of the election. I say it's physically impossible in certain diplomatic and consular representations because of the vote itself. Now, if you see that they are voting outside the Republic of Croatia, that certain diplomatic and consular representations are very far from their place of residence, and yet we still have to make an active registration, we are actually competing to punish them in any way, that is to say, away from the possibility that they actually have the same and general electoral right as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what this is about. And what you said in the end is one experiment on Croatian citizens and it's not only your problem, but it's the problem of many in the government of the Republic of Croatia who actually experiment, and then they see that it's not good and then they change it. In this case, I welcome it, but it could have been done differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119814	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119815	Thank you. As for the number of polling stations, this will be determined by the State Election Commission. I estimate that at least one diplomatic-consularal, or one seat of diplomatic-consular representations, in Mostar, will now have a slightly larger number of polling stations than it was for the presidential elections. I think that's how it's gonna be. As for the crowds that were at the polling station, the fact is that the same law was true for both the first and the second round of elections, only mobilization was something different, so it was. ... Yeah, that's right. [[You can't hear it.]] But you can see that the law for the first round of elections worked. So these were one of the more extraordinary circumstances, but all those who wanted to vote voted eventually. So they eventually voted. Maybe they'd wait half an hour less or an hour less, but they voted. And everyone who asked for confirmation got confirmation. So it didn't decide the election and that it decided then it was better that it decided on such a restrictive system, rather than having dilemmas about it had been voted dead or all that was said for the 2005 election. So in this context this increases the credibility of the electoral process. As for experimentation, so I can't quite agree in this part that this is where it was experimented. Namely, the first time it was seen that the Institute’s identity cards for non-citizens in the Republic of Croatia gave certain results were also reacted to this small amendment of the law. So it's not an experiment. We believed that this would be the case, and here it was two months after the I.D. Law came into effect and we reacted with this supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119816	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Davorin Mlakar and Ivan Shuker will speak. ... Then Davor's Mlakar, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119817	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and I'm sorry that the President of the Parliament has disappeared, and I had the impression that he has something to say about this subject. Mr. Minister, it is not so important that you accept in your exposés rather than the Croatian Parliament. But the stories that in 2005 they voted dead by the basis of an earlier law necessarily stimulates me to tell you that, unfortunately, under your law, I cannot vote alive. And the fact that they voted dead may have been the blame of members of the SDP who were on election committees, if we are to discuss it. I don't know if it's been reported that a dead man came to the polls and gave his voice to anyone, but it all seems necessary in the pre-election debates. Obviously with these pictures you've been providing all the time as far as the laws governing the election are concerned. I ask the first question on behalf of the HDZ Club, in accordance with Article 204(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to pass laws by emergency procedure, be careful now, in order to facilitate the process of participation in the preparation of the list of voters for the upcoming elections. This sentence, which could make logical remarks, should mean that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. A particularly justified reason is the process of participation in the preparation. Honestly, I can't believe it's true. But of course that's less important, the second question is whether now in the last week of the Parliament's session in this session. Which means we're 60 days away from the election as far as possible if we believe in announcements. You're changing the Law on Election Registration. If I were to go into our recent past so I could say what your party president said in 2011, the current Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, and the former president of the state of Josipovic, said that 9 months before the election, the Law on Election Units would not make too much sense because you had already changed the electoral legislation 2 months before the elections. It's the last time the law on the election of the President of the Republic. It didn't help, it didn't help you, and the result is what you didn't want. But that's less important. It is more important that the shame we do to ourselves and the precedents that we re-introduce to Parliament that we change the laws concerning these same elections 2 months before the elections. It's an unrelentingly very bad practice that you promoted in the term of office of this government. And now we're going to talk about the essence. What is the essence of this law? Your colleagues have tried to formulate it politely, because of our public, as our president likes to say, I will read these provisions of the law if we happen to be followed by someone to make it clear to everyone. Article 28 of the current law states: "The active registration of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out to vote abroad or the Republic of Croatia in elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the state referendum and the election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. The active registration of voters who will vote abroad in a particular consular area shall be carried out by the diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Croatia. These are the same ones where those who have actively registered will be able to vote on the day of the election." You've already said several thesises that seriously question your intentions. Speaking in your address to Parliament, you said so here we allowed Mostar to vote all those who wanted to go to the last elections and we believe there will be more polling stations in Mostar and for these elections, if I have followed well. So I'm asking you what kind of interpretation of the law is that? If polling stations are closed at all times, how is it possible to close in Mostar three hours later? It is possible, because you did not want to listen to everything we have told you in lawmaking, that you have restrictedly approached the elections in a way that you have a huge number of people who have the right to choose by the Constitution and to be chosen to make it impossible. Or if you want to make it the least difficult. I can't imagine what would motivate a Croat living in Dallas, Texas to travel to Los Angeles or New York to vote in the elections held in the Republic of Croatia, and he has the right to do so. Second, Mr. Minister, what you're saying about E's identity cards is how you're going to allow some people to exercise their right to vote, you've actually said the most important thing we've been telling you since you passed the first law. You've made it possible for the work of those of that great number that you've rightfully disabled, and that's the problem with this law. It is not a problem that you have allowed 10 or 12 thousand of those who have an E ID card to vote but the problem in 300 thousand of those who do not have the right to do so, do not, unless they are actively registered and pass this complicated unnecessary procedure that applies to one voter and does not apply to those who live in the Republic of Croatia. ... You want to talk to me instead, or are you gonna hold back and let me finish? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's not why you're gonna make it impossible for me to say what I'm trying to say. You have, by passing laws to a large number of people, who are guaranteed by the Constitution by the right to do so by the fact that two months before the elections, you are reducing the number of people to whom this law was concerned, or you are repairing damages for a small number of them, is not the solution to the problem that you brought us to. Unfortunately, everything we said that there are only two criteria, that you are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that you are over 18 years old, as the Croatian Constitution said, was not enough to allow these people to participate in the elections. And all these acrobatics that were later passed and the Law on Election Register and some other election laws, you've only further complicated the situation. And what you're saying in defense of the proceedings, I'm going to prove to you, for example, that it's not true. Personal ID, that's probably most people know how to issue to the Ministry of the Interior. Your identity card is a document that proves your identity, and you can prove your residence. The identity of the equally valuable document is proved by your passport. And now you're having the next case debated the election, people coming to the polling station, and at the polling station they're not on your created list of voters. They get the following instructions, you're not on the voters list because your ID card is expired. And if that person gives you a passport instead of a identity card that's valid, it won't be able to vote because it's not on the list of voters, an extract for that polling post. The voter committee then instructs the person on how this issue can be resolved and sends it to the local municipality to raise a vote. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, who's substituting for that ID card? In your understanding of the electoral process and the right identity card, it replaces the municipality's confirmation that this person is on the former list of voters now called the register of voters who did not suit you because, according to your testimony, your party and your coalition partners were hundreds of thousands of unfairly registered people. I have a concrete case from practice, and I even told you that the municipality issued a certificate based on a register that you do not essentially recognise and thus usurp the right of another Ministry of Interior that should issue you a valid ID card so that you return to the polling post and vote. Now, that's what you're doing in practice in the implementation of this unsuspecting law. But it's all less important at this point, and we told you about it, but we didn't impress you with anything. The problem is that even under this law, the largest number of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia will not be able to vote in these elections unless they are a special type of voters, and that is the kind that must be re-registered for each election. So now we have voters in Croatia who are ordinary voters, we have voters who have to register with a residence abroad and had E voters who are abroad but who got a new ID card so they don't need a previous registration. This has nothing to do with the constitutional equality of citizens before the law or the possibility guaranteed by the Constitution to choose and be elected in this case in parliamentary elections. That's what we were talking about talking about your laws and having the law come into force on the first day of publication in the People's Journal, which is usually a rule used exclusively for the most important things, only for things that don't suffer a delay. If you already wanted to make it easier for one narrow round of voters to go to the elections, you admitted that you took away a lot more than the same right, but you could also offer this law to the Croatian Parliament three or four months ago, so we would not say that you came to the last session, and that there was correctness as you once stood for, then you should have offered it a year before the parliamentary elections. Since all this has not happened, since I will not use the rhetoric of your politicians who have represented your views, I will only tell you that this law makes it easier for a small part but continues to unfairly discriminate on a much larger number, so this law is absolutely unnecessary for Croatian and Croatian voters. If you wanted to correct the mistakes you led to, you should have deleted the registration obligation for all those who have the right to vote and do not live in Croatia. That would be a gesture worth saying hello to. This doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119818	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119819	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Mlakar has been amending election legislation for a month or two before the elections is not only the exclusiveity of these elections. As you said, you also mentioned the Law on the Election of Presidents, i.e. the President of the Republic of Croatia, I would remind you that this exclusiveness had a whole series of laws on election of members of the presidential bodies of units of the local and regional self-government, as well as the election of mayors, mayors and mayors, when we had the same few months before the elections, you well remembered that and to a significant extent the entire legislative regulation of these elections. On the other hand, I also tried in replicas earlier, saying that this law does not make it possible to come to elections and vote in a certain number of Croatian citizens who do not live in Croatia. The question of how many will join the election in the first place. But I don't see, I still don't see why citizens of the Republic of Croatia who don't have an I.D. on any of the ordinary I.D. cards would make it difficult for them to access the polling post with the necessary active registration when they own as I have already said the valid documents of the Republic of Croatia which prove their nationality. And clearly, then, that identification based on a passport for citizens living in the 11th constituency, so abroad is quite enough document to be able to exercise their right to vote outside Croatia and they acquire it clearly in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119820	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119821	Here's my colleague Bacic, asking a question that the government doesn't have a logical answer. I'm going to abuse this time of replica, so I'm going to say as a guide. These are not the first elections to be held in Croatia, and we were once in charge of conducting the elections, so we got to not think necessarily now about how we like to confront the political HDZ, the SDP, we received mandatory instructions from the State Election Commission. I think it was 2 and 7 somewhere from 2002, I don't know, age, some in '07. in which it stands, translated into that you are required in the polling post to enable any person who can be identified and is on the list of voters to participate in the elections or vote for the options offered. So it's for example. A Croatian citizen living in Australia with an expired driver's license, an invalid Australian driver's license, had to be allowed to vote because the basic principle was that the election board could determine his identity. Today is not enough to have your ID card, it has to be valid, it's not even worth a valid passport for you to vote because Minister Bauk has already deleted you from the list of voters. You are not there at all, you must fight first in order to return to the voters' list at all, and you will do so on the basis of certificates issued on the basis of a list of voters who have been working on the HDZ government's work so strongly criticised. So total unnecessary rsomone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119822	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119823	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Mr. Mlakar you have well noticed and repeated it several times and I don't think it's worse to repeat this another time related to voters' lists, in fact, that with the aim of taking care of these lists of voters and their greater updates for each election, registers are actually being made, voters' lists are being made and it is being made by voters who have actively registered. This active registration, in fact, we have often been warned about the 11th electoral unit, namely the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and many of them have appeared to the ministry itself and to the minister himself. And what people actually ask is this discrimination why people are actively registering outside the Republic of Croatia and, for example, do not do so in the Republic of Croatia, which is why. And you may have forgotten that, by virtue of that House Act, all those Croatian citizens who did not actually take care of their residences by the end of the year, in 2014, they actually lost that residence by law, which is how they lost the right to their ID card, so here is the part, maybe the minister wanted to fix the situation a little bit. I hope that was also going in this direction, but not quite discriminatory enough and again, and that's why this categorization that you've now made is a new one in a series, which is just the voters, the e-choices, voters with regular ID cards and e-cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119824	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119825	Dear colleague Babic, you asked yourself, and the answer is very simple. Our roughness to say, I don't know what the best term is, emigrants, Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, are good when it comes to investment, when it comes to contact with those countries, perhaps even economic cooperation and were great and oblivional accepted in the Homeland War. Now it's slowly excruciating, here and there, we still recognize some sports results that we like to admire, but in principle we don't need for elections. And when you are wondering how this country of origin can keep pushing through parliament laws that discriminate against a group of Croatian citizens, then you must necessarily get an answer. The ruling does not correspond to the previous historical result that the parties received political support from the evicted Croatia. They've managed to raise all their representatives to three MPs, yes, but that's not enough either. There is still a need to show the emigrated Croatia that they are there as needed, I said when we need them, but we do not need them for the election because we are afraid that there are no votes there and that is the only truth and solution to this whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119826	On behalf of the motionary, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119827	Thank you. First of all, I apologize to Commissioner Mlakar for disturbing him while he was speaking, but I tried to correct one piece of information to a large extent. So it's not 300,000, 742770 is voters without residence in the Republic of Croatia, so 742770 on September 10th is voters who have the right to vote in the 11th constituency. As far as the difference is concerned, so somewhere around 300,000 more than it was for the 2011 elections and these are voters who were in the register of voters in the Republic of Croatia who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, they have the right to vote because they are Croatian citizens and are in the register of voters, so to speak. The diaspora that will be on the list of voters or voters for the 11th constituency. As for this law that allegedly made it difficult, not to say, you used that term made it difficult for citizens to vote in diplomatic and consular representations, I'm going to give you two information that will completely deny it. In the 2011 parliamentary elections, 21100 voters voted in diplomatic and consular representations, out of which 15988 voters who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia and this rest therefore 5200 who have their residence outside the Republic of Croatia. So it was the law, the old law on the 2011 voters' census when it wasn't this active registration and voted it meant 21,000, 16000 of those living in Croatia who live abroad so-called Gastarbyters and another 5100 so-called They make diaspora. And then came this discriminatory law and in the 2015 elections 16000 votes of those who were resident in the Republic of Croatia and vote abroad and 21,000 who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. So when we discriminated, closed down, put on active registration, and four times as many people took advantage of the electoral right under those circumstances and circumstances as it was when that liberal law was where it could have been. So it's just a matter of organisation and motivation of voters to vote and then vote on the basis of rules that apply. As for the category of voters, you've listed a lot of categories but you haven't listed them all. There are still voters of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia who can... in the regular or 12th electoral unit and have a valid ID card, so voters of national minorities who do not have a valid ID card, so voters of national minorities resident in the Republic of Croatia who, according to the 2011 DIP position with which I disagree, have the right to vote either for the 11th or 12th constituencies and that is all in the Constitution. So this is all in the Constitution, the Constitution recognized three types in principle speaking of equal and general voting law, it recognised three types of voters: members of national minorities who can vote, for whom special voting law can be prescribed, citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the Republic of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia. So in the beginning the Constitution so defined, it probably has historical reasons why it is so. As for the restrictions on the right of access to polling stations, so-called citizens. Diasporas, and we couldn't do it alone, and that's what you helped us do in 2010. Therefore, together we have these merits or guilt, as we already consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119828	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119829	Mr. Minister, you seem to be trying to justify this nickname given to you by the Prime Minister, but if you're going to call me here a quiz then you've made a mistake and don't let us start bickering in knowledge. I don't know these numbers you pointed out or I was talking about all kinds of voters that exist so you have nothing to correct me for. What I told you, that the laws of this government made it impossible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were entitled to the Constitution, made it impossible for them to use that right. That's my basic thesis. And I've even tempered it, if you don't disable it then it's in significant difficulty. If you think it's a stimulating measure for someone to travel 3,000 or 4,000 miles to register or vote in the election, then you and I have a problem understanding. I think it's difficult, and you think it's an improvement in the solution, which is why we, Mr. Minister, don't understand. And as for the laws that allowed the vote abroad, you had to look at the results of earlier years. There are years when 106000 voters voted in elections for the Croatian elections outside the Republic of Croatia, and it does not matter at all that none of them voted you do not have the right to legally limit what the Constitution has given him. That's what we're different about. It doesn't matter these numbers at all. It's about the right and freedom of people to take advantage of it, and you don't give it to them. I've told you a few times you're not here to take it from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119830	Thank you. I will try not to justify so much comparison with this animal that the prime minister said on Wednesday. But sometimes I'm going to take advantage of that possibility just like I am now. So, it wasn't the laws of this government that made it difficult for you to ease the term that made it impossible to access the polling post, because if that were the case, four times as many people would vote under the laws of this government, but by the laws of the last government. But the constitution has made it difficult to access polling stations abroad. That's right. And this constitution did not bring this government, but was adopted in 2010 by the votes of this foreign assembly and this other foreign assembly. So that's right. And here I fully understand you, only then it is not a matter of this government but is a matter of the Croatian Parliament and of the two-thirds majority in 2010 which is a compromise between the proposal to remain as it was until then and the proposal to make it completely impossible. So it doesn't make it difficult. It makes it impossible. And I don't see what's untransparent about it. So in 2007, we went to the elections with the slogan to decide in Croatia. So it was transparent. You can't say now that we had a fig in our pocket. And now we've come to this compromise of three MPs, and for us, the story is over until it's reopened. When it opens up, we'll argue, and maybe some other stuff will be put on the table, and we'll see what happens. Or maybe you'll have a two-thirds majority so you can do it without us or once we might have a two-thirds majority, so we can do it without you. It's a matter of citizens now how they decide. That's about my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119831	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119832	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, in this replica, you've made a bit of a stand-up in relation to your basic exposure to which Mr. Mlakar has replicated to you. So it's not true how you said that HDZ liberal law was due to the fact that in 2011, you said 5,000. No, but 21,000 went out in the 11th constituency, and then this law, which established the register and the necessary activation of voters, allowed 15 or 16000 voters in the 11th constituency. The fact is that in the 11th election unit in 2000, 2003, over 60,000 voters appeared in the 11th constituency. Only then was it an unfixed quota, so then the Parliament had 5, 6 or 7 parliamentary representatives from the 11th constituency. This was not clearly the case now, but it is undeniable that the constitution has complicated because, for example, there are only four places in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote. But your law has made it very difficult for these people, as Mr. Mlakar said, to make it difficult for them to approach the polling post. Therefore, 21000 Croatian citizens voting in 11 constituencies came out in 2011 before your law, with the amendment of the 2010 Constitution. If someone else voted in the emigration that year, because they registered, and has a ID card in the Republic of Croatia, they voted in the electoral unit where their place of residence is in Croatia. And he doesn't count on those 21,000 Croatian citizens who voted for the 11th electoral unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119833	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119834	After a brief consultation, I have to correct my number of 5,000. It is your number 21, but it is undeniable and the number that in 2015 voted for the President of the Republic of 37 in the embassies when we reject people who have residence in Croatia it is still more than in 2011 under this liberal law. So it's... No, when he was the most liberal [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, not me. [[You don't like to yell when you talk. You've intervened before when the minister threw it to you. Don't you go to him now.]] So these are constructive discussions with numbers where I like to pollemize. That's right. So, while it was a liberal constitution with a liberal law, it was 100,000. Then came the restrictive constitution with the liberal law, it was 21. And then came the restrictive constitution with the restrictive law of 26. Is that all right now, exactly? Okay. And now there will come a restrictive constitution with less restrictive law and there will be as many, and there will be three MPs. Now we've explained everything to the simple factors, so now there's no dilemma. But it's good for you and I to convince you that we know what we're talking about. That's already one big breakthrough. As for the vote, therefore, I do not doubt every Croatian citizen who comes to the polling post has Croatian citizenship, is over 18 years old and has a residence where he has come to vote or has registered in a prescribed manner that votes elsewhere will be able to vote. And that's what's most important. And this one administrative step that has arisen as a consequence of mistrust in the voter lists is still something that will remain for at least this election cycle for the reasons I said at the beginning, which is that no state body of foreign states has the obligation in the Republic of Croatia to report that its citizen died. And the fact is that we in the voters' register now still have people who have passed away, but they're not in the voters' list because of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119835	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119836	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, I've been thinking about numbers, but I'm not going after you, Mr. Minister and Mr. Bacic. But you said in the beginning that in fact 42 740 Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia exercise their right to vote, and if we are now talking about these last elections, it is only 5% of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, which is actually a shame for all of us, and especially for this government. You compared this to 2011, you said 21 thousand, that is, this restrictive constitution and the restrictive law of 2015 in the presidential election of 37,000. But what you're forgetting, I don't know whether you're deliberately forgetting it or not to talk about it, is that in the meantime, some say 80, 90 to 100 thousand Croats. So that number of voters abroad is growing every day because Croats are mass evicting. And you didn't take care of that. That's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119837	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119838	Two are the information I at least informed myself of before the debate in Parliament. One number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are resident in the Republic of Croatia who reported their residence abroad. So they're on temporary duty. There's 90 grand of them in total. So not in the last year but in total. So someone's been around for more time. As for the number of people who emigrate, we have data from the DZS that monitors the data from the MUP, but it turns out that the largest number of people have moved to Serbia and BiH, which I believe is not true, is more about this difference between 300 thousand and 700, which, in the meantime, has been transferred from the residence records in Croatia to unoccupied records in Croatia. And this 100 thousand data is sometimes based on data that other countries are talking about the number of Croatian citizens who have applied, and it forgets that a large number of Croats from BiH who belong to Croatian citizens have applied and emigrated from part of BiH where Croats live in third countries, and it is also attributed to this government for emigration, which is not exactly correct and correct. But that information is for concern. For some reason, however, your party chose to be part of a campaign that we will dispute in the election campaign when it does and seek counter arguments. But here's what I've brought out. There'll be more opportunities to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119839	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119840	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, I just want to say that we will support the draft law supplementing the Law on Election Registration, with the final draft of the law. And with the hope that an electronic vote will be put in place in the next term of this administration. Since all the other issues that are open here actually fall or arise from the constitutional provision on the right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to approach the vote and we have known views on this, they are based among other things on the fact that more than 700 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but live abroad actually refuse to participate in our elections at all, speaks for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119841	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119842	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. I've read this law, and I just can't link it to the debate we've had here today. This is about a law that makes two technical amendments to the Law on the Registration of Voters. Two simple technical changes that go in favour of the voters of the Republic of Croatia. One change is the one relating to voters who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. they have a residence in the area of those municipalities and cities that because of their geographical location, because of the geographical appearance of these units of local self-government have some remote parts, it seems to me that it is Trogir where this will be applied and certainly about Zadar. It will enable voters who, for example, live in Zadar and have a residence in Zadar, and stay on one of the islands in the archipelago to vote where they find themselves, not to have to return to Zadar. I really don't see why it would be so controversial for anyone. Why would anyone be against it, anyway? The second amendment is related to the law that we passed in May of this year and concerns those voters, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia and who have had to register actively so far. Now if they have done the same thing that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have done, so if they have a valid valid ID card, they will be able to vote just like anyone who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. My esteemed HDZ colleagues, I don't know why you want to disable and make voting difficult for them. Now we're gonna talk about another thing. You've been screaming discrimination here today. Yes, you were screaming discrimination, you were talking about the law on the register of discriminatory voters. This law was passed to me in December 2012, so before brother, brother 2 years and 9 months ago. Even for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for 2 years and 9 months, it's enough to abolish a law if it's unconstitutional. And as far as I know, discrimination is one of the basic categories that are forbidden by the Croatian Constitution and which make one regulation discriminatory. Now there are several ways that the Constitutional Court can or must decide on the constitutionality of a law. The Constitutional Court may decide when it is requested by any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if anyone in the Republic asked but the fact is that at the request of a particular citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court did not decide. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of a law may also decide on official duty. Neither has it been known, but there is one situation where the Constitutional Court must decide on the constitutionality of the law, which is when a request for a constitutional assessment is made in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court by one of the authorised applicants. One of the authorised promoters is 1/5 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As far as I know, the HDZ Representatives Club has 1/5 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So if you consider this law, the Law on Election Registers is anti-constitutional, discriminatory and restricts Croatian citizens in their voting rights, then it was your duty to do something, take what you have the right to and challenge that law. Did you do it? Like I said, two years and nine months, the Constitutional Court hasn't called. As far as these changes and additions are concerned, given that they contribute to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to facilitate their approach to the polls, to enable them to make their voting rights easier, the SDP representative club will, of course, support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119843	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119844	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grbin, we at the HDZ Club didn't scream as you said it, but we're very argumentative, it's just that you don't understand that you're saying that this approach is not uniform for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in the 11th constituency. I can't understand that you can't understand that a Croatian citizen who lives in New York five months ago took out an E ID card, at the same time another Croatian citizen living in the same New York City today is taking out a passport, after who took out an E ID card two or three months ago. On the day of the election, the one who took out the E ID card needs no additional engagement but only to join the polling post, take the ballot and round up. And the one who later proved to be a Croatian citizen must have an additional procedure. And if that is not clear to you, you may need plans, but I am telling you that they are not equal because the one who has to have additional voting procedures has proved to be a Croatian citizen, thus having the right to vote after the one who has taken out and the ID card that does not need to be respected. And that's all we at the HDZ Club are saying. And I don't know how you, where you see our screaming and our misunderstanding of this bill that's usually very simple? And I support that for these Croatian citizens who have an E ID card that do not need to be additionally registered, only I think that those who have a valid passport should do so, because both on one document and on another are the same information about this person. None of the long ones have a place of residence in Croatia, so I don't see why this can't apply to those who don't have an E ID card but only a passport?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119845	He's peddling the hump's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119846	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, I'm sorry, I was really wrong when I said you were screaming, you weren't crying. But now this presentation of yours has shown a fundamental lack of recognition of the basic identification documents in the Republic of Croatia, above all, of the passports. The passport in the Republic of Croatia is not a proof of residence. There's no record of a residence in your passport. Look at the passport you'll see. I.D. has residence information, a minor difference. But when we talk about discrimination, I'm a Croatian citizen with a residence in the Republic of Croatia, I have a passport, a valid passport, and my identity card expires, can I vote on the basis of my identity card? I can't, I have to either get a valid I.D. card, make that little effort, or I have to ask for a special confirmation based on which to vote. If I am a Croatian citizen living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, I have a valid ID card to vote on, if I do not have a valid ID card, I cannot vote, but I have to register actively. The procedure under this law is finally identical for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in the Republic of Croatia and for those living outside its borders. There's no discrimination. And why are we only doing this now? Because by 6 months until June, so until 3 months ago it wasn't possible to have a ID card unless you had a residence within the Republic of Croatia, very easily. And now I'm going to end up with your citizen living in New York, so that citizen is very likely to vote in New York for President of the United States, and in order to vote there, he must always be actively registered regardless of the documents he has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119847	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119848	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I would like to join all those who express their skepticism over the well-meaning of the Proposers of these Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Registration of the Law in view of the timing and that these amendments have not been made, as these technical changes say, I do not think that anything dramatic would change but there would be no need in this part and indirect way at all to address issues related to the implementation of parliamentary elections that are likely to take place for less than two months. Also, when it comes to these two technical changes, I would refer to this second technical amendment concerning the possibility of temporary entry into the register of voters within the same city or municipality if a person is found in the area of another settlement within the same town or municipality in which he is resident and the same constituency is involved. This way of understanding the concepts also do not see too much justification or have enough understanding for it because we can view all other situations in which Croatian voters can be found. After all, it occurs to me that if someone has a place of residence, for example, in Brač and on the day of the election, they find themselves in Split at the electoral headquarters of their party that he finds it convenient. Because that day doesn't have to go to Brač and go back to Split but to hold a vote in Split, is that the applicant's intensity? No, it's fine. Yes, so why in any way, if you wanted to really speed up this process, if you wanted to improve it, then we could, the government has enough pills, let's finally and finally share the pills with these members of the election boards, so let's finally make their work more transparent on election boards, not to pick up on those papers and work over what they've been doing here in Croatia for decades. Didn't we, if you really wanted to speed up, make it more quality, make the electoral process more accurate, have neither the will nor the desire to try to think about increasing the turnout of Croatian voters, which is actually embarrassingly low from one to another election cycle, for example by introducing an electronic vote. There was no intention or intensity in this matter at all, but in previous changes, changes concerning the electoral process. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the problems and those unpleasant scenes that were actually happening at the consulate in Mostar, there is a certain possibility, of course, it is too short to open and office consular offices now. Of course they require some bilateral arrangements between the two states but it is possible to do so. Of course not a month before the election but it is possible to open consular offices at additional locations and outside the seat of the consular office. So I believe that there could be ways to increase not only the number of polling stations, but also the locations in which they are located, especially in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina only if there is little consideration and, in accordance with the Vienna Convention, an agreement on the opening of additional offices, which would not violate constitutional provisions or laws. But now it's said in this short time probably it's inexplicable but without changing the Constitution would be able to do it. So, these changes don't give good light to the applicant's intensity, they don't shed a good light on the applicant's intensity, they don't make anything qualitative except that there's a small measure, but in fact they only further agree on the structure of these options, and given the timing in which we at the HDSB club think we shouldn't support them, so we'll probably be abstentioned and voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119849	Finally, on behalf of the Proposer, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The law on the register of voters does not give or take away no voter's right. The electoral law regulated the Constitution and the Law on the Registration of Voters defines where you exercise electoral rights and to what extent you realize it if you do not realize it where you live. And prescribes procedures and deadlines to do so. We devoted most of the debate to constitutional solutions or the consequences of constitutional solutions that were made in 2010 and this is a legitimate political, legitimate political debate that is likely to continue and when they are possibly changed because it is clearly one of the topics on which there is a particular kind of dispute. In fact, I would define it this way that among the main political factors in Croatia there is no dilemma about what the role of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be but there is an explicit dilemma about what the role of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina should be in the political life of Croatia. That's how I'd pretty much define our, most of the debate on this law, which, indirectly, is all that matters. The fact is that we had and still in one part but the smaller one we have doubts about the credibility of the list of voters that was the result of the primarily unsettled residence records. We had a population list of about 3.5 million adult Croatian citizens, and in the residence records about 4 million and 100 thousand adult Croatian citizens and those 600 thousand differences were really the question of how it came about. In 2012, the Law on residence and implementation of the law was passed today by the number of 3 million and 800 thousand adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in Croatia, which means that there are also 300 thousand citizens in the register outside Croatia, and so today instead of 400 thousand in the diaspora we have 700 and instead of 4 million in Croatia, we have 3700. No one has lost their right to vote because it defines the Constitution, and the Constitution is the same for all. So 18 years and Croatian citizenship. This led to a slight increase in citizens' confidence in the voter lists even though we were in one transitional period until the provisions of the residence law came into force about how much 10% of the total number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia as regards the referendum, but this is precisely because of this transitional period. And you will remember, the Law on the residence of certain provisions should have entered into force in 2013, and then I was at a meeting of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia where it was proposed to postpone entry into force and it was postponed for another year and therefore we came to these obstacles as much as 10%, to now be in the final exhibition and to mention it. I hope that the terms used by Mr. Grbin on behalf of the SDP club will not interfere with the HDZ club in order to support these technical improvements, if you have had the intention to do so before, because you have mostly praised them for technical improvements, and we can hold a constitutional debate later. To appease Djurović, so it is not if someone from Brac has an electoral headquarters in Split, so he does not want to go to Brac because it is two local units, not two but nine, eight brač and Split, but it is nine, but if someone lives in Zadar or Trogir, and he finds himself on the island of Olib or Silba, or Drvenik, that he can vote there, because otherwise they are the same units of local self-government and that we allow them to do so. It's not some, I don't expect a large number, but there's really no reason why that technical possibility can't be corrected. You've listed election laws that were passed within a year, but I have to say that you forgot one law that wasn't passed, which was just about what shouldn't be changed within the year before the election, it's election committees. And it has not been passed, it is the Law on Elections in the European Parliament where the government has proposed to reduce the number of members of the electoral committees because of the possible savings, but we have been having a debate about this, but since no consensus has been reached about this, and this is precisely what the Venice Commission and their code of good practice have said that we should not change, this proposal has not been changed. These other technical matters in electoral laws that do not therefore concern election districts, or the borders of election units, how to recalculate voting in terms of mandates and members of election bodies, are something that is allowed to change in that code and within the year until the elections. The Law on Elections was amended in the 2nd month and made sure that it was changed by 20th and another this year, so that we make sure that what is not under the code of good practice does not change within the year. I call on MPs to support these technical amendments to the Law on Election Registration so that they can be applied to these elections. With this change, we are bringing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside, who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia with citizens who are resident in the Republic of Croatia, and given the changes to the Law on ID. So far, the criterion has been who has a valid ID card should not take any steps to vote in a place where he has a residence, and this criterion remains, in view of the amendments to the Law on the ID card. And these discussions on the number of polling stations, the way of voting, the number of diaspora mandates we leave behind for another debate on constitutional changes in another assembly when this assembly has not changed the Constitution, although there have been a number of legitimate reasons, at least as far as the referendum is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119851	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I think you have an obvious problem with the number of Croatian citizens and the number of voters and the obvious fact is that you have taken away the right of a large number of Croatian citizens to vote and disable in another way. On the other hand, I understand your political horizon that did not actually move from the Western Balkans because if you go to look at the behaviour of all developed countries and even in our environment, from Italy to France if you want, then all these countries allow their citizens around the world to go to the polls, to choose because at the time of globalisation it is these people or these, that is how you integrate into the world and get a better position. Unfortunately, you from narrow party or coalition interests simply do not want to discuss it at all, but there are more voters on the list than in Croatia. So clearly there are those when you have such a large diaspora and that is the key to the problem and it is not really a question of narrowing it down to voters and voters or simply one political philosophy and the development concept and positioning of Croatia in the world. However, it simply does not appear to come to the agenda when in discussions with the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119853	Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119854	As for the Croatian citizen, therefore, no electoral right has been taken away. And in one debate, I had already argued that according to the current law and elections made in 2015 for the President of the Republic, the second round that more citizens voted than it voted in 2011 in parliamentary elections when the law was not in force. As far as the 2010 constitutional provision is concerned, it was brought to the Assembly by over 120 votes. So that's something we brought together. Whether it can be called Western Balkan practice, etc. I really wouldn't get into that. So anyone who is a Croatian citizen, who is 18 years old, wherever he lives, on whatever continent he lives on, in whatever city on any continent, in which country he can come to the Croatian embassy or consulate and exercise his electoral right in any election. Should Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia in the Assembly be represented by three MPs, with 20 or one has nothing to do with the exercise of electoral rights, but with recalculating votes into mandates. We now have a case that with 300 votes you can become a representative. So one part of the national minority deputies was elected by several hundred votes, while in the regular election units about 15000 votes were required. Therefore, I will repeat and call, I am also taking this opportunity to invite all Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia to come up with the identity card of the Republic of Croatia and I call on all those who do not do so to be actively registered in the elections and to vote in elections for the Croatian Parliament that will be held when the President of the Republic signs them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119855	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119856	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, we at the HDZ Club really don't mind the way Mr. Peja Grbin performed in his presentation on behalf of the club. I think you should be more bothered by the president of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that comes from your party mustaches the basic constitutional and legal concepts when my citizen from New York calls him a citizen. He's a citizen of the United States, and maybe he's their citizen, and he's our citizen, and he's not our citizen. So maybe that should bother you more. And as for that election rights you said you didn't touch anyone in the polling room of those 300,000 Croatian citizens you erased from the voters' register is not true. They abolished the electoral right when they should vote in the elections for local self-government units, and you know what the reason is to especially delete them from these 10 electoral units when it comes to parliamentary elections. They are the same status only when the European elections are, when the Republic of Croatia is one electoral unit and when the election is for the president of the Republic of Croatia, when again, when all those who have the right to vote are in one constituency. Therefore, in the case of elections for the President or President of the Republic of Croatia and for European elections, you have really not made it difficult for them. But when it comes to local elections, they cannot join, and when it comes to parliamentary elections, you have thus kicked them out of these 10 electoral units to the Republic of Croatia and you have transferred them to the 11th constituency so that there is virtually no impact on the results of the vote in the Republic of Croatia, so to the ten electoral units. I think this is exactly what the facts are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119857	Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119858	So it is set exactly, and whether it fits their real status, or whether they live in the Republic of Croatia or abroad, we can discuss it. The summation figures indicate that they live abroad. And the fact that we're from that so-called. The removals, i.e. the transfer to another record, had several extraordinary local elections where we didn't have a single tip that someone wanted to vote without being able to vote. So it's not. No, no. So, if someone lives in Croatia, they come to the polls and they say you're gone. He goes to the municipality, or the Office of State Administration and says you've been deleted from the register and transferred to the diaspora. So there was no case in these 18, 19 units of local self-government that happened. So it gives me the right to think about it being gone after all. Therefore, all Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia, and the residence is established in a legal procedure. This is therefore the procedure that has judicial protection will be on the voter's list in 10 constituency units. If one is a member of a national minority exercising the right to vote, it will be allowed to transfer to the 12th constituency. And if there is no residence in the Republic of Croatia, and the citizen of the Republic of Croatia will vote in the 11th constituency. That's how the Constitution predicted, that's what the law predicted, that's how it makes sense. As for the national structures of those who have been transferred, the percentage is slightly more members of the Serb national minority than their share in the number of inhabitants, i.e. those who have been enrolled under national law, i.e. to be very precise. It's mostly about people who moved out of the Republic of Croatia long ago. So it's not like there's someone living here who's changed his residence. That's why we have that difference of 300,000, because there are another number of Croatian citizens staying abroad, but the police have not found enough grounds to conclude that it is not his residence under the provisions of the residence law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119859	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119860	Final draft law supplementing the Law on Election Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 904, the final text debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and 29 votes against, Law P.Z. passed. No. 904 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119861	We will now discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 903. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119862	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The area of safety and interoperability of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia is governed by a special regulation. The Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. In accordance with the applicable European acquis between the Interoperability Directive and the Railway Safety Directive, measures to manage and improve safety and the conditions for achieving interoperability of the EU rail system are laid down by law. The security measures shall include the harmonisation of the regulatory framework in all EU Member States, the determination of responsibilities between participants in the railway system, the development of common safety objectives, the establishment of principles for the issue of certificates and security assurances and the authorisation for the release into use of railway subsystems, the establishment of a national competent authority, the safety authority. In the Republic of Croatia, this is the Agency for the Safety of Railway Traffic and an independent railway accident research body and this is the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents. Ensuring the interoperability of the EU rail system leads to technical harmonisation to optimal levels, impeding obstacles, thus improving and developing international rail transport services in the EU with third countries, also fulfilling the conditions for the internal market for equipment and services in the railway area. The harmonised procedure for issuing authorisation for the release into use of railway subsystems, referring to infrastructure and vehicles, and the supervision of compliance with basic requirements shall contribute to the achievement of interoperability or the ability of the rail system to safely and continuously traffic trains in the EU. At the beginning and during 2014, the European Commission adopted new Directives amending the Directive on safety and interoperability with the obligations of harmonisation and transposition into national legislation and, consequently, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, which entered into force on 26 February 2015, was adopted. That law also introduces certain amendments and complements in accordance with the answers provided by the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission in the framework of e Pilots on the basis of an assessment of the implementing measures related to the transposition of the provisions of the Directives into Croatian legislation and with a view to clearer and unequivocal compliance with the provisions of the Directives. At the end of 2014, the European Commission adopted a fourth amendment to the Interoperability Directive with an obligation for Member States to bring their national legislation in line by 1 January 2016 at the latest. On the basis of this, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System and concerning the amendments to the provisions on the procedure for verification of the consent of railway subsystems with the EU and national legislation applicable in the issue of authorisation for the release of railway subsystems. This law also implements the necessary amendments on the basis of a reply to a letter of formal notice from the European Commission's Secretary-General on infringement of the legal property of the EU or the non-compliance of Croatian legislation with the provision of the Railway Safety Directive. The relevant law therefore amends the provisions on the independence of the Railway Safety Agency. Under the existing conditions of independence from infrastructure managers and carriers, a provision on independence from entities carrying out public procurement of vehicles and services including the award of contracts for public transport services to railways is also added. The provisions relating to the taking of the necessary measures for the implementation of the safety recommendations which an independent investigating body may make in its report are also amended. The law also further amends the provisions relating to workers carried out, determines their health skills through medical examinations, provisions on the unauthorized consumption of alcohol and other substances and provisions on their professional training. The draft regulation did not provide any comments on the basis of the consultation with the interested public. The draft regulation is addressed to the opinion of the authorities of the State Administration and taking into account the comments made by the Ministry of Administration by the law in question. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. And since the same obligation continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with its right to acquire EU law, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119863	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of OraH's Club of Representatives Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119864	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with an associate. Here's what I have to be honest with you about, and I really don't understand why the urgency of the procedure is, since we've been discussing this once this year, and that's the story we've been listening to today. There's no discussion about whether we're going to have two readings or not, so there's a situation that happens after a few months, we're going back to the same target, same distance. Although I have no intention of, let's say, harmonising with the European Union directive, which is, I always find it skeptical because we have experience that sometimes they've been mistranslated, so let's just say by chance there's been a mistranslation as it was about division, if I remember correctly. But here's to thinking I think it might be a good idea if you took it seriously and tried to correct it because I don't think this is a good formula that could cause a lot of problems on the ground. It is Article 91.b(2), which states: "The executive worker is obliged, at the request of the authorised worker of the infrastructure manager or railway undertaking and the railway safety inspector, to access the examination of whether he is in the body of alcohol, intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances by appropriate means or devices.". Any operator can control any operator. This formulation would make it clear that any operator, i.e. a senior worker, a worker authorised to control any other operator or infrastructure manager. I suppose it doesn't apply to that or to not thinking about it, but this formulation gives that freedom that it can be and so. Okay, you'll check it out. But I'm more interested in this second part. Article 15 of this Bill, which refers to Article 139, will be adopted by the Minister, and is now tax-listed several, by this Act no later than 5 years after the date of entry into force of this Act. Among other things, there is also a rule relating to health skills, i.e. in Article 9(7), for executive workers other than the driver, health conditions, methods and deadlines of previous periodic and exceptional health checks, shall be prescribed by a regulation adopted by the Minister with the prior opinion of the Minister of Health. What's the five-year delay for? Is there any logical reason for that? Does anyone have an explanation? And I will remind you that so far the rules under which medical examinations are carried out are mandatory medical examinations, a rule on special health conditions that must be met by railway workers who directly participate in the operation of railway traffic on the railway are known as Regulation 655 was published in the Official Journal of the SFRY '81. A year. In the meantime, all the railway administrations have adjusted these deadlines, and no one has any left, I mean these railway administrations that we're after, that is to say, trying to be like them, there's no one left for all executive workers, or for those executive workers that I'm thinking primarily of train traffickers having a year. Why is that? Perhaps because in the meantime the medical work was separated and then the medicine work needlessly in my opinion we pay these costs even though some other railway administrations have 2, 3 and 5 years prescribed deadlines. We have remained and still give 5 years of additional time. I don't know why it's like that, if it's just an unpreparedness. I'm not going to point out any other reasons, but I have to be honest with you, so I'm not expecting anything positive from that resistor with all due respect to you personally. But that you can experience them and hear all sorts of noises is one not so long ago. So among other things, the president of the administration insisted on firing people on the ground for reasons, be careful now, because they dry meat in their rooms. Can you imagine the quality of the work, which is that seriousness at these board meetings when he insists on quitting because some worker out there is drying his meat somewhere in his premises. So much for the seriousness of that administration and then what we can expect from them. And on the other hand they all famous projects, if you remember, we were hearing about... How many of those 13 magnificent ladies who run 13 or I don't know 17, 21, how many of those famous projects, do you know how many of these projects are still alive? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't put you in an awkward situation and insist on answering because it doesn't matter at all. And now we read the other day of such self-gratitude and it says for the first time in 50 years Croatia is building a railway. St. John's Line. Ivan Toad-Town. Now that's the famous bridge from nowhere to nowhere, or the road from nowhere to nowhere. The reconstruction of the track towards Bjelovar is not even planned. The railroad on this side of the disaster. The Long Village-Nova disaster track. A railroad that needs to be remounted to the famously announced Greda-Sunja-Nova mature for closing just so as not to say the human factor is being maintained. That railroad that's gone, does it make any sense to mention it? A dig of beach that's one of the most famous. On the other hand, we had a very successful company called "Pružne konstručina" which, frankly, we already have more and more on paper and that goes through the paved paths of another company with the centuries-old history of "Gredelj". So then we have as a reminder to the members of the Transport Committee how long we have sought the thematic session at which our minister would be honored to come and explain some things and answer specific questions. Just to remind you, for a year and a half, they were supposed to respond for the first time, he was present for half an hour, 40 minutes, held some monologue that was more like an English course and left us because he had an important meeting with a colleague in the government. It is the general relationship of this minister, although he is not the only one, but primarily his relationship with this Assembly but also with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to give another example that's also very, very painful about the railroads. It is a famous 4th railway package presented at the joint session of the two committees and in the materials that we have received it says that the representative of the Slovenian railways is their Minister for Transport who found that this railway package will result in the destruction of all small railway administrations and that it is actually a bargaining only large, read France and Germany. It's some kind of two interesting areas. They're being so kind as not to tell me how they're going to share the rest, and our minister's position has failed to hear it. Not only have we not been able to hear it, it's less painful, but they haven't been able to hear it either, and it's the other ministers in Europe. He is simply asked whether we are not interested in it, whether we have already raised our hands from our railways, our operators, does he think that unlike Slovenian colleagues, we are a large railway company, or a railway company, that our operators and infrastructure managers who are still just one of them have not yet been able to sell out but is working on it, the base has done, or is it something that we ordinary mortals are unable to understand? I have to be honest and say that by the logic of things we should support this bill because it is harmonizing with EU rules. And given this, everything I've said, it just doesn't make sense. There's no point in starting with that first detail that I've been saying that it's making some kind of a misunderstanding to the part where it takes an extra five-year-old to pass one act, one rule that's been in effect since '81. last published in the Official Journal of the SFRY. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119865	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119866	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, when it comes to amendments and additions to this law relating specifically to health checks and the health skills of the workers I did not know, it is a good thing that the colleague said that there is no Regulation in the railways on health skills that would be made up of time at all since the existence of the Croatian State. But what really falls into the eyes is that the deadlines for the adoption of the rules are prescribed for a period of no later than 5 years from the date of entry into force of this law. It's almost so amazing the fact that he's talking actually I don't even know what he's talking about, he's probably talking about the state of the system at all. Because I have not yet seen that the legislator has allowed himself such width and space to leave a five-year deadline that he will pass the rules. It shall be left for a few months to a year if there are more complex rules, and on putting a deadline of 5 years for a law that is likely to change and supplement at least 2 or 3 times over the next 5 years shows actually a considerable unseriousness of the motionor. When it comes to health skills usually in jobs that require additional health skills, I know something about an army where I worked where only members of special forces should be given systematic medical examinations every year. All others, and railway workers by no standard but perhaps the engineer requires no special psychophysical abilities, quality or characteristics. Certainly greater manual skill and greater exposure to psychophysical efforts than the good part of railway workers have, for example, workers in supermarkets who work 7 days a week in shift work and do not have anywhere near these conditions of systematic examinations, let alone a year. So this is nonsense in itself that it can't be bigger. This nonsense may have made sense at the time of the communist state when there was a Health House Railwayman, which was part of the railway system, and within the framework of it in fact, and they would say all about the same cost of maintaining one quality of health and investing, let's say, in some kind of preventive examinations, but in today, the Republic of Croatia and in this segment simply have to comply fully with those criteria and those criteria that apply to all others, and especially the most developed European countries. If you do not know what the rules in these countries look like, most of these regulations are available on websites, so you can read them and then within 3 months, adopt regulations that will be more or less enforceable then, and they will surely require for most jobs a possible medical physical examination in periods of 2 to 5 years, for most employees and by 5 years, and in a year, it could possibly make sense for engineers, and otherwise the parameters of health and disease have completely changed in all their elements, from pressure to vision, to the state of the engine system, so that these criteria that were valid in these former rules certainly have nothing to do with today's situation. Otherwise, this way of proposing is actually a picture and an opportunity of a really difficult condition that exists in the Croatian railway. In some ways the Croatian railways and the state of Croatia's railways were a picture and opportunity of the more vulnerable part and the weaker part of Croatian society, and so are others. Whether this will change in the time to come, it can certainly only be changed with responsible and professional people who will be responsible and professionally doing their job taking into account national interests because the railway is a national interest, but taking into account both the time and the space in which we exist today as the Republic of Croatia and actually seek a compromise between the two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119867	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119868	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. We are talking about the law, amendments and additions of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System and we have objections to this urgent procedure, but what we can do is regulate the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System in the Republic of Croatia, which entered into force on 1 July 2013. After the entry into force of the law in which the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community have been introduced into the rail regulation system, we have simply discussed this law at the beginning of 2015 and obviously not well because after 8 months we are going back to correction. Everything we know today we knew at the beginning of the year when we discussed the law. The law was full of objections if we remember, however, the government remained in its positions and now changes the same after a warning from the European Union. On 19.6.2015, the Republic of Croatia received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission on the non-compliance of Croatian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2004/49/EC on the safety of railways of the Community, i.e. failure to comply with obligations under Article 16(1) and Article 25(2). Directive 2004/49/EC. In accordance with the above, this law implements the necessary amendments to the provisions of the Safety and Interoperability Act of the Railway System. In accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, provisions relating to the technical examination of a vehicle not provided for by European legislation are deleted. In accordance with the amendments to the directly applicable regulations of the European Union, provisions relating to the establishment of the health capabilities of railway workers are amended, the provisions on health checks and on the unauthorised consumption of alcohol and other substances are added, and are amended and prescribed that the corresponding rules are adopted by the Minister responsible for Transport with the previous opinions of the Minister of Health. We've heard all about it, and we've had it in that previous law, we have a five-year deadline so that the rule can be met by the Prime Minister after this next government and there's still one or two next ministers. I don't think that's good or stimulating, but obviously, the ministry has assessed it that way and it's allowed. The Republic of Croatia has an obligation to comply with its legislation by 1 January 2016 at the latest, and this is probably why we are discussing the urgent procedure before the Croatian Parliament is dissolved. What do you say to this practice? I think nothing, because the method of trying and making mistakes has worked since the start of this government's mandate and it has welcomed the end itself. Just a few amendments to the same laws are the practice of these governments. This law also contains a series of technical obligations, and we must probably accept them. However, I will take the opportunity to talk again at the end of the term of office about the situation in the Croatian Railways, because the end of the mandate and some small summary I think it is necessary in relation to what has been announced and what has happened. Are the citizens satisfied with Croatian railways? Did the minister with his teams manage to make Croatian railways an effective, rational enterprise that could be the engine of the development of the Republic of Croatia in the next period. I think in this House we can all agree that it isn't. What have we witnessed in the past four years? We've heard a lot of stories. Croatian railways will be important, most important, we will arrange them, we will build a new line Botovo – Zagreb – Rijeka, we will modernise the railway, the railways will be built, parts of the railways will be built, etc. etc. When we talk about railways, we need to keep in mind the redistribution of 60 limes from the price of gasoline, numerous days of guarantees to Croatian railways, the great possibility of absorbing EU funds that strongly favour rail transport, their own revenues and budget assistance as well as the overall inherited state. In this House over the past 3 years, there has been a lack of debate on the subject of Croatian Railways. However, we need to determine that these discussions failed to encourage the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to systematically start changing relations within this segment of transport in the Republic of Croatia. We have been witnessing three years of changes that have not made Croatian railways better and more profitable, more secure in the way of transport in the Republic of Croatia. After four years, Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, head of the railway ministry, has several thousand workers left or will soon be out of work. Two attempts to privatise HZ companies failed, the number of passengers decreased by 50%, the transport of cargo by a quarter, and the biggest government investment project for this year of nearly 200m euros for the reconstruction of the railway Long Village – Križevci. Since the loss of 85 million kuna, the consolidated system has reached SDP's mandate, today has accumulated losses which unfortunately are only being resolved accountingly. In the last year of Hajdashev's mandate, the railways are raising the World Bank's billion-dollar loan to continue restructuring, which so far consisted of giving out cancellations, and often by principle or prescription, who is being resented by those Croatian railways. With his arrival in the ministerial chair, the minister divided the holding of HZ into three mega-enterprises and that of Travel Transport, CARGO and Infrastructure, each of which has several daughters. After a few years, however, it is quite clear that the separation of Croatian railways that rely on each other in the nature of business has simply failed, and since then, I would have dared to say that to the rodent. But most of the passengers fell off simply because the timetables were not harmonised, so workers, students, or students couldn’t find a excess train that would take them or drive them to work, school, or college. Most of the lines have been cut off and I always say that comes down to it for savings. There were situations where even the minister wondered which lines were lifted. He used to answer that he just didn't care about it. However, by cutting the line, some parts were completely cut off so that, for example, Split lost the night train to Zagreb and so Dalmatia literally lost its night and train connection to Europe. But in the country, I say absurd, and it's possible that certain railways are being restored, and then the passenger lines are being lifted. For example, the Ploče railway – Metkovic, in whose reconstruction 30 million kunas were invested and passenger transport was abolished. They argued from the passenger that the railway was being renewed primarily for freight traffic, not passenger traffic, and that it was going from the port of Ploče to Sarajevo. But that's what I'm saying, the centuries-old line has been lifted, and where there are no more passenger trains, the buses are now driving even though the railways are getting as much as half a billion kuna from the state to subsidize passenger transport. But the money I say ends up in pockets and private autocars. We also have other examples that are constantly being announced. Let's say the story of the construction or modernisation of the Gradec railway – Sveti Ivan Žabno length 12.2 km. This is announced, it will be settled by 2017. At the same time, however, the line is abolished as a passenger section. In two years, 154 engineers have left the system, and recently, I say we read that due to the lack of engineers, the lines have begun to cancel. There were also threats of strikes before the season in the fifth month, so the court banned it, etc. etc. For most days, lines between Split and Zagreb, Sisak and Zagreb fell apart, etc. Buses drove more instead of trains. The story of spring buildings is a special failure of this government, and if it continues this way by 2020, it is possible that 1900 km will be unsustained railways. And that's what I'm saying, I'm talking about layoffs in railway buildings, a construction company that owns a hundred percent of the infrastructure that's just passing through, and that painful layoff of workers, which is why the employees have been protesting here recently in Mark's square. In all possible ways, it was difficult, I say, to say the bad state of rail transport. The data are devastating compared to 2014/2013. for which we have full data, because, for example, in 2014 HH passenger transport transported 22 million passengers, compared to 2012 when there were 27 million almost 5 million passengers. HŽ CARGO transported 2014. 9 million tonnes, 2012 was 1,1400 million tonnes. It's a devastating investment in railway infrastructure. HH Infrastructure planned 2.69 billion kuna investments, so it was a rebalance of the plan due to delays and not withdrawing EU money. So it's made for a billion and 160 million kuna, and it's made for a little less than 75%. We are even late for that project, Okucani-Novska, which was to be completed by the end of 2014. On the VC corridor, the implementation of the reduced investment plan is below 50%, we're talking about records. After three years of SDP authorities management and problem on the Croatian railways seems the same if not worse than it was a few years ago. Money is spent and the effect and results are weaker. We are in a position to interpret as a great success several tens of kilometers of built and decorated railways, some beginnings of new shares and improvisation on the construction of the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway. The head of the commission for the construction of the stock as well as the head of the Railways Committee is Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. We don't know what's going on with that committee, we don't even know how many times it's been ambushed, I think it's been three or four times. The decisions of this committee were the removal of the trail of the lowline track, the rails of full profile and the proposal for so-called so-called. Mountain route i.e. One improvisation a little single-colossal, a little bi-colossal, a little electrified, a little not. Construction of HBOR-funded passenger trains with unpopular interest, although it was more suggested by the EU to call an international tender and the possibility of obtaining up to 50% of the grants. The sale of HZ Cargo to a Romanian investor who has failed infamously. I say, this is what the Commission for Railways and Government simply directly endangers, by their inaction, the geographical location of the Republic of Croatia in view of Luka Rijeka and the proximity of Central Europe. What will be the position of that port? What will happen with regard to some new relations, especially Greece, Kopar and what we want to achieve through this railway system? It's just that after a few years now, I think it's not clear to anyone. Every year, the government gives guarantees to Croatian railways, these relations reach billions and have simply become part of that huge total debt that goes up to 300 billion kuna. Finally, I will conclude that instead of the interoperability of Croatian railways, we have received under the government of the SDP operated by the inoperable Croatian railways which are increasingly becoming a combination of Croatian railways – bus, and increasingly less efficient and fast transport by railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119869	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119870	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned a lot, and among other things, you mentioned how they announced the construction of many railways and tracks. But I also need to remind you of some stations. When the reconstruction of Sisak Station began in this assembly I was saying that exactly what we have today would happen, if you go deeper than a squire to the ground running to you by the Romans from below. The whole town is on Roman digs. That's when I was told to talk. I mean, literally, I'm told in the media that I'm talking. Now we've had two years of the station destroyed, destroyed, no one anywhere, threatened the safety of passengers when they enter without saying that it's impossible for some to enter. But then I whispered, and now we see what we have. You mentioned a project called Long Village-Krysevci, how did this project fail? So as far as I hear the contest is done, completed, and interestingly, don't accidentally think about some kind of malfeasance or someone's honesty, but the price difference is in divergence. And interestingly long before the contest was even called, that is, while the last one that was annulled was already talking about knowing who would win the next competition. And this very bidder is cheaper at odds than the next one. But don't think I'm insinuating someone's dishonesty. And what I've already said many times when you have a new car you have to maintain it. Let's say a remont of certain stripes is made, but that doesn't mean you don't have to keep them going. And regular maintenance, we're out. So who's in the interest? In whose interest did we do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119871	Time. Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119872	Thank you very much. I don't know what he's like in Sisak, but maybe we should get to Rijeka. I don't think there's even the first letters of those that say the Rijeka Railway Station, the big river, but I think the first two are missing. That's what I'm saying and we've been testifying to for the past four years. A lot has been announced, I made it clear, unfortunately we have to conclude that we failed after four years, the money went, we can't say that they didn't go through guarantees, through the detachments from those 60 limes that have been re-scheduled. And what we saw as a loss was through some reports of agencies that we previously discussed for railways, we could see on the pages of the Croatian railway system itself, infrastructure and traffic as they solve it. It is purely accounting management in which you may be ashamed of what I keep saying that the original incomes, say HZ infrastructure, reach only 15 or 20% of the total income, up to 80% comes from all other sides and the most from the state budget. As far as investment is concerned, what was inherited, the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway, everything else is either at the beginning, and I say the stock to Novska simply cannot end. What we have witnessed may be the biggest project of Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo it is a constant change of plan, a constant change of some interest, a constant change in the desire of strong announcements that it will work at the beginning of the mandate for the Chinese, that thousands and thousands of foreign workers will come here to make it at some point some mountain valley track and move the entire route, etc. And we have a result that unfortunately we have, a constant story and no realisation, and then this story of the Long Selo-Krysevci stock, and how the German-Spanish consortium is somehow going to get at the end of that railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119873	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119874	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When you've already listed the pearls that were happening in the HZ system, I don't think you should forget about buying colossiums on Žitnjak, the Dioki's colossals on Žitnjak which, at the time of the very difficult situation in HZ Cargo, would be forced to buy and it seems to me somewhere over ten million kunas of that track. Which is fate, what's done with it, how long it really took HZ Cargo it's a story for itself. And the second part that should also be singled out is a decision that was taken 2 years ago in the Parliament when 40 lilies of the fee paid when buying fuel were rerouted to the Croatian railways for the sole reason that a new investment cycle would happen in HZ. So not that this cycle did not occur, but those funds that were exclusively intended for the construction of capital transport infrastructure were invested to cover and lose the system itself and the fact is that 5.6 years ago from the state budget was over 2.5 billion kuna sent to the Croatian Railways system. Now this government has reduced it, but that's why she gave them new sources, I said of these 40 limes. On the other hand, daily or monthly borrowing in order to allow for the coordination of salaries and functioning of the system itself. So to conclude, simply throughout this system HZ Infrastructure was neither restructured as planned nor investments were made, nor is the whole system... or wherever and where worse than it was four years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119875	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119876	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, how did the purchase of the DiOKI track record end? She ended up with the fact that the DEOKI ended up in bankruptcy. It means that we can say freely after that colossal purchase operation and then the entry of the one if we remember a Turkish investor in DIOKI who was given state guarantees... All that ends up in bankruptcy, people get fired. We have DIOKI's what we have on the island of Krk. We're talking about 40 lips how it ended? So we go build, we go develop railroads, we take highways, we take and we go parallel to the process of monetization, and we count on the process to happen. They take consultants, pay large sums to consultants, but for 3.5 years we've been listening to the story of monetization and then the minister comes to the government's session and in 17 seconds we give up this monetization, in 17 seconds after 3.5 years of the story, spent money in 17 seconds we conclude that we're a failure and we're going to go to plan B. And today we're listening to all kinds of stories, these plans, these plans, and it happens to us that we didn't get anything from an investment cycle but a constant debate in this House of Credits that we're taking either with the World Bank or with some other banks. Everyone's ready to say yes because in the end, the state is a guarantee again, and all of this ends well in our greatest public debt ever, which at the speed of light comes to nearly 300 billion kuna. It's simply the easiest way to manage such systems without talking about a number of management shifts, that it just couldn't have been within the system at all that there was one constant team that could do something in 4 years. But we'll see in the end, which eventually will remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119877	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119878	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with co-worker, co-worker and co-worker, this legislative proposal further harmonizes as also stressed by the Deputy Minister of Law of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The SDP club supports its adoption. On 19 June 2015, the Republic of Croatia received a letter of formal notice on the non-compliance of Croatian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2004/49/EC on the security of the railways of the Community, i.e. failure to comply with obligations under Article 16(1) and Article 25(2) of that Directive. This law shall bring into line with the provisions of Commission Directive 2014/106 of 5 December 2014 amending Annexes 5 and 6 to Directive 2008/57. The compliance obligation shall be no later than 1 January 2016. The law also implements the necessary amendments to the provisions of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System under the contract which the Republic of Croatia referred to the European Commission for a letter of notification concerning the non-compliance of Croatian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2004/49 on the safety of railways of the Community. The law also amends provisions relating to the conditions and verification of health skills and professional training of executive workers in accordance with the amendments to European legislation. The new Commission Regulation 2015/995 relating to technical specifications for the interoperability of subsystems, developments and traffic management of the rail system in the EU. The law certainly increases the safety of rail transport. The main changes relate to the following: in accordance with Directive 2004/49/EC, the law stipulates that the law does not, inter alia, apply to the private-owned railway infrastructure exclusively used by its owner for its own carriage of goods and vehicles exclusively used on such infrastructure, and to drivers operating those vehicles. Article 4cc is further prescribed that the exemption from the application of safety requirements or laws in accordance with the provisions of that Directive applies only to industrial colossions and colossions in seaports, inland ports and inland water terminals meeting those conditions. Article 8 is amended in accordance with the Republic of Croatia’s response to the European Commission’s notification of 18 June 2015. Infringement number 2015/2039 of the non-compliance of Croatian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2004/49. In accordance with the provisions of Article 16(1) of the Directive, the conditions on the independence of the Agency and of the entities carrying out the public procurement of vehicles and services including the award of public transport contracts to railway passengers are added. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The laws in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission provisions relating to a technical examination of a vehicle which is not provided for by European legislation. The tests of vehicles so far carried out under the technical examination shall include checks of compliance with the basic compatibility and integration requirements prescribed by the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Laws for technical reasons. The obligation to install an automatic train protection device with an auxiliary control signal shall be deleted for reasons of inability to connect that signal with the activity of the electrical circuit of the automatic train protection railway device, and means of adopting the rules adopted by the minister with the prior opinion of the relevant resolution ministers shall be determined. Thus, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health shall adopt a regulation laying down the conditions of health skills, as well as the arrangements and deadlines for previous periodic and extraordinary checks on health skills, executive workers other than machine-man. For the driver, it is prescribed by the Regulation governing the training of the driver. The new Article 91a provides that health institutions carrying out health checks by executive workers shall be authorised by the Ministry of Health. There is also a way to declare a complaint on the assessment of health skills. A new Article 91.b shall be laid down by the obligation and the provision of a regulation relating to the verification of the presence of an organism of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances. It is also determined that, in addition to the previous opinion of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Education shall adopt a regulation laying down a basic training programme, the frequency of carrying out expert examinations, the content of the beliefs on the expert examination, the conditions to be met by legal and natural persons conducting the professional training and the conduct of the examinations of executive workers. It is prescribed that the Agency and other competent authorities shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the safety recommendations of the investigating authority are duly taken into account and that, where appropriate, they are handled in accordance with them. In addition to the measures that the Agency and other competent authorities must take on their own in that obligation, it is understood that the tasks to be completed by the persons are to be referred to by the railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and other relevant bodies in order to ensure that the safety recommendations issued by the... body are duly taken into account and to act in accordance with these recommendations. The law also prescribes a way of authorising persons to maintain the internal order of the railway system. And now that the debate has taken place in the direction of the Croatian Railways, one thing should be particularly stressed. We, in approach negotiations, have in some way wiped ourselves out of the most important transport corridors written in so-called. The TNT document, so that out of the 9 European corridors through the Republic of Croatia, only one that connects the Hungarian border with Rijeka with the branch connecting Zagreb with Ljubljana. In this way Luka Rijeka is also placed in an inferior position. These are serious things that have been neglected during the negotiations, and I think that the most energy should now be spent in this direction to fit individual corridors into the network of European corridors, in particular the Orient East... which connects northern German ports with Sofia further east. So these are things that are a prerequisite for the development of Croatian railways, and everything else seems to me to be a political stick in something that has been the problem of Croatian railways for years. Finally, it should only be noted that the SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119879	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119880	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 903, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 106 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 8 votes against P.Z.E. law passed. No. In the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 903.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119881	We will now reunite the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments of the Doha Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 892. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received reports at the session. As follows: - Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Forecasts (ECMF) on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the ECMF on the establishment of a European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Forecasts and its Related Conditions, the Convention establishing a European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time with the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Prognosis of Time, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, the P.Z. No. 890. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This proposal was also discussed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Environment and Nature Minister Michael Zmajlovic will explain both proposals. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119882	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. We have before us a draft bill to confirm the amendment of the Doha Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The second binding period of the Kyoto Protocol, which began on 1 January 2013, is set out in the Doha amendment, ending on 31 December 2020. During this period, the EU committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to base 1990. Croatia will fulfil the obligation within the planned deadline and implement a number of projects aimed at fostering sustainable development. All greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia have been reduced by 17.3% compared to 1990 and it is important to stress that there has been a separation of economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. This has led Croatia to meet and exceed the Kyoto Protocol target for the period 2008-2012. Emission reductions shall be carried out through the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. A plan for the use of financial resources derived from the sale of mission units through auctions in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 to 2016, which provides for the financing of energy efficiency projects and renewable energy sources, so all projects that should ultimately contribute to the reduction of emissions. This year, the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection and the Environment Fund provided 600 million kuna for energy efficiency and environmental protection projects. This year, citizens were destined for a number of energy reconstruction programmes for which they could obtain grants from state-run incentives, it is the reconstruction of family houses, the reconstruction of multi--state buildings, the co-financing of energy efficient household appliances, co-financing of purchases of electric and hybrid vehicles and the accompanying economy of the especially construction sector created preconditions for new green jobs and already, in this term alone, more than 11 thousand were launched by the government. So through these projects that we directly influence the reduction of total energy consumption on the one hand, the increase in quality of housing on the other hand, and on the third hand, each kuna generated jobs, i.e. for the construction sector only this year, it represents through these projects over a billion and a half, so a billion and 500 million kuna investments. The Ministry of Environment and Nature shall carry out a number of activities related to low-carbon development as a premise for the transition to the so-called so-called area. a low-carbon economy and society in a broad sense. The draft low-carbon development strategy is under way until 2030 as a roof, economic, development and environmental strategy. The first national action plan for green public procurement was also developed for 2015 to 2017 with a view until 2020 with the aim of including one of or some of the criteria of green public procurement by 2020 50% of public procurement procedures in Croatia. By confirming the amendments to the Doha, the Republic of Croatia has joined other countries which have confirmed this amendment and, given the nature of the procedure by confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented, the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure is proposed. The second item is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts. The objective of the establishment is to meet the need for reliable medium-term weather forecasts in order to effectively plan human activities and prevent or reduce the adverse effects of natural disasters. Croatia is a member of the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts and cooperation with the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts is carried out through the State Hydrometeorological Institute and has been assessed as very important for Croatia. The signing of the Agreement on the Accession of the Convention and the establishment of the European Centre and its related conditions in 2011 has been initiated by a procedure for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership. In order for the Republic of Croatia to become a full member, it is necessary to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the Convention. Full membership in the European Centre will end Croatia's integration with all relevant European meteorological organisations, and this proposal is proposed to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119883	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119884	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support both laws, both the Law on the European Centre for Medium-term Weathers and the Act on Confirming Amendments to the Doha Kyoto Protocol, along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change with the Final Proposal for a Law. First of all, a few words about the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts of Time, whose associated member, as the minister said in 1995, became the Republic of Croatia and since then the products of the centre have been used to improve the weather forecast for Croatia. However, unlike the associated full membership that will take place after the Republic of Croatia has ratified this agreement. It will ensure Croatia's right to access and use the main computer system that is most powerful compared to the computer systems of all other meteorological institutions in the world. This will significantly improve the production of different weather forecasts and warnings for Croatia and allow for a greater range and quality of research in meteorology including climate science, medium-term weather forecasts, seasonal forecasts and climate change. All this is important for the Republic of Croatia because we care about the early warning of the weather disasters that the centre produces. Namely, the above will strengthen our meteorological service as already said, the State Hydrometeorological Institute itself in preparation for warnings for a specific territory of Croatia. This ultimately protects the lives and assets of Croatian citizens, so it is clear that this accession to full membership should be supported, regardless of what is clear that this will significantly require annual membership fees and all that Croatia is obliged to pay in order for this Central European Weather Centre to function. As for the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Doha Kyoto Protocol should therefore be said to be a protection, that climate change is a dominant problem for the environment in the 21st century. At the global level, negotiations are being conducted towards establishing the necessary common efforts to keep global warming within the 2 degree limit of Celsius compared to... The period considered to be the first half of the 19th century in 1750 or the worst case scenario, in that sense, when we talk about the Kyoto Protocol, we mean three periods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first period is until 2012, the second period is until 2020, and this change from Doha and the third period is between 2020 and 2050. The first period, which ended from 31.12.2012, meant for Croatia a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by about 5% compared to the base 1990s and the Republic of Croatia, the goal defined by the Kyoto Protocol, indeed met for the period 2008 to 2012 when Croatia and became a member of the Kyoto Protocol. The second period to which this law applies also implies that the Republic of Croatia must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, i.e. at 80% of the 1990 emissions level. It is important to stress that the Republic of Croatia, as a member of the European Union and before the Doha meeting itself, has defined, within the framework of the Smart, Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Strategy, the European Union, as well as the third energy package, where it wants to be in 2020 and defined as one of the main objectives of meeting the climate-energy targets, 20-20-20, as I said by 20% compared to 1990, increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia has adopted a series of strategic and implementing regulations and programmes which have prescribed public sector behaviour, but also economies in accepting the objectives resulting from this European Union document, in the context of its accession to full membership of the European Union and by harmonising its legislation with the acquis. As for renewable energy sources that must be participated in direct... 20%, we believe that this Government of the Republic of Croatia has failed or shown insufficient focus on encouraging renewable energy sources. In fact, we at the HDZ Club during that extraordinary session 10 days ago when we adopted the Law on Renewable Sources of Energy cited a series of reasons and arguments why we hold that Croatia did not properly approach and was consistent with the construction of renewable energy sources which would then clearly contribute to this goal that the Republic of Croatia set itself as a member of the European Union, which is that by 2020 the share of renewable energy is 20%. In fact, at the very beginning of the work and mandate of the government in the state budget itself, funds were provided for the establishment of the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources, which was to be created by the agency under the law that was envisaged in the government's term of office in the first year of office, so back in 2012. Neither the law has been passed, nor the agency has therefore functioned, and this law was subsequently extended to be adopted in 2013 so it is not, so 2014 is not that year either. Here he was just brought to an extraordinary cabinet session at the very end of his term. Not only has he not been able to win any success in this mandate, but it is about what the law was understated because no financial model has been established to encourage the achievement of this national target for 20% of energy to come from renewable energy sources by 2020. Also, on our question to explain whether the necessary funds for co-financing of electricity produced, which is more expensive than market energy and comes from renewable energy sources, will be financed by the collection of electricity for all Croatian citizens and about 10 June, as predicted by HERA, which claims in its report that this objective we set with this law is foreseen, by paying the difference in the price between the energy that is on the market and the one that comes from renewable energy sources. It means that in the next period the Republic of Croatia, in order to reach those objectives prescribed by law, should increase the price of electricity by about 10 drops per kilowatt, which is around 20% compared to the existing electricity price. When we talk about this third Kyoto or postkyotic period related to the period from 2020 to 2050, Croatia and Europe have also set very demanding targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030, 60% by 2040 and 80% by 2050. In July of this year, five months after the adoption of the Energy Union Strategy, the European Commission presented a legislative proposal to amend the system of emissions trading within the European Union in accordance with the 2030 climate and energy policy framework agreed by the European Union leaders in October 2014. This is the first step towards achieving the European Union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in the context of its contribution to the new global climate agreement to be concluded in Paris at the end of this year. Of course, it should be accepted and supported, since I said that one of the biggest challenges of environmental protection is climate change, however, we expected that when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is talking about achieving these objectives, it will be a strategy or framework for implementing this climate-energy package by 2030. The government, however, has not yet seen the light of day in the process, and it would be important for the document to say what the goals set so high will mean for the Croatian economy. The implementation of this goal brings financial benefits to the Croatian economy to the extent that new financial burdens for the industrial sector are taking place. What measures is Croatia heading towards a low-carbon economy? A moment ago, Mr. Minister mentioned that Croatia is working on a low-carbon strategy until 2030 with a view until 2050 which is still under construction. I believe that both of these documents should have already been adopted at the level of the Croatian government, that they should have been published to the Croatian public and that when we accept certain objectives that the climate and European package imposes on us that we know what its repercusions are in the economy of the Republic of Croatia and what this will mean for employment, for the existing industry in Croatia, whether it will contribute and how we will be able to obtain certain subsidies and encourage our industrial plants to adapt to this very big challenge. In this sense, we have repeatedly stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ignored this approach that talks about fostering a low carbon economy, and we have pointed to a number of problems that will cause the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, where the government is turning to fossil fuels again. And I can say that in the Ministry of Economy's portfolio, it was practically the main fundamental commitment in this entire term, which ended as it ended in an infamous manner. Because as you yourself know, nearly 5 months ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was to sign a contract with concessionaires who were granted a license in January of this year on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. As you know, this has not happened and will not happen because of many problems and thus the fundamental goal that went towards Croatia's energy independence, which should have relied on hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, has practically not been realised. And what we should have done as an EU Member State, which is to pay more attention to the development of renewable energy sources. We didn't do it because we were just beginning to think about it, I say at the Parliament's session when we passed that law, and that was at the end of this year. And regardless of all our remarks, since it is very important documents that the Republic of Croatia needs and must ratify as a member of the Kyoto Protocol, it is clear that the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119885	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119886	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. When it comes to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts of Time, we have no doubt that it is a document that we support. Secondly, when it comes to the Doha amendments to the Kyoto agreement, I would then ask the legislator who is sending an emergency procedure how many EU Member States have so far signed the Doha amendments to the Kyoto Agreement. Not one. So, the Republic of Croatia is running ahead of ore signing, ratifying these amendments in the national parliament and becoming the first EU member state to sign these amendments. However, the proposer states that this will not require any costs for the state budget either, likely thinking that it will not require any costs for the economy either. So far with today, these Doha amendments to the Kyoto Agreement have signed a total of 44 countries of the world of which no EU member states have signed. From the scope of Europe, these amendments have been signed by Norway and Switzerland, which have received more favourable conditions, more favourable conditions in these amendments than in the EU Member States28. And this reference in a haste when no EU member states have signed amendments suggest actually this kind of a voluntary approach, about here are all some international contracts, everyone can go by emergency procedure, nothing costs us anything, we just sign it, we accept it, we happily ratify it, and in the years that come we will ask how much it will cost us. There are no real projections or strategic documents about how and how the Croatian economy will adapt to the obligations it is taking, and the current course of events shows that the Croatian economy does not actually have specific resources, but that in fact it all comes down to one side is something, is it whether if we get something through that trade is actually surpluses. On the other hand, however, there is a time when we will objectively have to transfer the burden of these commitments to the Croatian economy. What we support from the reference 1990s, of course, is the deindustrialisation of the Republic of Croatia. If we see it coming in favor of us and the fact that most of our serious, heavy industries are gone, then that way, we actually have car destruction in some way reducing the emissions of harmful gases, or greenhouse gases, and we're going to find some kind of answer here, and here we're going to sell surpluses and make some money. So this was more of a... Level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think that, in the case of the DOHA amendments to the Kyoto Agreement, Croatia had no reason to send it to an emergency procedure, given that no one in the EU has, or ratified those amendments in the national parliament, or to talk about how this has no effect on the state budget, it has actually been necessary to see and really assess what the strategy for the Republic of Croatia means to sign, or ratify these amendments. And also wait for some other EU member states to actually enter into this ratification process, so that we too may be a part of it. I really don't know what, and the Republic of Croatia is no strategic equipment manufacturer so it finds some of its interests in these technologies. The Republic of Croatia is of course an importer of all these products or large majority of them. It is therefore not about the interests of jobs or the interests of industry or the interests of the Croatian economy. So we will see but I think it would be better to simply wait with these amendments and that the Republic of Croatia has actually been involved there when it is apparent that it is the position of most EU member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119887	Finally, Minister Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119888	Thank you very much, here's a very short one. So, clean as information 50% of the EU member states have already adopted these amendments in their parliaments, the other countries are in the final phase. What the representative probably could not see on the pages of the Convention and a declaration of approval of amendments because it is an agreement at EU level that all Member States submit the same day to the UN Convention and the declaration because the EU is acting unanimously in these negotiations. So, we're not in a hurry, we're in a hurry, but as you might notice, these amendments relate to the period from 2013 to 2020, we're already meeting our obligations and we're working on what we're actually going to ratify. One more thing has been pointed out here, that the Croatian government has not done enough or has done nothing about renewable energy sources. I would deny it precisely with figures showing that in 2011, the share of renewables totalled 15.4% in direct energy consumption, 2012. 16.8% and 18% in 2013. Considering our target by 2020 is 20%, we have exceeded our commitment and goal. So we're doing good. What is the fact that by 2012 this share of renewable resources in direct consumption has stagnated for us. So we had one stagnation. However, by encouraging a number of renewable energy projects, the figures are changing. What is good to change also the tariff system, which encourages the production of electricity from renewable sources, is changed precisely in favour of the production of energy from biogas, wind and other renewable energy sources. And as you might have noticed, the latest amendments to the laws here in the House have also been adopted by waste management, i.e. the energy use of waste has been treated as a renewable energy source and this will also enter the incentive system. It is also very important to point out that all these investments that will be needed to reduce emissions and adapt our industry to the so-called economy. The low-carbon economy is not just a cost, it is actually an investment that will generate new jobs. And it is just a whole new concept of the transition of the European economy and so on of the Croatian economy to the so-called so-called so-called economy. a low-carbon economy which, on the other hand, opens jobs and not actually costs that our industry cannot bear. Of course we've taken care of it, we've been doing sectoral analyses, in the final phase is making a low-carbon development strategy that will appear in a public debate in October when all stakeholders will be able to contribute as well. However, this was preceded by cross-sectoral workshops, a series of expert analyses in order to be able to define the strategy in a smart, wise way and ensure that our economy but also the whole society undergoes a transition to so-called. low-carbon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119889	And we have a replica of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119890	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I hold that even the percentage that was in 2011 that you mentioned even today's percentage that speaks about 17.8 almost 18% of the participation of renewable energy in total consumption is not realistic for me. Why? Because the EU is kind enough to take that percentage and... electricity coming from renewable energy sources and energy coming from hydropotentials from hydropower plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if we put hydropower plants aside and literally look at renewable energy sources, it's gas, I apologize, it's wind, it's sunlight, it's biogas, then that percentage would be smaller and it wouldn't be the one we mentioned earlier. He wouldn't have been participated by 17.8 or 18%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119891	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119892	Final draft law confirming the amendment and addition of the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 892. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes are 112 votes in favour, no abstentions and 1 vote against the law P.Z. No. 892 in the text as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119905	Tonight we will discuss - Final bill on amendments and addition of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 886; Proposer of the Law is colleague Veljko Kajtazi. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion, and counterpart Kajtazi will explain his proposal. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119906	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Over the years, the application of the Law on Croatian Citizenship has seen many practical shortcomings that this proposal seeks to regulate in a way that removes these inequalities in favour of our citizens. Since the adoption of the Croatian Law on Citizenship, because of the fact that earlier rules on citizenship have been valid as a legal source or contain the principle of the legal continuity of Croatian citizenship, there are problems that are increasingly affecting our citizens. Given that the legislators have taken legal continuity from the previous system in the adoption of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, and given the complexity of previous solutions and their inconsistencies due to almost no meaning of the so-called the Republic of citizenship in relation to the Federal. I propose that the current laws on Croatian citizenship be amended. This is particularly important because the previous record has proved to be a bad starting point for Croatian citizenship due to errors and complicated solutions. The former republican citizenship used in this case as a legal source compared to today's Law on Croatian Citizenship did not have any meaning in everyday life, given the important situation which had federal citizenship. This situation creates a number of problems in keeping records of republican citizenship, and these problems have thus been reviewed into the new Law on Croatian Citizenship, which we are applying so far. This is particularly problematic for members of national minorities who have become victims of keeping false records of citizenship and later, although they possessed it, lost the right to Croatian citizenship. The problem was particularly highlighted after informing citizens' personal status records, i.e. national queens and citizens' books. Until mistakes were made, these citizens were considered Croatian citizens because they were issued by the competent authorities as public documents proving Croatian citizenship on the basis of their enrolment in the books of citizens. Based on the legal procedure, these citizens came out and other Croatian public IDs, passports, established employment relations, were members of the Croatian Armed Forces, their children acquired Croatian citizenship by origin, enrolled in schools as Croatian citizens and were holders of all other rights and obligations as Croatian citizens. By correcting the mistakes, these citizens are deprived of their personal IDs and are no longer considered as Croatian citizens but foreigners, and they usually do not actually have any other citizenship and do not know where they are and whether they are enrolled in the citizens' books anymore that some of the republics at the time did not even keep private records of citizenship such as Macedonia, Slovenia, Serbia has already served at the same time as citizens' records of citizenship. Taking away citizenship made life more difficult for these people, and sometimes it made it impossible for them to work in the country where they were born and in which they live. The very fact that someone who has never lived outside the Republic of Croatia has never had any other citizenship, and has not even sinned against the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia but has served on the contrary a military deadline, etc. The loss of the right to Croatian citizenship is scandalous and the purpose of the bill is to make this shameful practice impossible in the future. The situation is particularly complex if these persons have evicted from the Republic of Croatia and reside abroad as Croatian citizens, if in such cases they are persons who are not members of the Croatian people, who can prove that their life situation is even more difficult and complex. In particular, I must stress this as a representative of the national minorities because in these cases it is the minorities that should be under special constitutional protection of the state, and here they are actually punished and disproved for technical errors whose victims have become not their own merit. Since we do not have an accurate insight into how many people have been wiped out of Croatian citizenship because of the mistakes of the queens, there is a huge space for abuse in this kind of action and it is very possible for a certain number of people to be taken away from citizenship for no good reason. The aim of this bill that you have had the opportunity to read is that 25 years after the adoption of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, more and more frequent situations are prevented by correcting errors in the citizenship records because they do not match the data recorded in the birth certificate. By the competent authorities who have always been in charge of correct and accurate record keeping, they are deprived of Croatian citizenship to citizens who are registered in their citizenship records as a Croatian citizen and have been issued public documents proving Croatian citizenship or domicile. The fact is that the legislator, under the conditions of independence and achievement of state independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, presupposed and recognised Croatian citizenship to all those who had acquired it earlier under the applicable regulations, or those who were registered in the nationality records at the time. The subsequent confiscation of citizenship due to false guided records makes no sense, especially for national minorities or those living outside the Republic of Croatia because such a situation burdens them more than the members of the Croatian people who, under the Constitution, still have easier access to Croatian citizenship. That citizens should not suffer the consequences of the errors of those responsible for the proper keeping of those records also confirm the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 2009 by which errors or failures by the competent authorities should not go to the detriment of the citizens which has not been the case so far. The same position is also taken by the European Court of Human Rights, which, in the Gashi case against Croatia, pointed out that the Court considers that errors or failures by the state authorities should go to the benefit of the affected persons, in particular if this does not raise any other conflicting private interest. In other words, the error made by the state body should be borne by the state, not by the citizens. I therefore consider it justified, meaningful and legal to propose amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship in accordance with that proposal of the law. Except for the appearance of so-called the error of the issued housewives or cases in which the parties have been informed after several years or even decades that their housekeeper has been issued by the wrongly served person. I would like to stress at this time that there is room for further improvement of the provisions of the Law on Croatian Citizenship. To this we are bound by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the UN International Convention which are part of our legal order. Such amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Citizenship would help address situations that have been burdened for years by the civil status of a small number of citizens, and these are persons born in the Croatian state area, and they are not Croatian nationalities, members of minority peoples who do not have direct contact with the Republic of Croatia, refugees with long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia, persons without citizenship, apartrides, asylum seekers, persons born in the Croatian state area. According to a report by the Croatian Ombudsman, data from the MUP show that in 2014 only 11 persons gained Croatian citizenship based on birth in the Republic of Croatia. By contrast, as many as 446 persons have acquired Croatian citizenship based on marriage to a Croatian citizen. The fact that a relatively small number of persons born in the Republic of Croatia are admitted to Croatian citizenship cannot be justified by the lack of the will of those persons to apply for citizenship, but it can be explained by a considerable difficulty in meeting the prescribed conditions. The amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship of 2011 prescribed a new condition that a permanent stay must be granted, making it difficult to meet the conditions for admission to Croatian citizenship of these persons. Such a solution makes it difficult to obtain Croatian citizenship for persons born in the Republic of Croatia, who are not Croatian nationalities, which are poor property and social status, and are therefore granted temporary stay for humanitarian reasons so far. In view of the fact that the condition for obtaining citizenship has become a regulated permanent stay for those persons, it is difficult to achieve this because the conditions for granting a permanent stay are among other things and the means of maintenance provided, as well as regulated health insurance, which is not required as a condition for granting temporary stay for humanitarian reasons. These are particularly affected by members of the Roma people, who were born in the Republic of Croatia, and do not meet the conditions for Croatian citizenship, which is mostly regulated by the temporary stay for humanitarian reasons. It should be pointed out that the provision of Article 9 The Croatian Citizenship Act until the 2011 amendment required that the application of a person have a registered stay for at least five years uninterrupted on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but without the condition that permanent stay is regulated. It is therefore clear that the regulation of a new condition in the form of a permanent stay regulation resulted in the fact that a small number of persons born in the Republic of Croatia submitted a request with the acquisition of Croatian citizenship. Also in the report by the Ombudsman's staff, it has been shown that it had been addressed back several years by citizens born in the Republic of Croatia and living in the Republic of Croatia, begging for help in regulating permanent stay as legal assumptions for obtaining Croatian citizenship. Their examples indicated that there were situations of life that were not easily evaluated by the Foreign Law, which occurred for reasons that these persons could not influence and that they had previously been unable to regulate their stay or acquire Croatian citizenship. Despite the fact of birth and life in the Republic of Croatia under the provisions of the Foreign Law, they were granted only the first temporary stay for humanitarian reasons or for family reunion, which only after a further five years of regulated temporary stay opened the possibility for them to apply for permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the Law on Foreigners of 2013 have been adopted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and a provision has been implemented in the Law on Foreigners that a foreigner who was born and was born live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who for reasons which he could not influence has not had a regulated stay may regulate a permanent stay without prior approved temporary stay for five years. However, the said provision of the Foreign Law did not result in an appropriate result, given that, in accordance with the existing Act on Foreigners for the regulation of permanent residence and for these persons, the means of maintenance and regulated health insurance are sought. As evidence, I would like to state to the MUP that, pursuant to Article 94(4) of that Article, they are points (a) and (b) of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. In 2014, only three requests for authorisation for permanent stay were positively resolved. I therefore find it justified that persons who are undoubtedly part of Croatian society who have been born and lived in the Republic of Croatia since their birth but because of the existence of different circumstances and reasons that they could not objectively influence themselves or who have even happened through the guilt of others, such as errors in the work of state bodies, did not have a regulated stay in the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of receiving Croatian citizenship under more favourable conditions. In line with the European Commission's opinion on the need to take action in order to address the problems facing citizens who live in the Republic of Croatia for a long time and are not Croatian nationalities. Members of minority people who have a direct relationship with the Republic of Croatia in the preamble to the Constitution states that the Republic of Croatia is established as a national state of the Croatian people and members of the national minorities of Serbs, Czech Republic, Slovakian, Italians, Hungarians, Jews, Germans, Austrians, Ukrainians, Bosnians, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlachs, Albanians and others who are citizens who guarantee equality with Croatian peoples and exercise national rights in accordance with the democratic norms of the United Nations and the free world. National minorities within the meaning of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities are a group of Croatian citizens whose members are traditionally resident in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and its members have ethnic, linguistic, cultural or religious characteristics different from other citizens and are driven by the desire to preserve these characteristics. The European Commission's report on the fight against racism on the Republic of Croatia raises the question of obtaining Croatian citizenship of persons who are not Croatian nationalities and who are related to the Republic of Croatia by the fact that they lived in the Republic of Croatia in the long term and before the Homeland War, and are now in the status of returnees or have lived in the Republic of Croatia all the time, but have not yet acquired Croatian citizenship. Since the process of acquiring Croatian citizenship is different from that of obtaining citizenship for persons of Croatian nationality. The European Commission for the fight against racism has called for all necessary measures to be taken to address the problems facing citizens who live in the Republic of Croatia for a long time and are not Croatian nationalities. The solution to the question in question was sought by the regulation of Article 19. The 2011 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, according to which persons who were resident in the Republic of Croatia on 8 October 1991 and who were granted a permanent stay meet the assumptions of the necessary stay in the procedures of obtaining Croatian citizenship. However, according to the Ministry of the Interior, for example in 2013, only 15 requests for Croatian citizenship of returnees were received from which 2 cases were resolved positively, and 10 cases were issued to guarantee the reception of Croatian citizenship. This indicates the difficult possibility for returnees to meet the prescribed conditions of regulated permanent stay, given that the procedures for granting permanent stay are long or that the purpose of returnees is negatively determined to live permanently in the Republic of Croatia. It is not disputed to allow members of the Croatian people to obtain Croatian citizenship under more favourable conditions, but there is no obstacle not to give such an option to persons who have a strong link with the Republic of Croatia, which Croatian citizenship cannot obtain by other legal persons of unfettered naturalisation or can but with the fulfilment of additional conditions approved, for example approved permanent stay. Therefore, it follows that for people who have a strong relationship with the Republic of Croatia and feel that they are informal members of the national minority because formal members of the national minority become only by obtaining Croatian citizenship there is no unfettered legal provision for obtaining Croatian citizenship through which the procedure for them would be different from any other foreigner. Refugees with long-term stay in the Republic of Croatia, I would like to point out that the Republic of Croatia has generously received a significant number of Roma who were forced to leave their homes because of the war situation in Kosovo in 2000. These persons were in refugee status for several years when they had to regulate their stay in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Law. The solution was found in a way that the former refugees were granted temporary stay for humanitarian reasons per year to be extended each year. Such a solution significantly makes it difficult for the situation that people in the Republic of Croatia are now living for more than a decade. In fact, every year these people go through a re-procedure to approve temporary stay for humanitarian reasons, which is an extremely expensive procedure for them. Also, while some of them meet the legal requirement of 5 years of regulated stay in the Republic of Croatia to seek permanent stay, they cannot do so because the condition for permanent stay and adequate means of maintenance, as well as the regulation of health insurance, which is unrealistic for a person who has regulated status for humanitarian reasons. The Republic of Croatia is also a party to the 1951 Convention on Refugee Status and its 1967 Protocol on Refugee Status. The Republic of Croatia is a party to other relative international human rights agreements. Croatian legislation on asylum and migration is in line with the EU's international principles and acquis. This Regulation shall enter The United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees of 1951 reads: "The states of the Contracting Parties will make assimilation as much easier as possible when refugees are born. In particular, it will endeavour to speed up the procedure before the arrangements, and to minimise the costs and expenditure of the procedure to the greatest extent possible. People without citizenship are apatrides and asylum seekers without citizenship who have a particularly negative impact on the lives of individuals. The possession of citizenship is necessary for full participation in society and is a prerequisite for the enjoyment of a whole series of human rights. In Croatia, according to UNHCR data, about 2886 people are covered by their mandate, including those who do not have registered citizenship status. Of this number, Roma make up a large majority of people without citizenship or unregistered persons in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of the 1961 UN Convention on the reduction of cases without citizenship. In this context, it is necessary, in accordance with the provisions of international conventions that make up the legal order of our country, to improve the possibility of facilitating admission to Croatian citizenship. It is primarily thought that the number of years needed, now 8 years of registered stay in the Republic of Croatia for people without citizenship and asylum will be 5 years. So the same as for other persons who, under privileged conditions, acquire Croatian citizenship, for example persons born in the Republic of Croatia and persons married to Croatian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119907	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A colleague Drazen Djurovic had a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119908	You've already forgotten, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119909	It's been a long time since you called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119910	I wanted to ask you something, and that's what an administrative mistake it was, so content, how the... authorities did it, and what number of people you're actually talking about here by returning to some laws a few decades ago. Where these people are, how many people have been taken away from these nieces, so which number of people has been taken away by the Republic of Croatia. So you've brought out a lot of valuable courts, attitudes, reflections, but you've brought out very few numbers. What numbers we are talking about and what it means, what these numbers, or the acceptance of these amendments to your laws, mean and in which numbers will be reflected in the future on the number of Croatian citizens. So what number of people you're actually targeting here, what phases and what kind of mistake that was actually happening. You didn't say anything about her, you just said it was some kind of administrative mistake. What a big deal, what a mistake, if you can tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119911	Big Kajtazi, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119912	Thank you. Dear colleague, we can't determine the exact number because given that we've repeatedly looked for it then every time they tell us that the data we're asking is that it's not in line and that we can't get it by name. And otherwise, the very mistakes that have occurred, the mistakes have arisen and the problem has arisen 24 years ago, so everyone knew about the problem. So the mistake was made in certain matriarchs who were part of the enrolment from 1945 to 1978 and from '78. Until '91. was second and then since '91. To date, it's the third way. So it's an entry into the republican citizenship that in some ways some republics kept records, and some did not keep records, and it was a big mistake, especially among the members of the Roma national minority where they knew how to get to another republic and so they didn't lead at all. And then after 15-24 years of eradicating these people, which I don't think was certainly the political will to solve such problems, because if there was any political will, there would certainly be problems about eradicating and they would all be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119913	Now we're going to have a debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119914	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS was one of the clubs whose representatives supported this proposal and we support the law-proposed solution. Namely, Article 30. The law as proposed in paragraph 2 goes hand in hand to those persons of Croatian citizens who, because of the administrative measure that was carried out in themselves, could not have been included in the knowledge that they were being taken away from their niece but were simply a person when she came to see the housekeeper for the wedding or any other action in which a certificate of Croatian citizenship was requested was notified you are not a Croatian citizen you are deleted from Croatian citizenship, and that neither at any stage of the procedure so-called. Administrative counterpart Djurovic, this person or members of their family were not informed that the procedure was being conducted and had no legal possibility of participating in this to dispute, to prove otherwise or otherwise. In that sense, I'm going to give you an example of a person named N.B. from Vukovar, born Vukovar, born in '84. The year, which is the housewife, it's a male person, the housekeeper was issued in '97. In April 2008, he went to the home office in Vukovar to report the wedding. He was told he was mistakenly enrolled in Croatian citizenship and could not receive confirmation of Croatian citizenship. So the Police Administration of the Vukovar-Srijem solution took away his Croatian citizenship by reason that it was entered in the home books of another country, i.e. BiH, and that his housekeeper, which was issued in '97, and other personal documents showing that a Croatian citizen was issued by mistake, and that in the meantime it was annulled, meaning the cancellation of his identity card, the annulment of the number of citizens and everything that makes someone who is a citizen in his national identity a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and what identity can then be acquired by all others under the Constitution and by law acquired rights. People born in Vukovar elementary and high school graduated from Vukovar, the Croatian army served in Vukovar, or in nearby places. There is no citizenship of any other country, has never left the Republic of Croatia or checked out with a stay from the Republic of Croatia. So after 24 years of living in the Republic of Croatia with citizenship, he becomes a foreigner without a single document and without a single citizenship. Practically without a single citizen identity. Just because one of the parents was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina as I now remember, because I was dealing with this case for a while. How many cases are there? Like my colleague Kajtazi said, we don't know. We know a number of people who speak to us for legal aid. But when we ask the competent authority of the state administration to tell us how many people are administratively removed from Croatian citizenship, then it doesn't give us that. They don't give for any specific group, they don't give for any kind of citizen. That's why you should say it here in this House of Commons, because the Ministry of Interior has been systematically since 8.10.'91. It is therefore a matter of recognition to persons who are until 8.10.1991. the years had Croatian citizenship and only they were recognised continuity and nothing more. So this person I cited was born before 8.10.1991. In the year, it's written in a citizen's book, and that person is only recognised for continuity like '97. year someone did the right thing in accordance with Croatian law. But someone else decided to change that and the subsequent revision began to erase part of Croatian citizens, which is, of course, from the point of view of the rights of these people, and for our understanding and from the point of view of the interest of the Republic of Croatia that suffers serious demographic losses due to age, serious demographic losses due to going to other countries, because of emigration, because of refugee and a number of other reasons, it is simply pointless to have such a restrictive policy as the Ministry of Interior and such a restrictive practice as the Ministry of Interior, in which persons who lived or lived in the Republic of Croatia 30, 40 years acquired their property, children were practically naturalised citizens of the Republic of Croatia have found themselves out of the possibility to choose Croatian citizenship because someone had a restrictive interpretation or restrictive approach to those who were different and other nationalities. And if during the 1990s there could have been some raid for such a process, but which raid can be now that we have a clear, naked demographic situation in the country. When the country is legally stabilised, not just introduced into a new legal order, it already has a legal order of 20 and a few years. The Law on Citizenship has not changed significantly in its provisions, nor has it changed in an important sense of practice. And instead of dealing with those who were issuing citizenship with their hands and hats in certain other places and Croatian passports with their hands and hats and to seduce the order that served and any actions that threatened both the economic and political and overall security of the Republic of Croatia when it came to fighting international crime and organised crime. Here it goes to prove how it should be done, in our opinion wrong and harmful. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, as I have already said, supports this legislative amendment and hopes that the practice of admission to Croatian citizenship will cease to be as restrictive as it is now, because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and makes life more difficult for its de facto citizens who have lived here for decades. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia gives very liberal citizenship to those who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If this is the policy of the Republic of Croatia in assessing that it is a national interest, we have nothing against it and we have never spoken against it before, nor do we think we should speak. But to those who are de facto Croatian citizens and who want Croatian citizenship, whose children are here there is no reason not to give Croatian citizenship and follow restrictive measures as they are unfortunately reserved by the Ministry of the Interior. Had there not been a different understanding of other ministries, and unfortunately we would not have had this proposal in the House, it would have been the question of those who decided on it in the department of the interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119915	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119916	Thank you. Well, that example you set is really quite bizarre, and I have to admit it. I don't think I'm directed enough at it, but I really don't see how it can happen that someone who is born and lives in Croatia is being challenged by citizenship and adults and schools and works in Croatia. I wouldn't really get into that, but that should actually be made clear. And as far as the MIP's policy on hiding data is concerned, it is, I think we all remember that story from Slovenia about those deleted where the Slovenians came out clearly with the data. It was known what number of people, on which grounds, and why the state made the decision as it made and when it made it, it was clear what the effects of the decision-making were in number. So, when they changed their policies. Why am I asking here about numbers we obviously can't actually get? Because this is one way back with such a very vague picture of the goals that should actually be applied to. And I think I don't know if anyone in Croatia has doubts about not allowing all those living, working, being born in Croatia to be challenged or erased by that citizenship. But also the Republic of Croatia should have the right and the ability to defend its own. The Republic of Croatia is a poor country that needs to defend its right not to take over some social, opening actually borders, some social burdens when the burden of its social problems itself cannot bear. In fact, I mean this opening of the enrolment of some people who once entered the home offices in those periods, and in fact maybe they never lived or worked in the Republic of Croatia. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119917	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119918	So, we agree with you that those who have neither lived nor worked in the Republic of Croatia should not even be able to become Croatian citizens except strictly under Croatian law. This means the prescribed number of years for obtaining the status of temporary stay first and then for obtaining permanent stay, and then for applying for Croatian citizenship afterwards. And nothing more. But this is really about people living in the Republic of Croatia, who were Croatian citizens and were Croatian citizens until a few years ago, someone decided to delete them from Croatian citizenship. So, ten years ago, an administrative measure. Because someone said at one point that mistakes were made in enrolment with Croatian citizenship. You say this is not precise enough, and you can imagine the situation where someone is left to assess whether it's a mistake or not, and without any possibility of yours or mine, if it's about you or me noting us to see, to explain, to make a complaint, to say you have no right or to have the wrong information or incomplete data. And as for social burdens, you are right here, but the Republic of Croatia has opened up in this regard with its own policy which has some basis in the Constitution. But this Constitution is applied literally. And when you take a closer look at the information about Croatian citizens outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the pictures will be very clear to you. I wouldn't comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119919	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119920	Well, I picked up a replica because this sounds a little weird what you were saying because it turns out someone can overwrite someone with a rubber. There's got to be some kind of document. So someone has to give up some kind of solution that's why someone can't be. The truth is, the moment we introduced the OIB, it showed that somewhere around 400,000 people younger, certain years who didn't ask for any credentials in the MUP, you weren't recorded because there was no match between the birth book and the data kept by the MUP. So this is the fact and the truth that exists, there is an official record at the Ministry of Finance when we have established all the anomalies that occurred in Croatia before the introduction of the OIB. But regardless, so if you had some kind of document and someone took it away from you, he has to give you a solution. It's an administrative matter and simply no one can take that document away from you without that solution. And if someone has given you a solution, then that solution has a rule of law and you have the right to complain. And I think that's what you said, and so did my colleague Djurovic, and we say that I don't think we can just pass the law that without the criteria that someone can get some documents because it's crazy to say that someone's going to argue that they're a Croatian citizen if they have all the arguments. So I think no one can do it. And if someone did it very easily, it can be proven and it can be eliminated in the administrative procedure. That's why I'm saying what you're saying is kind of weird to me like someone remembered and erased someone from somewhere. However, in order for him to do so, he has to issue a solution because otherwise, if he does not do so, the document he has is full of and no one can take it away from him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119921	Milorad Pupovac's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119922	I agree with you on everything if that's the case. That's how it's supposed to be, and as you're actually right as I am, it has to be because the law doesn't say it has to be. Unfortunately, therefore, many people did not get a solution and did not have the opportunity to give any guidance on the real medicine, not even to know this person, nor this young man who may have had it while serving a deadline in the Croatian Army. Unfortunately, he probably wouldn't have known it would still be used in Croatian documents that he had with his ID card and so on until he got there and if he hadn't been told now you have to return all the documents. It's very unusual and I agree with you. Did someone mistake the fact that the process of eradicating residence for people who really don't reside for 10 years and come to some solution with citizenship I don't know or someone at some point decided to go check on someone's objection or to report that there are people who are wrongly enrolled in Croatian citizenship. We don't know that either, because we haven't been able to talk seriously to the representatives of the competent state body. And otherwise, everything you've said in this regard, I think it is, and I agree with you, except for the fact that the departments unfortunately did not act that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119923	Big Kajtazi replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119924	Thank you. You encouraged me with your example, and you listed a young person. I will tell about one person who has acquired everything, but not in Croatia but out of Croatia and this from the area of Brod-Posavina County otherwise we have had erasure from both the Brod-Posavina County and from the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. A person who had long years of Croatian citizenship and came to visit her and her house on average at least four to five times a year. And one year when she came, and before I knew you that she was where she worked, she had everything, so she had a job, she had her apartment taken care of, she had kids, she had everything. The second she arrived, she was called in and taken away her citizenship and could no longer return so quickly. And now I'm asking how and in what way they could have also done so to one person who after 15, 20 years of institution that the niece wasn't right, that's one thing. The second thing I wanted to say, also that the Roma in these areas are not since yesterday, they are in these areas 700 years, have tradition, culture, names and last names, and all other but easy circumstances have nothing compared to those of others who are out, when I speak out of some other continents who also seek Croatian citizenship and get it much easier than can be obtained by members of the Roma national minority or other national minorities who are in these areas much longer and much more. I personally don't know how many more of those should be taken away, I don't know how many, and I'm sure there's a lot more to plan. And it's fortunate that these people don't know, but I think I also hope that this law will be passed on Friday and that we will in some way prevent these people from taking away their citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119925	Milorad Pupovac's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119926	Dear colleague, such examples unfortunately were more according to our knowledge than the one you speak of. But there have been many examples of people who have citizenship in other countries who have been admitted into Croatian citizenship and have never had that kind of experience. No time, no time, no situation. Even if they don't have property in the Republic of Croatia, they only have an address. I have spoken here and I will repeat one more example and this certainly is not a lonely example in either Zagreb or any other city. A friend of mine, my friends who rented the apartment without the owner telling them that five other families were reported at the address of that apartment. Only so much for Minister Suker and counterpart Djurovic. I'm not talking about voting or anything else, I'm talking about health, social and all. Five families registered at that address under war circumstances and, of course, circumstances when people used opportunities for Croatian citizenship. If the state can endure and see it as its national interest to the office, but why cut off other citizens, then why cut off those who are Roma, Serbian or other nationalities? And which one did he have at the end of it? Today it is shown that it is not an interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119927	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119928	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is about an extremely short law. He basically intervenes only in one provision of the Croatian Citizenship Act. This is about a law that we can even ask if is really necessary. And probably in one country where it has become the rule of law since the moment that matters to this law, which is 8.10.1991, so far, such a law would not be necessary. But in Croatia with everything we've done, with the way we've shared our citizenship with hand and hat and who goes and who doesn't go, and the bigger problems we've made about whether or not we're going to give citizenship to someone who goes, this law is necessary. Most people don't know it or don't know it, but every time we ask and we get an I.D., someone who works within the MUP has made a solution. a solution on the basis of which a certificate, document, is issued to the citizen, the belief that the person owns, among other things, Croatian citizenship. After the state authorities had issued such beliefs for years, to delete someone without conducting a procedure to determine, for example, that this person had falsely presented certain information, that she had committed a criminal offence or something like that is inadmissible. If we look only at the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is clear that there are very, very strict deadlines concerning the abolition and repealing of a particular solution. To end it's a year, to cancel it's five years, to establish nothingness, and it can always. But then the state body has to prove that the person who committed the matter is one of the reasons for establishing nothingness, as I mentioned, is among other things a criminal offence. That wasn't happening here. In order to ensure that those members of our society who have been properly enrolled in the book of Croatian citizens, who have subsequently been regulated by the state authorities responsible for the management of the book and the competent authorities for issuing certificates, have received both the housekeeper and the passport and all other documents, as well as the identity card proving Croatian citizenship in order to protect those persons, this law must be passed and therefore will support the adoption of this law by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119929	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119930	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My fellow coat of arms agrees with yours, I agree with your assessment that, in fact, under normal circumstances, you should not pass this law, in fact, such cases should be dealt with in a administrative procedure if you cannot take away anyone's citizenship he has won, especially if he has received it by normal procedure, rather than by some kind of... However, what should be said with these connotations being said and what Pupovac was saying with some kind of cancer that could have been justified earlier today, and not today, then you should say these people have received the housekeepers from what is said here, I would never have mentioned that date if I believe that the Croatian state was 25.6 and not 8.10, so they were given in the 1990s and later they got those citizenships. Is this intervention in this law said it refers to those who have received the housekeeper and cannot be annulled afterwards. So we're talking about a period if it's an illegal or behavior that goes from today on back, I don't know how many years, obviously even gentlemen don't know since they didn't know how many years it's been. So let's just focus a little bit on this period over the last decade or which times that happens, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119931	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119932	Well, I can agree with you on that, but this problem has a long history. And that history stems from another fact, I used to say that people are not aware that when they get a ID card to issue a solution, but many are not aware that during Yugoslavia, we also had the citizenship of a particular republic that was part of that Yugoslavia. We also need to be aware that these books were certainly not the most orderly one in Croatia but in some other republics, but in Croatia there were some problems. Why am I talking about this? Because the problems systematically related to enrollment in the book of Croatian citizens existed, for example in Istria because of its unresolved status, first until the '48s and the Paris Peace Agreement, and then for the second part of Istria until 1980, both the Roman and the Isolim agreements. And in such situations many of my fellow citizens had great problems getting into the book of Croatian citizens, and this lasted until '92, and until '93, and until '94, because they had no prior record of enrolment in the book of Croatian citizens during Yugoslavia. Born in Pula, reading life lived in Pula, maybe two, three times they went to Trieste and suddenly cannot achieve citizenship. That's why I feel special sensitivity to this problem that my colleague Katazi is talking about. And yes, yes, we need to concentrate in time since '91, but this is a problem with a little longer gene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119933	I'm closing the debate. The bill will be voted on later. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.00 p.m. for those who want to present certain opinions of clubs, and at 9.30 p.m. we will begin the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Making of the Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-21-0.u119934	Final draft law on Croatian citizenship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 886. The proposer of the law is a representative of Veljko Kajtazi. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the vote is 76 votes in favour of, 8 abstentions, 27 votes against P.Z. law. No. 886 in the text as proposed by the applicant. Good morning distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. According to our agreement, we begin at 9 o'clock so that representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament can present their views on some topical topics as a press conference in the Croatian Parliament. Are there any such questions? There is. Honorable representative Mladen Novak.
