ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105879	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. You're waving at me, I don't know if you're saying hello or what? Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105880	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since HRT is several thousand light years away from the Croatian Parliament that we can't get some data, I would have, since it was the conclusion of this high house, asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105881	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105882	Same reason the left-wing club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105883	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105884	Dear Madam Vice President. For one important different reason, although I am very interested in what is happening on HRT, as to Slovenian Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac's statement Wednesday that he has informal information that the arbitration court that is resolving the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia on the verdict will allow Slovenia to contact the open sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105885	And Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105886	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to talk about both cases in five minutes, but I don't know why to make up my mind since these two are about television, then Mr. Cain and I are going to talk about our sea, so we care about nostrum croaticum. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like it's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105887	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105888	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. About HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105889	I'm setting a break to 9.42. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] The HDZ club's position will be told by counterpart Jasen Mesic about HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105891	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My fellow Members and colleagues, I am sorry that there is no President of Mr. Lek's Parliament here to explain to him that there is no need for any opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to discuss the completion of the Croatian Parliament calling on the Croatian Director-General of Radio Television to deliver the salaries of leading people on HRT. As he did a while ago, I think of the director of HRT as providing a shameful report, which is evident in one table, which was why all the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament were protesting even questioning the truthfulness of this data, we reached a further conclusion where we called on the Media Committee the Director to submit the information within 5 days. The conclusion was forwarded to the president of the Croatian Parliament who placed it 60th on the agenda. Unless the President of the Parliament has a problem with the conclusions this House has voted on, we are not surprised, because he obviously confused the role of Parliament President with the chairman of the SDP's General Committee, so he probably does not do as the Croatian Parliament votes, but obviously as some of his parties suggest. How far this goes shows you and the transcript we have from the previous current morning where the President of the Parliament reports that the government has not responded within the prescribed deadline of 56 answers or 56 parliamentary questions, that the Government has not answered within the business period and that it is asking the Government to answer these questions. Apparently, his requests have not been answered because some answers do not come for a year, no matter what the article of the Rules of Procedure says that the President of the Parliament needs to ask for answers, not to pray in this particular case, so obviously the President of the Parliament has a big problem with the settlement. Since yesterday we received information that the director of Croatian Radio Television will deafen the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament to deliver requested data on amounts of salaries, calling for legal provisions that it is not legally possible to ask for this to be discussed at the plenary session, so the conclusion put on the 60th point as soon as possible, the more we also received the opinion of the Commissioner for Information which claims in his opinion that such data on the gross amount of wages can be delivered to the Croatian Assembly. As long as the Croatian Parliament, which voted in common, suffers such neglect, such terror, while also persecuting journalists on HRT who have dared to have their own opinion and opinion. At the same time, the president of the Croatian Parliament who should be first among the equal and implement before and after all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, respecting until the last point of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion, puts the conclusion now at the 60th point of the agenda, hoping that it will never come to the debate. Shameful colleagues and colleagues, that the conclusion we voted together with the desire to show transparently to Croatian citizens, in which, among other things, the funds they spend for the subscription are being spent, calling again on the opinion of the Commissioner for Information, who claims that this is fully in line with the law and that this is possible for us to ask that the agenda item be put on an urgent debate and move from 60th place to the agenda for discussion. And we're asking for the President of the Parliament to make that clear, because the information that it requires some kind of opinion from the government is simply a fake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105892	Thank you. On behalf of the club Independent Left-handed fellow Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105893	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We're government employers, any government. We're not asking the government, we're asking for it. Which is why Mr. Radman behaves as he acts against the law, in fact he defies one institution above which only the people should be no one else. But it looks like Mr. Radman's doing it,... The Croatian Parliament for what he was told. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP and the rest of the Kukuriku coalition played very hypocritically this time. What did they do? They publicly advocated that Croatian broadcasting has to give the Assembly all the information about all the receipts, especially creative staff, and secretly, in four eyes, they told Radman don't do it, we cluck it so much because of the public, and that's the whole truth. That's embarrassing! And let the public remember what is done and how is done. If that wasn't the case, HDZ would be on the agenda right next week and we would have settled it. There are afternoon appointments, we know how the parties in power do it, the afternoon, at 9:00 a.m., five people are put in and settled. But they say they won't even agree to it. That 60th point will never be on the agenda. It's just like we Independent Left-handeds proposed the Property Origin Act, it's the same place around 60th place, we fight for 60th place. It will never be a turn, because the Croatian government will not catch thieves. They won't punish those who stole it and it's a simple message so they know what it is. If there are laws that allow public money spending to be kept secret, they should be abolished immediately, the money should not be spent secretly. Now I'm listening to a misunderstanding about the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I suspect a crime. HACOM, which rented the premises, some claims are 20, 23 euros per metre square. Remember this afternoon we discussed here, it seems to me that even Friday afternoon was about it. First, the board rejected the new head of HACOM and then came the directive, HDZ, when it comes to having a job because it is of great interest. And HAKOM still spends his pardons and no one, there are criminal charges but no one solves anything. What's going on on HRT, why shouldn't we be suspicious? There are secret contracts that can't be seen. Look, people who dig through garbage cans, who pay 80 kuna a month, they can't know what they're paying. All those who spend public money, all who are on the state budget or who have incentives all salaries must be paid, all receipts must be made public. Therefore, I do not understand why Mr. Radman is treated the way he is treated. He has committed so many violations, that no more democratic state than Croatia would survive in its position today. On a function that's too important. By making a program that we can admire and that we can worship in the morning when we get up first to bow down to the program. No, he made fear on HRT, introduced himself to a big door a verbal delinquent, and the Parliament kept quiet about it. They're firing journalists because they say Radman's working badly. Well, I think you're going to introduce a law by making every MP who says he's going to work badly get fired immediately. It will be above the people's reach. Radman said when he came to make television in the '70s, you remember that. I realized, even after this pay phone, I defended him and said that I realized that he meant the quality of the '70s program, the '80s when those shows worked. However, he made political television after Karajordjev and it is embarrassing! And we suffer it here in the Parliament! He shows us a long nose, he crawls his tongue and says no! And what can you do for me? Because behind me stands Mr. Milanovic, behind me stands the Kukuriku coalition. And the fact that the Kukuriku coalition has agreed and we have unanimously concluded that it has to spread all the data and they have to be public on the receipts of all employees it's just a hoax.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105894	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105895	Dear Vice-Presidents, gentlemen, I am absolutely against the shift of Mrs. Gojan and Mrs. Hlorke Novak-Srzic, against introducing a part of the opinion into any public institutions, against the fear of the HRT, against ignoring the Parliament from public institutions, against hiding data, and about salaries on HRT. However, allow me to speak in a few sentences about Slovenian Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac's move, which said on Wednesday that he had unofficial information that the arbitration court that settled the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia in the ruling would allow Slovenia's contact with the open sea and would be very disappointed if that did not happen. Erjavec said that he remains optimistic about the outcome of the arbitration and that he has informal information that such contact with the open sea in the arbitration ruling will be obtained by Slovenia and that the optimists and experts for international law which Slovenia has hired to represent before arbitration. It further states that it is crucial to have contact with the open sea, it is our vital interest, and otherwise I would be very disappointed said Erjavec in a conversation for local television, etc. Among other judgments of arbitration is expected this year in June or autumn. Croatia and Slovenia interpreted the English word "junction" differently before the arbitration court and so on. Now I would also like to ask if our negotiators are optimistic or pessimistic? Are we going to pass here as well as the genocide suit? However, there are more messages coming from the other side, and these are Slovenians titled "Stop Adriatic Oil". Slovenian Environment Minister Irena Majcen said there is a possibility for Slovenia to deny approval for disputed energy projects of neighbouring countries if they are considered to have a negative impact on Slovenia and that this relates to oil and gas extraction in the Adriatic, etc. If so, it is very easy for Croatia to lose 100 square kilometres of sea. So, by doing so, Istra will lose 100 square miles of sea. Without the sea, the city of Umag will be lost. We now see what Croatia has simply paid for the price of EU accession. Between the rest and 100 square miles of sea or more than 100 km. If we hadn't changed the Constitution, if we hadn't changed the provisions on the referendum, we wouldn't have joined the EU. Clearly, I am for the best possible relations with Slovenians or citizens living on the other side of the border line. I live six miles from the border, we've always been a song would say one soul one body. My dialect is identical to the one in the area of Copra, and among us, it's really like the people we live there, there's no difference. Finally, one Slovenian Tomos has launched a bust like today, for example, one Cimos ensures the social stability of a bust but not just a bust. I also remember the day before the ratification of the famous Racan-Drnovšek agreement with Mr. Racan, and we were able to convince Mr. Racan that he was not giving way around a hectare around Joras' house. Not to give away what is ours. And I remember when we came out of that office that Mr. Fattyhu said literally I think that only today we solved the mainland, the second time we came I guess we'd solve the sea, but then we didn't discuss the sea and it ended the way it ended. I will give blood to my brother, Slovenian, but the country simply does not, although someone will say it is not as important because it is not seen at sea. What certainly happened well during yesterday that finally appeared and Mr. Cvitan on RTL gave the first interview after a year, among other things by apostropheing events around some of our banks. And I will now remind him that Mr Nujic's replacement of the chief state attorney was under way in 2005. A request from Klagenfurt headed towards the Ban Courts, according to the county of the Ban Courts, there the secretary of one party spoke with judges who should take over the post and then the job was refinanced at the Ministry of Justice. It's sad, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105896	You've been talking about more issues than you've announced your colleague Cain as usual. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105897	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. He says one saying, "Who smokes in the cold once in a while." Why I have applied today in connection with the topic caused by Mr Karl Erjavac's statement of a famous person who has indeed expressed the most negative opinions in the EU, in the European Parliament and everywhere and has been the strongest opponent of Croatia and Croatia's entry into the EU. They say he's a very obnoxious and very personal man, etc. But I don't care. I have earned a strict warning here in the Croatian Parliament of the insistence of Mr. Seks, I do not know who chaired the House here, Mr. Mimaca was vice president when I said that the agreement that was reached and handed over to the arbitration of this case, the border dispute, and for me he does not exist, and not to the International Court for the Law of the Sea in Hamburg of High Issues. That's what I said, and I'm saying today, even if I get a warning or a strict warning again. In fact, I wonder why Croatia has ever given up the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is thus prescribed by the United Nations, whose member and Slovenia are defined, which defines ways of demarcating the border at sea. So it's defined by the United Nations Convention. In our talks with Slovenia we gave in, the reason I will not enter into why we gave in, but no one under the Croatian Constitution has the right to give part of Croatian territory but also a part of the sea to anyone else because it is high treason. As obedients of Europe and even negotiations with Slovenia, we gave some ad hoc body some sort of arbitration commission to distinguish us from sea to so-called. It's raining all over the place. And now as Cain says, we will not prejudge the matter, I said when I received a strict warning from God to show that I was wrong, then I will apologize to the negotiators with Slovenia here to present Mrs. Kosor as Prime Minister, I will kneel and apologize and say sorry I was wrong. Oh, my God, and I'm staying here until then to publicly apologize to Mrs. Kosor who signed it, so we're going to arbitration with Slovenia in connection with the border at sea. It is not only unfortunately one high treason in the Republic of Croatia. So look what Rohatinski has done with decisions as governor of the CNB, allowing us to be robbed, to rob the Croatian people of foreign banks. See here now there will be a set of blocked, here in St. Mark's Square and how many gatherings are in Croatia's robbed people. It's high treason too. As the foreign minister has not yet made any move to establish borders in the Danube, to identify Croatian cadastrian and grante particles that exist on the left side of the Danube, as well as Sarengrad's plight. Like high treason and the problem that is now here with Montenegro, we do not know the status of Prevlaka. It's all high treason. And that is why breakfast is organised in Brussels for donors for Bosnia and Herzegovina as if Croatia is in a much better situation than Bosnia and Herzegovina. We need donors for Croatia, not Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs help, but what factor are we in organising breakfasts in Luxembourg for donations in Bosnia and Herzegovina? These are all things that are a little bit of silence going through Croatian politics and in the end, when the opinion of the arbitration court is expressed which is irrevocably irrevocable, there is no more appeal or anything else we will have to listen to. And as counterpart Cain said without, if this junction which you have wrongly said, but it is written a Union of Slovenia, it could have been virtually virtual and beyond our sea, no one is defending Slovenian ships to sail to international waters, so it could have been solved in a hundred ways. Unfortunately, as I called it in my speech at the time in the Parliament that I had earned a strict reminder and also of the insistence of the gentleman, Mr. Shakespeare was then Vice President of the Parliament and Mr. Mimica chaired the Croatian Assembly. It's saddening that the sadder it can't be. The truth will come in June, maybe later and then whatever decision I make, I'm willing to make a public apology if it's any different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105898	I'm warning you three times in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105899	I'm afraid Karl Erjavec is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105900	Stay away from your fellow hard words. And counterpart Kosor, as Prime Minister, signed an arbitration treaty based on the decision of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105901	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank you for the intervention because I think it is very dangerous to degrade and qualify without arguments from the Croatian Parliament for any reason in Croatian history. But I reported that on behalf of our club, I would talk about the relationship between HRT and HRT director to the Croatian Parliament. So, I agree with the assessment that the inclusion of our conclusion, the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, is to discuss this relationship with HRT which is as much as I remember and if I am well informed is still owned by the state where the main director is elected in the Croatian Parliament, so the decision is absolutely incomprehensible that in fact by putting in such a low place on the agenda we are actually ordering that Mr. Director of HRT continues in its decisions to refuse to provide information to the Croatian Parliament on which the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public has the right to actually order only you to sing in the Battle Song Assembly, and I will also do what we want and what is on our minds. This is ignoring the Parliament, the highest representative body, it is, of course, ignoring and absolutely humiliating the Law on HRT which has clearly laid down the obligations of both directors and other HRT officials. And that is why I think I have to react, and that is why I suggest we encourage because it is obvious that most of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament, the representatives of some clubs are almost not here today, but apparently most of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament disagree with that relationship, disagrees with that attitude of HRT towards the Parliament, as well as the agenda of the Croatian Parliament towards the Croatian Parliament. So, I suggest that next week we organise a plenary session to have Mr. Radman come to the assembly and answer all the questions asked, and if he doesn't want to, then I think the Croatian Parliament must do what would be necessary in such a case. What is happening today on HRT is unbearable, from interpersonal relations, political divisions, political games to truly physical collapse seen on screens until chairs fail, shooting chairs, shooting chairs, falling down, falling reflectors, firing journalists. And recently, we heard it for the first time, and it calls for the conscience of the speaker on HRT, it's in the history of that house, and for a long time I've worked there, it hasn't happened that some speaker points to the appeal of conscience because he doesn't want to read any texts. Which means that tomorrow some cameraman can appeal to the conscience that he doesn't want to take a statement from one of you sent to the Croatian Parliament, and he says that person is so antipathic to me, I don't share political views with her, I won't film. Let a journalist or journalist say no, out of the question with that person I don't want to talk to, I appeal to my conscience. How far does that go? In that house, they keep quiet, they actually keep quiet about everything like they keep quiet about their salaries. And while I can keep quiet about my wages, I can keep quiet about everything else. So, ladies and gentlemen's Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, if the HRT is already disdaining us, the Parliament must not disdain itself. In Croatia, so many people really think that this High House is actually a completely unnecessary place, that is what all research grades say, and that is why I think we really need to be determined this time, and if every time we start a session, we need to look for a break to warn both the President of the Parliament and the public about this unsustainable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u105902	Thank you. Now we're going back to today's debate. We'll discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Land, second reading, P.Z. No. 687 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. I now call on Deputy Minister of Agriculture Snježan Spain to explain the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107894	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament in the text of the final draft of the law, certain differences have arisen as a result of respecting the views made during the first reading of the bill and the reflection of the motions in order to improve the provisions of the final draft law. It is added to the provision that the Agency for Agricultural Land is authorised to access and use data on agricultural land from the records of the body of the state administration, the institution and legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Croatia as well as other public records and the obligation of the Authority to supply the data available to the Agency for the purpose of drawing up annual and multi-annual programmes of the Commission. Instead of the principle of landing of all owners for the purposes of the sale on agricultural land, which is by means of the use of vineyards, orchards, olive groves and ponds, the commission can only be carried out if the majority of the owners agree to it and without their consent if it is cadastrian particles of up to 0,5 hectares. It is complemented by the provision that the consent of the owner of the land is required to make the mortgages which cease to pay the compensation when the previous owner of the property that entered into the commercial cluster has been charged with a mortgage in place of the real estate allocated from the co-owner and, accordingly, the provisions on the content of the statement of a solution on the cost in such a way as not to pay to the owner of the land but to the creditor with the consent of the owner of the land. The provision that the Minister responsible for agriculture is authorised to adopt guidance for the application of the provisions of this law has been amended in a way that has been transferred from the transitional and final provisions to the regulatory part and has been added that the guidance is made to the provisions of this Law on the initiation of the procedure for membership. Provisions on the content of an idea-based comcommissioning project relating to the assessment of the impact of co-operation on biodiversity and landscape diversity have been amended in order to identify clearly which body and in which procedure it makes or conducts an assessment and regulation, i.e. lays down the measures to protect them. A provision on the appointment of the County Commission has been amended in such a way that only the chairman of the commission, his deputy and secretary of the commission, are appointed to the proposal of the central body of the state administration responsible for property legal matters. It is added to the provision under which the Director of the Central Authority of the Administration of Geodetic Affairs Regulations prescribes the performance of the tasks of the performer, the expert geodetic business in the comcommissioning process. A period of one year for the cadastre and the competent courts to implement a legally binding solution has been replaced by a deadline of 6 months and a copy of the powerful solution on the composition is also delivered to the central body of the state administration responsible for determining the sales tax on real estate. It is added to the provision that administrative oversight of the implementation of this law and the rules adopted pursuant to it shall be carried out by the central authorities of the state administration in charge of geodetic affairs, property legal affairs and agriculture. The tax exemption provided for in the Law on Real Estate Taxation has been deleted. The cost of commercial operations will be provided from two sources and these European Rural Development Fund funds under which support is provided for local and regional (regional) self-government units in implementing measures for agricultural land pollution. The second source is also from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Agricultural Land Agency. The adoption of the proposed law and the implementation of the comcommissioning procedure after 30 years would allow for the rounding of holdings and cadastrian particles of agricultural land, the introduction and editing of road and sewerage networks, irrigation, the relief of irrigation in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, and the construction of ownership and other... legal relations on land in order to make more economical use of it and create favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would just like to remind myself of what we exhibited in the first reading, so in the Republic of Croatia there is currently a Law on Cooperation, which was adopted in 1979 and has not changed since 1987. By 1991, according to the state Geodetic Administration, around 822 thousand hectares of agricultural land in the area of 11 units of regional self-government were combined. This was a prerequisite for the establishment of a irrigation system, for the construction of a sewer network and for everything related to flood defence and property legal arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107895	Vesna Scare-Hunge, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107896	Dear Vice President of the House. Dear Deputy Minister, you said it was an existing '79 law. year, it is true and indeed the Croatian Parliament has not passed a new law all these years. However, and I thank you for all those remarks that you have adopted from us MPs in this final proposal. However, I would only point to one provision that, in my opinion, could cause problems of constitutional legal nature. In particular, the Constitutional Court’s decision of 2nd month 2014 concerned exactly the procedure for the compromise where a party’s action was brought which practically complained about a procedure which had not been completed in 22 years. The Constitutional Court has ordered the government to deliver within 3 months, a body to carry out the commission procedure by the end. Now, in the law of Article 75, you say that all those procedures that have begun under the old law will be completed under that same old law. It's just not possible. This is practically a violation of the rule of law. There are no more, nor do the Republic Commission, there are no district courts, there are no municipalities. It is therefore a completely different legal arrangement and cannot be defined in that way by this paragraph 2 in the transitional and final provisions. So certain articles should simply say which articles of the old law apply and which ones do not. Otherwise, these provisions will be unconstitutional to you. It would not be good for us parliamentary deputies to write amendments of this kind, but rather for the government to propose its amendment because it should be a little too serious, or which provisions apply to the old law, which it does not. These provisions cannot apply to which, from Articles 39 to 59, there are officials of the old system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107897	Replication response, Snowy Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107898	I would just like to say that some of you are right, so some citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia are waiting for more than 40 years to resolve their issue of taken away or land related to the commission carried out. It was our intention to resolve the issue of these disputes in the transitional and final provisions. The law was in the first reading, we passed meaning, we adopted all the proposals and opinions, and the Legislative Committee passed, so I don't see any implementation problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107899	Do the wearers want to take a word for it? Chairman of the Agriculture Committee Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107900	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respected deputy minister, respected agency presidents, respected other associates, colleagues and colleagues. ... Debate on the final proposal for a law on agricultural land pollution, P.Z. No. 687. [[You don't understand.]] At the 58th session held on 15 April 2015, the Croatian Parliament's Agriculture Committee discussed the final proposal for a law on the accumulation of agricultural land submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 26 March 2015. The debate on that draft law was carried out by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the law of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, Croatian Agricultural Chamber and Director of the Agricultural Land Agency participated in the debate. The opening argument was made by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the proposing representative, stressing that in the final proposal for a law, the applicant had installed a part of the proposal and the comments made during the debate on the draft law. The debate highlights the concern that the estimated number of 15 workers of the Agricultural Land Agency who will work on agricultural land-composing operations will constitute a limiting factor in the process of combating competition and has been warned of the centralisation of the procedure. The proposer noted that the process of regionalising the activities of the Agricultural Land Agency is under way and that the establishment of branches to be held by the Agricultural Land Agency in the Križevci, Pazin and Slavonski Brod, along with the already existing in Osijek, will provide the basis for the implementation of the process of agricultural land accumulation. It has been warned that the costs of implementing the comcommissioning process will be borne by the county budgets, and taking into account the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act could result in additional problems for the counties. The representative of the Croatian Agronomic Chamber warned that the Land Assessment Committee described Article 39(2) of the final proposal of the law must also include court experts and pointed out the need for professional, termological harmonisation of Article 49(2) of the final proposal of the law in a way that uses the term rounded instead of the term. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, 11 votes for and 1 vote abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107901	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Left-handed fellow Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107902	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister with associates. Right at the beginning, our club will support the adoption of this law and only a few doubts, a few warnings with the fact that of course I have the same opinion as the other laws that we have brought here in Parliament, which are not so bad, are far better than practice. Those who follow that theme know that at a time of communism, at a time of black darkness or redness, it was limited for peasants to have 10 acres of land so as not to create towers. If we had achieved in this capitalist paradise 10 acres a peasant has 10 acres where we would have ended today. Today we would be a country that would export food, which would be self-sufficient. So what was failed to destroy in communism when enough food was produced, when the food was for export we destroyed over the past 25 years and systematically destroy still. For the commission, we finally got the '90s. In the years of our country, we opted for a multi-party, so we got the state in a bloody Liberation War. And what we did in 25 years with one of the strategic industrial branches, which is agriculture. We fall into the ranks of countries, which are Albania, Armenia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, which is slightly better with small farms from 1 to 2 ha. And we are there recorded in EU books as a country that has done almost nothing. For the commission and for agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, Maria Teresa has done far more than any government that has ever known more than we have, especially those who keep their hands on the heart all the time and swear love to the homeland is aware of what Croatia needs, that is, the territory of Croatia. They need agricultural production. We were then exporters of agricultural products from vegetables, fruits to meat that are sought in Vienna markets and were sought for meat from Croatia because it was the best quality. And it's a condition. It's not just what the law says. Compassion is a very complex process. I read the model of East Germany after the 1990s, after the fall of the Berlin Wall that was done in East Germany. And what was done in East Germany, and if we want to do today what they did in East Germany, it's a process that lasts, it's not one-time. It'll probably take decades. After all, we, with the money that I've calculated to be allocated to an agency without EU funds, need 70 years. That means we need 140, 70 would be ideal if with that money that's going to be allocated to the Commassion Agency, it means somewhere 140. And now how successful they are in withdrawing money from the EU, so come on, a hundred years will be. And we'll still be calling in a hundred years, probably Maria Teresa, how successful she was, and we're a failure. I tried to get to the data, and I was also at some agriculture lectures before, so I had some notes. So how big our properties are in Croatia and then I came up with different data, real data. Probably the deputy minister will warn me that I'm wrong and God forbid I'm wrong, but I don't think I am. There's no place to get exactly statistical data, to see exactly how much the average land is. There's data that I got on the official pages which is that 60% of the O.P.G.'s are used with 3 ha of land. So these are the O.P.G.s, that 2.3 properties are larger than 20 ha. That's what the problems are, and 0.93% of the property is more than 50 ha. That's Todorovic and these other smaller Todorovics. In order to make agricultural production more than 5 ha profitable, it is said 5.6 ha would then be worth it. So even the communists weren't so bad at assessing when they allowed 10 ha of land. I'm not just talking about ideology, I'm talking about concrete data. One of the biggest problems certainly will be to talk about this more Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt is the inconsistency of the catastra and land books. I wonder, I know the situation on the island of Cres and when I asked for one land then they said in this land there are 48 people, of which 48 37 is Australia, New Zealand, North and South America. I'd like to hear how these situations will be dealt with. No one wants to do that, no one wants to touch it, except on those islands where the judges attributed it to themselves or to their clients where they're doing pure crime. In the EU, by some data 40% of Croatia actually has 48% of the economy in Europe. These are not only the OPGs, but these are also the smaller ones, who do not have OPGs, and in the EU it is 4ha if all these countries I have read with those regulated countries such as Germany and other countries, the Scandinavian countries. The commission isn't just about rounding up land, so if you have four particles that I know that we owned in Međimurje in four different places that were very small, you need to bring them down to one and someone seems to have a very easy job. With our mentality that should not be forgotten and our bureaucratic practice, and then court practice, it seems impossible for a mission. If we were to succeed with the commission, and the commission is a prerequisite to start seriously planning agriculture, we should have brought a farming strategy in which I had heard before from the deputy minister who mentioned irrigation, and in irrigation we know that we are embarrassingly behind all European countries, that Albania is making us very much into it. The last time I talked about irrigation here in the Croatian Parliament, I said that if we had surfaces that were irrigated then we shouldn't import, and if we didn't have to import then the import lobby wouldn't be so strong, then there wouldn't be those profits profiting from the destruction of the OPGs, the destruction of production, and then the inability to put on the feet of the processing industry. Will the Agricultural Land Agency be able to bring forward idea projects within the range to which this is sought if they are located at 300,000 ha of land of small, narrowed plots. Does it have that power? Is 15 million a year enough for this process? How ready are we to come from European funds, and Europe would certainly give money for, how ready and how teamed are we to withdraw money from European funds and at what rate can we do it? That law certainly cannot provide answers to these questions. That's where we're more warned about the practice of it. Last time I mentioned one case, '86. In the year in Novi Gradiška, land was seized, 10 years of litigation lasted, after which the court was declared incompetent, and then it came into the hands of the Management Board in Gradišca. A man named Danko Alasic has not touched the subject for 18 years. All those in the area were taken away and then built houses on that land. And now we're saying that we're going to do something, and this man's got a positive score, probably among those 8 is a negative assessment of the work of bureaucracy, I'd like to know that someone's explaining to me that in such a Croatian practice we're going to do anything and how we're going to get out of place. A little while ago, the minister said that some of them had been waiting 40 years to get rid of some things, and here some of them got into a conversation under the '79 Communism Law. A year. So then the last change of law was to me in '87. A year. And they went into the process of co-composition and now they're with one foot in the air and now they should say that by passing this law they'll be able to finally complete the process, their children probably or grandchildren because they're already these people and they died if they were older when they started working. With our courts, with our such bureaucracy who guarantees that this will happen? And we here in the Croatian Parliament are not the ones who raise our hands, we make laws. We need to worry about the implementation of these laws, and we need to warn when laws are not implemented. In Osijek-Baranja County, 65 hectares for the commission are scheduled and 30 thousand hectares in Vukovar-Srijem. There are some examples, some countries have given us money for the commission, and these examples also show that we are very capable of playing the donated, donated money, and that the commission that means if it's going to be implemented and the new way means re-examining property, recording property, we will know what we have and where we have today's comatose state because it's very difficult to determine who owns non-processing land. I just said an example from Cres and other islands, but also from Slavonia. Compassion also means preserving the village, which is very important. Communication, so it's not just about three plots coming together. Far deeper is the problem, far greater is the problem, and what he said before, as he said to his colleague Boro Grubisic, when he said that in another topic there might have been a malevolent prophet, I don't think I know whether I'll be among the team in 4 years or 10 years, that he will remember these discussions because I don't think we're in this kind of organization with this kind of agriculture ministry that we have today when we talk about all the important issues from the banks, from the protection of those who have raised loans, from the protection of the workers we're talking about in the election year. All this means is that, without talking about the division, remember the other day we were discussing the division of agricultural land that was made, how much land was divided. And this is very difficult to implement, but in any case, the law is the basis to move on, but I am satisfied by our practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107903	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107904	My dear colleague, you reminded me when you mentioned Maria Teresa and how she did more for Croatia than all of these governments have ever done before. Well, I'd almost agree if it were true. Namely, when you look at when the commission ended one Sweden, Denmark, Poland, so Denmark, and all these Nordic countries in the 18th century, finished their commission. And that's what they've done with a radical commission. Germany finished its commission 50 years ago. Croatia hasn't even started yet. And now I ask you how can a Croatian farmer even deal with a Danish farmer, a German farmer in the EU? He can't, because he doesn't have enough land. They have a standard, a minimum of 20 acres of land. And in Croatia if they have barely 3. Therefore, while we, under this new law that we are about to adopt, are going to go into business for years and years. And unfortunately there will be nothing left of Croatian agriculture. And indeed, as if it were a curse upon this earth that nothing can go the way it should in order to develop the earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107905	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107906	Comrade Scare-Ozbolt, we agree on that. We know who Maria Teresa was, whose keeper she was. There's a solution, we should give it to the Swedes, or we should give it to the Germans for 30 years to give it to us, and then give it back to us, you know, to give it back to us to the land that's done because we're not going to fix it. As much as we swear today, that's where we'll do it because here, when Minister Jakovina talked about the division of land, he said no, it'll be tomorrow. Well, he didn't do anything, he didn't even say sorry, I ran into him, I apologized, I thought I could do it, I can't do it, which is why it wasn't done. We're now passing the Law of Cooperation that is needed but there are no thousands of advances, just what you well know is the harmonisation of land books and catastras. So all predetermined whether or not we have teams. Here in East Germany, it has been transferred that these problems of cohesion have been solved by municipalities, how can our municipalities solve with that budget that they have, how can a 15 million kuna be solved? How can a country that is convulsing in debt and that weighs every month to pay wages in general think about it and we don't have a global plan to solve it? So for a long time, Maria Teresa will be a positive example of how problems in agriculture in Croatia are solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107907	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107908	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, I'd like to agree on a great deal with your exposure. In your presentation, you mentioned the German model, I claim that the painting of no model, was he Slovenian who seemed better than this one. This repainting of the German model to the process and the realization of the cohesion in Croatia would not have done much. Presumption of any composition, you said in part and in your presentation, is not the harmonisation of the cadastra and the land book because both the cadastre and the land book are badly done, but a new cadastrian and geodetic dimension in Croatia, that is an assumption. You, if you match the cadastre and the land book, did nothing because it's an unsettled cadastre and it's an unsettled land book. In Croatia only 3% of the territory, about 100 catastrian municipalities built a new geodetic measurement. It's too small and it can't seriously think about any model of co-operation at all. In 2011, we passed the Law on Legalisation or on the Law on the Law of illegally built buildings where half of the revenue from the state budget was planned to be invested exclusively in the construction of a new cadastre and land book. The project is estimated to cost € 4.5 billion to make new geodetic measurements. much, but when you compare that Croatian citizens pay 6 billion kuna each year to secure their vehicle that is in agreement with me I agree with less value than the property that a single Croatian citizen or company in Croatia has, then we can understand how much it is not. So, 6 billion kunas per year we give insurance companies to ensure one movement as important to us as that vehicle, we own our basic properties, not real estate, we cannot provide in Croatia, 4.5 billion kuna to take care of it. So the commissioning of it is as it is better than none, but the amendments we make will not be done much if we don't solve and the assumption is a new cadastrian measurement in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107909	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107910	Dear colleague Bacic, I agree. I'm the German model because I read German I didn't read Slovenian. I've seen examples but I haven't had time to read everything and I agree. But first of all, all of these experts who have been working on the work of the business say there's no modeling, there's no repainting, you need to take examples, think about these examples and apply in your environment. 'Cause it's a piece of work that should be respected, which is what I said that's very important, and now maybe it's causing some... It is the mentality, the second culture, the third development of the rural area, the development of municipalities, the steps to be taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly you're right, that a new cadastrian and geodetic measurement, and we say something every time we say something that we should do, it says a lot of cost, 4.5 billion, but now you've compared to the insurance of the vehicle that this is actually negligible, so it's long-term and that's assuming that we can move on. Now it's a question of who's going to do it, but it shouldn't be a question of any government, not a single mandate, so we should all agree on that. So both opposition and power because here this is far beyond politics, this must not be politics because this concerns the lives of everyone, the preservation of the village and the real solution to the issues of one of the biggest strategic issues, which is the production of food.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107911	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107912	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Vuksic, we agree, of course, that there are many problems that have generated problems for years, that they have not been solved. We will also not solve everything by this law, we can never solve it with one law. But I agree with you what you said was one basis to actually move on, that something started to happen. You mentioned the same possible abuses or crimes you mentioned in your speech. So I would say the same examples when the city or municipality leaders themselves concluded lease agreements, we have such examples, in which case they were on the one hand the head of the local self-government unit of the municipality or the city and on the other hand they were in the function of the producer. So let's say that's the kind of thing that's happened. Crime. This is exactly the kind of law that can actually end it. It is one introduction of the structure and I agree with you that this is the basis to actually move on with this great problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107913	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107914	Comrade Bonacci, we agree. This is only short on crime, crime is as strong as the system is weak. That's the problem. You remember well on some islands and perhaps even now the court proceedings are going on where there were simply a lot of owners, some other people signed up, built on it, taken away. Can you imagine what happened to the land? It's hard to think at all those people who don't have an heir, old or dead, that land will end up, instead of in a government portfolio, ending up somewhere in some private "in the pockets" means in some private people who signed up. And why is that possible? Because the system is weak, because the system allows bureaucrats to work. I mentioned one example because a man called me, in Nova Gradiška, said 18 years he should have a man do three stores, didn't do, that man should be out of state service in no time. And we're just saying we're not gonna fuck this, we're not gonna do what we're supposed to do... to the lepers, who don't do anything that's ruining the system and all the citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107915	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107916	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I'm listening to these lines and I don't know if you're crying or laughing, so maybe you should laugh. You're talking about giving Maria Teresa or Teresa as it's already called to carry out a commission in Croatia, it's supposed to be given to the Swedish, it's supposed to be given to the Danes, it's got to be given to the Germans, and I say no, let my ex-partners do it. They've been composing everything to themselves. How? Making it clear to the public in private. I have the impression that this law helmets at least one if not two decades for Istrian practice, at least ten years. How's the composition going the Istrian way? Buy first from the municipality or town some station, some house for 10 to maximum 20 thousand marks then, and then surround my property, clearly before that I bring electricity, water, roads, etc. all I need is asphalt and then I buy from the state at a price of 1 to 2 kuna plots 30-ac, 40-ac and you're nice with a round property of 5, 6, 10, 20 or more hectares of equivalent I said 1 to 2 kuna per square metre. So the mayors, the headmasters, the mayors in some areas of the Republic of Croatia carried out an ideal commission. Not to deal with agriculture, but to resell it tomorrow for a million, two or more million euros. That's how it's possible in some areas of the Republic of Croatia. Article 1 refers to the commercialisation of agricultural land under this law being carried out in order to round up properties and cadastrian particles in a more regular manner, etc., etc. It's definitely Article 5. The law which states that the commission can be initiated if, due to the fragmentation and irregular shape of the land, the production which ensures the purpose of the funds invested in the area in which they are being built or where water structures for meliorations are already built, the construction of new transport infrastructures cannot be organised because of the fragmentation and irregular shape of the land, and so on, etc. All is well I would say in this law apostrophe, the problem in the end always comes when it comes to practice. What is certainly good is that the headquarters of this agricultural agency will be in Pazin, which is logical for Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, because Istria has certainly far more agricultural countries owned by state than the neighbouring Primorje-Gorski County. The problem is that the legislator simply cannot predict all situations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The commission will not be launched if it is established that its implementation could worsen the conditions for the agricultural production of the participants of the commission, if the cost of the commissioning would be disproportionate to the benefits expected from the commissioning, if, without simultaneous melioration, they cannot be achieved by satisfactory results in agricultural production and if no prescribed ground protection measures are provided. I'm saying that this law is one of the vitals for Istria County right now because of the practice I'm putting in and doing what can happen down there. There are 130,245 hectares of agricultural land in the Istrian County according to the 2005 summer list. It has 32,480 hectares owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is about 25%. No county in the Republic of Croatia has as much state land as there is in Istria County. What's the reason? The reason is above all the options. Why? Because people were leaving the country, leaving Italy for one reason or another. Italy paid the country war damage to ex Yugoslavia, which is absolutely today state land except 5.236 names or parcels to express myself and these people were to be compensated from the Republic of Italy. Whether they are or not, that problem must be solved clearly in Rome. But the far more important it may be. When I look at this table view of the days of consent to the programmes available in Istria, it should be, but the new law has been passed, so I hope that it will not be sold 9,447 hectares. If they were to add programs that weren't built in Labin, Lanisce,... and Zminja there would be over 10,000 hectares or about 100 million square meters. The lease should go somewhere around 13, 14,000 hectares or should have gone somewhere around 120 million squares and no one would object to renting to keep the country working and not to be in the barracks. However, do not sell the same for 1 to 2 kuna, maximum of 2.22 kuna. If I were to buy this country, I wouldn't tell the farmer blood, speculators need to re-examine the contracts or revise the contracts under which they took over. Otherwise, to say that 1399 hectares were sold on the land of Istria County, of which about 1330 hectares only in the area of Bujština, 3336 hectares were leased, in a long lease it was mostly agricultural, former agricultural combinations that inherited a vine on their parcels so that for one hectare is paid where we have planted a line of about 1200 kuna, that is some equivalent of 20 bottles of bottled wine. Yes, the fundamental question is whether it means it's possible... those who are on one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , an illegal way to come up with something that was not supposed to belong to them by human or God's laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 18 states that the commissioning is carried out in such a way that each participant in the land is given a new land, which is covered by a combination of new land in as few particles as possible, in equal value in the deduction of land value for the general needs and common needs of the settlement. It's not a harmless procedure, it's not easy to take someone under quotes, give someone else even if it's here and replace them. Article 29 speaks of an idea project which must contain that I am not now quoting for the sake of time. A Article 30. that, prior to the commencement of the proceedings, the agencies shall convene a meeting of owners of the owners, land, etc., local self-government etc. Now the question is whether this will be possible in Croatia. By the model Maria Teresa, that German, Slovenian, someone mentioned Sweden or I don't know which one. I said that even the most fragmented parcels are probably due to the amount of land they own in the state property in Istria. I said Istria has 25% of state land in its space. Why did I say that because of the options? 140 thousand people of about 186,000 left Croatia leave Istria alone. 140 thousand go the way of Italy, I don't count those who left and left Slovenia. And why are people in '47? i.e. on the Upper Bujština Zone B went away in '54. That's what we can discuss. Some because of fear, some because of nationalization, some because of war primitives, some because of politics we all go, we all come back. The fact is that that time without television, radio, cell phones, it doesn't matter what space has left all the pops that are... In Italian, and clearly that was a message I don't know of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many left because nationalization was simply carried out and could not stay there anymore. What is the fundamental question of who will control these in the county that should now carry out these proceedings. Will the DORH do that? He won't. That's one thing, I don't know a pair of bodies that works on a remote at least where I live. And again I'm going to say imagine this space, so you control the media, you control the public money, you hire the PR agencies of that famous Macan Manjgur, the gener who works with him, and then everything is just possible, it just goes so easily. That's who's just gonna control it. The agencies won't be able, they won't be able to control the DORH either because they're often accomplices in all of this, and they're the main culprit of why this unprecedented robbery of agricultural land occurred on the lstria County. Two years after he was, the Law prohibiting the sale of agricultural land entered into force, individuals are elegantly, with the opinion of the DORH, books on land they have intended or have taken over. Article 37(3) here states that the President, members of the commission and their deputies are to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the property legal proceedings. The County Commission shall publish a review plan, the position of the road channel network on public insight for 15 days on the advertising board, etc., etc. What's going to be of this combination in some places is simply going to be seen. But the fact is that neither this government nor this former government has shown itself. Article 71 discusses the costs of the commission relating to the design of the programme, the idea solution, the implementation of expert geodetics, land assessment, construction, plantation, etc., the establishment of property legal status on land, the costs of the County Commission, the State Consummation Commission, the Committee of Co-operation Participants. And then the same question is who will simply be able to pay for it the next day. What I just want to make this law that is a good law, because we have to go in the direction of membership and I don't think anyone will argue with it means to allow a fair procedure for this law to outlive it, not only this assembly assembly that will vote it but also some future assembly of parliaments. So that he doesn't favor anyone with one word, and he doesn't discriminate against anyone. And to simply find these mechanisms to monitor individual behaviors because in every way I express myself, there is a possibility that can be used. The commission must be one of the most important procedures, if not the most risky procedures. I'm looking at Istria again, my father has 25 parcels, Warko of Kajina 30, Ivan of Kajina 18. It's simple and it's a way of life, and it's certain that we'll keep what we think is our own, and I don't know who's going to make us go through this kind of thing if we don't really find some interests. Property like someone said is small in Croatia, should be rounded up, not forcefully. Clearly, this law does not speak of force. Let the state round up its own, but not let those who run municipalities, cities, counties simply turn others into their own. And so it turns out that in the last 10 or 20 years, only those who were able to turn something public into private by 1 or 2 kuna per square.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107917	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107918	Thank you. Well, colleague Cain, what you mention in Istria in the context of networking the PR agency's influence, inability to function in the local judiciary, as well as various corrupt, semi-corruption or very strange interactions in which our local environments are actually becoming quite unhealthy, I think that to a good extent, in fact, objectively speaking, it can be mirrored throughout Croatia. You of course feel it more in Istria where you are, in which you live, but make sure Istria is not a separate island, unfortunately. It's less or less our whole country, and we don't find ourselves as a society or as a government, which, through institutions, we don't really find the strength to actually try these things to finally get rid of, better set up, edit and make our country so that we can actually be prouder of it, that it works better in the interests of our citizens. Unfortunately. The only difference is with you in Istria which is actually this agricultural land in the re-uses unmistakably gains at higher value, so there are then amounts that are actually much larger, so they are probably more interesting... much stronger than in some other areas, especially continental Croatia. But these models and this mode of operation, I'm afraid, unfortunately, is actually an image and opportunity of how the whole of Croatia works, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107919	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107920	Yes, nothing in Istria is patented to be honest, but perhaps it's just copied from some other parts, not as much of the Republic of Croatia as our neighbouring countries. I know very well who the teachers were, Kulterer, Stridiger, Galan, it's one team that's all over the prisons in Italy or Austria now, and everyone under the quote has witnessed friends of the County of Istrian County who received the golden coat of arms of the County of Istria and so on. And I'm surprised that even Mr. Macan who runs that one PR agency... along with Mr. Genner or this one works with him, doesn't matter, that's the team, doesn't get the golden coat of arms of the County of Istria soon to contribute to their PR agency on this robbery that's happening in the Istrian spaces. Otherwise, I'd like to say that there are 15 million kunas of public money in Istria for the media. I don't even mind having them followed, but then these media outlets have to be open to everyone. In Istria, our mayors, mayors, mayors, work with almost 15 PR agencies. It is not anywhere in Croatia, so it is exclusively the practice of the County of Istria. It is stolen in every way possible, from the utility companies further and someone must simply put an end to this practice. It would also be interesting to see what this PR agency... was doing visibly Austrian... Raiffeisen banks that have well robbed the Republic of Croatia and brought more than 2 billion euros out of Croatia only so far. No one to put an end to that practice. If by any chance what was happening in Istria in other parts of the PR agencies, everyone would have had a bad time. What Fimi Media was doing was a nice mother to what's been done in Istria and working for the bought DORH, nothing's going to happen to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107921	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107922	I thank you and welcome the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Spanish, with my associates. As in our first reading, in this final text, we will also state the position of our club and our party regarding the Law of Cooperation. Of course, listening to the debates of the predecessors and dealing with some of this very complex problem, which is even more complex than the very nomotechnical appearance of this legislative proposal, we are guided by dual thinking. So on the one hand, we absolutely support the process of compromise, I think that the state is after the fact that the last commission was carried out years ago under the law of '79. when it was mainly about the interest of the combinations then, the rounding of combinations and the management and the type of policy and the fact that it was said that around Croatia today the OPGs are working on average on 15 particles, products on 15 particles and that the average household has about 3 hectares of land in its possession. Therefore, these are enough reasons to say this kind of data are alarming and this is not how we compete in the EU. Therefore, we must do these strategic procedures and start to reorganise agricultural production, we have also talked about this in previous texts about the Law on Agriculture, Agricultural Land, etc. etc. And secondly, our opinion is that when I list certain problems or life situations that meet a certain category of landowners, we will see that this law is quite inconclusive, difficult to implement, and this process of membership will take quite a long time, according to our assessment. For a long, long time we'll be dealing with this problem. I also think that if it can be implemented that will be implemented in a partial manner, almost regionally on certain parts of the Republic, it will be implemented soon, and in certain parts of the Republic it will not be possible for many years to implement it. And I'm afraid it's not meant to be. So, I support the ministry in the initiative to pass a legal framework on the implementation of the commission as a first step. However, as the French lar lar said, not to be just artificially because of art, or because of the law as we had a warehouse one failed project, as we had a stock exchange of agricultural products as a failed project, that this would not be just one good initiative that has a number of life obstacles in life. I'll say some things. So, the fact is that the commissions refer to the areas, that it will be easier to implement in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, which has an obligation to combine somewhere around 64 thousand hectares, Vukovar-Srijemska 30, Virovitica-Podravska County somewhere around 26,000 hectares of co-operation, etc. And the fact that in these counties there are realistic assumptions that this is done because there is arranged as many arranged grants and follow-up services through a catastran, or through an operat catastrian. And it's gonna be fun. But when we compete with the other parts, the question is how are we going to do it in one person, how are we going to do it in Dalmatia and not count it anymore. I'll also say the arguments that make me doubt it's enforceable. As for the costs themselves, we were skeptical in the first reading because we had no defined fact on which the burden would be applied. If this is what Mrs. Spain has said now, and I don't doubt that it hasn't, so you've made an improvement in the sense that you've defined the costs of the commission will be carried out through, it will be financed through European funds in part, and the other part through the reserved funds in the Republic budget, which is, of course, acceptable to us. It would not be good for that burden to be reduced to a unit of local, regional self-government. I'm going to remind the unit of local self-government of five hundred how many of them we have, according to the data, almost 50% or 220 are below their own existential minimum, and I can't service myself financially. And it would be a great burden if the commitments, the costs, so from Article 72, I don't repeat them here if they fall on the burden of regional self-government, then this is a completely missed project. So, it's good if it's going to be fund-raiser money, although I'm asking if we have to before if we know how the funds operate in front of finance this whole operation, and then we just charge for it. If that's it, if that's the model then again there's a suspicion of whether it's going to be an effective commission. The fact is that all the burden of this project was put on the Agricultural Land Agency. We are also in previous legal texts where it is spoken in the first person of the single agency, the agency, the agency, asked whether these agencies were encapsulated to deal with all these affairs, and now even with the project of communication. Because it's not just that we're carrying out a commission as a kind of administrative procedure right now, but you've given them the task of dealing with the 28th agency here so I don't have to list but very interesting projects. They have to prepare complete logistics, so complete data to implement a certain one. So, did they, I doubt that with the best will probably the people in the agencies are doing their job quality. But I think in addition to what we give them every day, every day's commitments from the agriculture sector, I think this will be a narrow throat to carry out the comms. We said it the last time, and now we're saying there's no good co-operation as long as the rest of the ministries, the rest of the executive authorities in the country don't do their job, and that's not the middle of the cadastre, and they don't fix the garnery. Gruntovnica is an elemental thing. It's the principle of trust in ownership, which we've learned, and technically it's based on a catastrian operative who, by reconnaissance on the ground, determines the actual state. Therefore, if we have the condition we have, and we have often observed that we have not implemented the reform of land books, that we have not spent the construction of the catastra after 25 years. We have the fact that only 5 and a half percent of the surface of the Republic of Croatia is gruntingly arranged, recorded completely. For 219 municipalities today there are no established land books, and 64 municipalities are in the process of rebuilding or new formation of land books. That's terrible data. It means that in half of the local self-government, we don't have organized land books in 2015, or the fact of the truthfulness of the registration of property. We have more, I could name more drastic examples here in Karlovac County, in the municipality of Ogulin, Drežnica, Dubrava, etc. where since '95. No land books were formed at all, so they were burned, destroyed and not restored to this day. So what kind of process of cohesion are we talking about in the area of these municipalities? How will a country where we don't have the original document, the foundation, the legal basis of ownership? I could mention Vrlika here, where we haven't formed a land book since World War II. The next problem we see on the ground that will in any case make it difficult for the process of cohesion is the usurpation of the country. I often spoke, and I spoke in vain because it was obviously a vain business fact, I pointed to the fact that the state signed on to the mass of private property as the owner. People aren't here, they're not back, people can't come back for a variety of reasons, they've been signed up by the state or transferred property to their advantage. And we have a situation today in Lica, in the hinterland of Zadar, where the owners were a few hundred years of a particular family, they are not there today. And that land is now registered for the benefit of the state, owned by the state. How will we deal with such one property, how will we carry out the commission when Article 55 of this bill clearly states that the legal basis for the sharing of property was found at the moment of the start of the commission. Will it enter into the legal truthfulness of the ownership of a commission or bodies involved in the conflict? Will they question that? Is that their legal authority? Or should the property be completely clean before the comcommissioning process? So, I'm not saying this out of intent to say that you haven't properly regulated this matter legally, but to show you what the following problems are and which are no longer so accompanying, they're a fundamental obstacle to the implementation of this law. Because you need to put pressure on your colleagues in the executive power on the subordination line to remove such legal ambiguity as soon as possible. And there's a way to do it. I can also say that an example of Straight Wheels where the first commission was in favour of combinations made in the 1960s and then the country's owners in exchange got a country of poorer quality and without ownership sheets. For the first time, the state took the country in favour of the combinations, did not give them the property paper, so they were not entered into the land they received as a replacement, they were not able to sign up because they were not given the opportunity to register pure property. How are they going to co-operate, participate in this second piece now? Will these people be punished twice, first time then and second time now because someone didn't do their job. So how are we going to do these legal assumptions and misunderstandings? That is probably not an answer you can give but colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, but you must give the initiation in the interest of implementing your law, I repeat again by the system of some executive subordination, that your colleagues remove this legal uncertainty as soon as possible. That's what I'm trying to say, and I think it's one of the key things in our opinion and from our perspective to carry out the commission. We also think that the land available programme is unsettled and the question is how we will carry out the commission with the fact that we have a land-supply programme, and we cannot yet dispose of the land that we bought under that programme. Because some will pay 20 years, they have a restraining order, how we're going to put into legal traffic, that's what the definition in the notebook says about how we're going to put in legal traffic then real estate, because the kind of commissioning if it's a transaction is some kind of legal traffic. How are we going to end this, and we know that we've got hundreds of thousands of acres through the available program. So these are some things that we see as an objective and realistic obstacle to the commission that we think is necessary to carry out, so we absolutely think that we should do it and it will take a long time. It's probably gonna cost a lot, a lot more than we're projecting now. I don't think we're aware of the cost of the commission. This requires one team of experts on the ground, these are long-term procedures and settlements, extraditions, fair fees. We haven't touched the category of fair compensation. What does fair compensation mean, what are the criteria for determining the fair compensation for someone taken away from the land and assigned, attached to someone else from that gromada? So the fair fee here is just like a legal term. However, it would be very interesting to see what are the criteria for determining fair compensation. Because in this matter of cohesion, we have a logic in which, on the one hand, it is filled with general, therefore the state interest to round up certain parcels and on the other hand, the user of the plot to be taken away from that particle to be satisfied or to have a feeling that in this business he is also a good party, i.e. a good participant, that there is no illusion of expropriation when someone is taken away in the greater interest and the man remains deprived. So it would be good to define the basic thing, and that's a fair fee as some exact category by some document. And in conclusion, I agree with my colleague, Škare-Ozbolt, that Article 75 is completely inconclusive in formal law terms for the reason she said, and can probably be elaborated and slightly wider. We have no choice but to accept this legal text because of the logic that the commission must be carried out. And if this is some first initial framework, we agree, but we warn that this framework is very questionable when it comes to its real conductivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107923	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107924	Thank you. You were talking about enrolling land for the benefit of the state and the practice that happened that the owner was not or at some point and that the state was enrolling in that land for its own benefit and that it was about people who worked for generations on that land. I would really just like to expand that this writing practice was happening for the owners who were, therefore, not only to those you targeted, I think it refers to all the owners because this is actually about the large areas as far as I know in Lika and Dalmatia Zagora, which is the state, where the owners actually worked on this land for generations, were enrolled in the cadastre but never in the garland for various reasons and where the state actually, in recent years, simply many of these particles have mass-involved actually, I think of the Croatian forests that they have recorded it to a large extent. So many of these owners are there. The problem of these people was, they were small particles, they were to oppose at all what the state had done they had to actually pay great costs and go into geodetic measurements, in lawsuits and so forth. They simply had no financial means or opportunities, many of these people going into it, simply playing or eventually making objections simply out of the inability to oppose it. And in these areas, actually, land books are never even arranged. I think that practice, I just wanted to actually expand the subject, that it's actually very wide and that I don't know what the surface area is now, but I think it was about tens of thousands of acres of space like and Dalmatian burning what I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107925	Thank you. My colleague Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107926	I thank you, dear colleague, for in some way supporting me in this work, because I have, on several occasions, just apostrophe of this one life's torment, which is the fact that you are the owner of something and you cannot be the owner, you can't sign in, and now, at the end of the day, you're state, you come to the garland, and you see that in the last 20 years on your particle you've signed in to the state. You have an even worse fact, the thing goes even further, that in some cases the country registered for the benefit of the state in this programme gave even to third parties who use it and on the basis of this use received from the state incentives,... Jurisdictions as if they were neat, peaceful owners and users of the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Actually, they're formal-legal usurpers. And that's what we said, we also told the DOJ, etc. And everything remains that, that's how it is, we understand it but it's a process that can be difficult to solve. We need to explain to people how we can allow in a regulated state that their country is no longer their country and that's the whole point. And it's not a small number, it's about tens, hundreds, thousands of acres, I'm not going to be pathetic but one big part of the region, there's that part of Like and one part of the Zadar hinterland living with that fact. And we as a society have to work to make it right if we think, because everything that goes wrong later is difficult to correct. So here we come to work so we want to do a piece of work and we haven't done this before because it's been hard for us to sort out the first step, and that's the one. If we had arranged this, it would have been much easier to implement this project today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107927	Branko the Hill of Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Horvat, were you referring to landowners who still live there or those who have never returned? It's a double thought. If there was a land copying there as well as a colleague Đurovic just before, and it was that the state's attorney's office prescribed entire deposits and city land, and agricultural land, and owned there is a lot of it, but whether here, are you talking purely about people who have never returned and in fact made it impossible to make available to agricultural land that still has to be above this work, not owned but at their disposal, or are you talking about people who therefore live there. In my court, the state must find a solution and legal frameworks to process each piece of agricultural land. If a 20-year-old person does not live here, if not, if that area is a healed state, he must find a way to bring the country into service and give it to someone else for use if he does not have a owner. Because agricultural land is something above ordinary land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107929	Thank you. My colleague Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107930	Dear colleague Hrg, you have opened several topics here to discuss. But I'll cut it short. So it's about people who were residents of a particular area, so the citizens who left after the Storm, meanwhile the state signed up as their property, meanwhile local self-government divided the country through a programme of availability, eventually those people returned and found themselves in the garter. They're no longer the owners of something they owned or more 15 years ago, etc. So, it's... The one we're warning about and we think he can get rid of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let the state return by simply enrolling people who can prove their previous property if there is a will. I'm afraid there's no will for it, and that's why we've welcomed a project of unsettled cooperation, with holes in a garland owned. That's what I'm talking about. Another thing, when it comes to raw land, we absolutely support the fact that every piece of land needs to be processed. And it wouldn't be good for her to be in the parlogus, but we have a problem here that we haven't talked about being punished, people who don't bring the country into culture. But what are we going to do with the fact that 462,000 acres is not available to anyone? Is that a state parloge? The state keeps it in the parlogum, hold it. Here's a 730 thousand available through the agency for this APZ through the paying agency 273,000, and 465 hasn't been given yet, and we're going to punish some poor guy who still hasn't made it back to the hectare and by country he's in the parlogus and we're going to charge him 50 thousand kuna fines. Is that a logic? And here we have half a million acres that we don't know why it's not available, given to someone. Let it be given and Todorovic just let it be done, let it not be... and then we will punish the small individual on the other hand because he did not know, could, had money, will, etc. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107931	Thank you. Nevenka Becic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, I would only take the opportunity to remind you of the fact that the practice and continuity of taking away other people's private property in this society is just a continuation of the practice that was present during the communist rule, so during the former state. And I would remind you of the fact that, during that period, private people were kidnapped not only by land but also by entire buildings, businesses, apartments, etc. It's been more than 20 years since the Republic of Croatia's independence, and it hasn't found a way to get it back. It is reduced under the denominator and under the name of confiscation, nationalisation, expropriation, etc. We bear witness to the fact that the European Court of Human Rights rulings require the Croatian government to address the problem. So we have a case of private housing owners who have never been taken but who are possessed by a violent path and that the Government does not solve this problem, although in this House it is said that during April it will be in the debate of the amendments and additions to the Law on Renting of Apartments that will solve this problem, to date we have not established such a item of the agenda. I would also remind myself that human rights are being violated by the owners of these apartments because, if property is limited for some reason, the basis of the Constitution and the basis of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights ratified by this Assembly should at least be given to such owners the market value of the lease. Not that the market value of the lease has not been established but their rental is 2,70 kuna per metre square. Shame on this country and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107933	Thank you. My colleague Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107934	My dear colleague, I could talk a little bit longer than the space for this replica, because it's a bit more complex and complex. I'm glad you opened it probably should be a special topic and there'd be strange things about what was going on. What you said to the communist government was taken away, we in Baranja and Slavonia were under the considerable impact of such a state ideology that the towers were "abstained", and at that time were being given large systems, peasant cooperatives, a large combination which may have been at first and been painful for people amongst other things and for me in the family. But later it turned out that it was... a social point of view and useful because we became good commodity producers of agricultural production, a colleague used to speak, pull a parallel yet at that time we were exporters of agricultural products unlike today when, with billions of investments, we were large importers of agricultural products. As it was unfair to take away both unfairly and unfairly today's situation when in a modern democratic state it reaches out for someone else's property. It's something we can't accept and I think that the anomaly of our legal system has to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107935	Thank you. Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you were talking about the disorderly state of land books and catastras, that's correct. But if we're gonna wait for that situation to be settled first, and then he's gonna go into business, I don't think we're gonna do a good job. In Croatia, you have 20 million cadastar particles per 4.5 million inhabitants. In a good part of Dalmatia, you still have the Italian government registered on the plots, so you are now being torn apart by feudal-agricultural relations in the 21st century in Croatia. There in Slavonia where you are in railway lines you are registered with more Yugoslav railways, not Croatian, not natural persons, but Yugoslav railways, that we are not talking about old institutes that are registered on about 1/3 of the land in Croatia because the state of Croatia did not sign up for property, so it does not care well enough about its ownership, let alone the ownership of natural persons. And these are all the problems that exist today, and if we wait to get rid of it all, and then we're just starting to carry out the commission, believe me, we're not going to have any farmers in this country because none of them are going to be able to deal with the European farmer because they have a minimum of 20 acres of land, and we have over 50% of the population, and we don't have three acres of what we're talking about. So you need to work parallel. And this proposal of the Cooperation Act is good, for the first time it's good, but the question is what we've been waiting for since '79 to bring it to the final term in the last year of this government. So through this process that this Law on COMMASSATION offers, it can go parallel because these bodies can practically speed up solving these problems that I've been telling you about. But I agree with you because you heard well when you said 3,000 kuna per hectare for the cost of the commission won't be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107937	Thank you, colleague Ozbolt. My colleague Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107938	Thank you, dear colleague Ozbolt. You've detected the whole problem well. I said that we support this law, the Ministry's approach to defining this project, which is called "commassion," there is a need for membership. According to us, the commission can be carried out in one part of the Republic of Croatia, these Slavonian counties where there is an orderly and land-book and cadastrian..., so there is a legal basis for this implementation, right? But then we said that in the other part it would be a little harder and slower until some other ministries removed these shortcomings. If the data says that we only have 5.5% of the granted territory, then the alarming state, then here's the information that says that 219 units of local self-government are not covered by an orderly grant. That says the data, I may be, here, lying to the data, lying to me. But it's also more and it's 30% and it's alarming. And it's 40%, and it's not good because in the last 20 years, we've had to fix the garter. A colleague told by Maria Teresa, of course she worked here long before. Here I ask the question of how we are going to carry out a commission on land communities, the problem of land communities in the Republic of Croatia is opening up. How we will resolve the property relations of the country's return to land communities and how we will involve them in the process of cohesion. This proposal was clearly not foreseen by that fact in its legal text that it would be obliged to take care of the land communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107939	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Vice President Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107940	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supported this law and in the first reading, of course we will support it in the second. But we want to say a few sentences about the very process of cohesion and its value. So in addition to the Agriculture Act and the Agricultural Land Act, this is the most important legislative act in the area of agriculture because it regulates the most complex measure of land regulation and, as such, it actually means raising the value of the land itself. Good agricultural policy cannot be conducted without good land policy as the basic assumptions of rational production. Komasation is a very complex interdisciplinary agrotechnical measure, which is not only a rounding of parcels, but also a editing of space, it's also a editing of land books about what we here and through first and second readings actually have the most observations or skeptics. This agrotechnical measure in Croatia has not been implemented for more than 2 decades. And law-making actually provides a basic assumption of implementation, which in real terms also means use, national policy, the use of agricultural land, and the rationalisation of agricultural production. In Croatia, the property structure of agricultural land is very unfavourable by the size of the property and it is actually one of the worse factors for rational and income production because 8% of the owners own below 5 hectares of land that is even split into more parcels. We therefore again warn that the rounding of parcels will not produce long-term results unless, in this sense, the Law on ownership and other real rights and the Law on Inheritance and the cleavage of parcels are changed. Here we can use, for me there is the most appropriate experience of France and in terms of the non-cleavage of already formed parcels, as well as the use of land, or the way land is arranged that is not used. Maybe a little rigorous for our terms, but it's effective. The positive sides of the co-massation other than the rounding of parcels are actually land and space through the construction of the municipal and travel network, through the rational possibility of building a irrigation system, which is also a very neglected measure. It is the creation of land books, which then speeds up the investment process but also has an effect on the adoption of spatial plans. Production costs are reduced in order to reduce the empty walk and thus increase fixed costs in the processing of agricultural land. The transport of agricultural land is increasing as part of small parcel owners have a higher ability to sell in the process of commercialisation than when such a procedure is not being carried out in the Catastrian municipality. The specific advantage in today's conditions is the use of Rural Development Fund funds to finance the cost of cost-of-communication freeing participants of high financial expenditures. The Law on the Cohesion of Agricultural Lands provides an institutional, legal and technical framework for the fielding of land that will contribute to the sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas, will support the development of a national agricultural crop policy. If you remember a few years ago, we also brought a strategy for rounding up the land, we did seem to be five catastrian municipalities piloting a comcommissioning programme, however, beyond that unfortunately we did not leave. The combined land is also assumed for other agrotechnical measures, especially for irrigation and disposal but also for the development of municipal and economic infrastructure, because the process provides land for these purposes as well. The proposal for a law provides for a commission to be implemented on the basis of multiannual programmes developed by the Agency for Agricultural Land and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Article 3 provides that a commission of interest for the Republic of Croatia is, in accordance with the constitutional provision on agricultural land as good as national interest. However, the economic interest of the participants of the land and of the owners of the land should also be taken into account, as well as the local communities, which must have an opportunity to influence the development of the comcommissioning programme as individual and as local interest. The Agency for Agricultural Lands has a responsibility in the preparation of the comcommissioning process, but in the implementation process, we estimate that very active local communities must be involved because experience suggests that they communicate more easily and efficiently with the participants of the land. In particular, we point out that the law elaborates on the process of opening and implementing the process of compromise and can be applied directly, without the regulations implemented, which we assess very well. During the debate in the first reading, the problem was often highlighted and through these several discussions so far unregulated ownership, or land books, as a reason for noncommunication. On the contrary, the commission has one of the measures to regulate ownership, which is defined here in Articles 11 to 13. But here I want to say that we have to create such a climate that owners regulate their ownership relations and their ownership rights, and if necessary with such regulation, that is to say, how to regulate or determine the real owners changes some other laws, such as. The law on land books needs to be done. It is important to have a state project under the Rural Development Programme, as the European Fund plans to use the means of cohesion for now-planned 280 000 hectares of agricultural land with an estimated value of 840 million kuna. By 2020, 90 000 hectares of land worth around 270 million kuna are planned. The implementation of this project is therefore important also in terms of the use of the European Rural Development Fund. It has been warned here that it will probably need before withdrawing those funds to provide certain means of payment in advance. It is also in this sense that the HBOR policy, which is now dominantly going to make sure that the projects that are related to the European Union funds and in terms of state and local communities, as well as private investments, are being financially monitored. We can only conclude that this law should have been passed earlier because we would already have some positive results. In the second reading of the law, some nomotechnical, but also qualitative changes and additions have been made, and we estimate that this is good, and if there are still provisions that need to be intervened in the law implementation itself, it is always possible to do so. And in the end, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107941	Thank you. We have one replica, Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107942	Dear colleague Zgrebec, it was high time to move into passing one of these laws. You mentioned what we said in the first reading, and what more MPs mentioned today, the problems of unsettled land books, the problems of ownership. You also mentioned that Articles 12 and 13 mentions the regulation of real owners, however, raises the question of all other laws that should be consummated by this law, so we must go seriously into considering all that concerns the owner's behaviour towards his land and enrolling him as such, and it is huge costs. The example works, a city or municipality that has a surface of about 100 to 120 km2 the construction of land books is estimated at around 40 million kunas. So local self-government units in that part can't finance it themselves. Processes last years, from photogrammetric images, from field markings, from geodetic services, after all, from taking care of all land books. So here we are talking about a law that is well-designed, which should have been passed much earlier, but also a law that will definitely have to have a subport in many other laws to make it much more successful and much better. We're also talking about, you said, and you mentioned that the participants of the commission are free of high costs. Maybe that in one small part, but these costs no matter who paid them because they are paid from the budget of the local self-government units, paid from the state budget, are again the costs of our citizens. So the costs are enormously large, and not to mention the state of the grant books, someone mentioned it here, and in the data these materials show, which is what the percentage is now solved land books and real owners about. We have registered owners who died 70 years ago, and it will require a huge work and year, years to fix that condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107943	Time. Thank you. Replication response, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107944	I can only conclude that in many things we agree and see the same problems. There really was a long time when people didn't care, they did land, they lived in houses, but they didn't run it through land books, and today it's a huge problem, but it's also related to certain financial costs. When you say it all will be paid if you pay out of the budget, it's on the burden of the citizens. But when you pay something out of the budget, it's solidarity. The budget will be paid out of those funds that we will all be paying, and only one group of people who will be in the process will benefit. And I don't think that's supposed to create a problem for us. ... The problem is that when we come up with these problems of a systematic nature, then we delay the start of solutions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's start working this out. If it turns out that we need to change some more laws, even that law itself, we do it, let's not delay the problem that we all see, we all know who they are, we just delay their solution. And I wish we were when we passed the Agricultural Land Act in '91. years, when the country's social property was state-owned, then the state signed up as a state to that land. Look in the land books everything the state has today is being held as social property, not as state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107945	Thank you. On behalf of DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformists Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107946	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The effects of land pollution on the success of agricultural production are high. In our opinion, too, one of the main factors of the uneconomy of existing Croatian agriculture. I'll remind you, we're colleague Zgrebec reminded her of the '91 Agricultural Land Act. A year. I will remind of the adopted Agriculture and Fisheries Development Strategy of 2002 when we gave the family economies a practical headquarters. It was one big turn in agricultural policy and we put it at the heart of all the agricultural policy developments of the family agricultural economies and their future. It was in 2002, it's 2015. That's when we talked about rounding up, about increasing the land. Here's 13 years past the O.P.G.'s down, and we haven't circled the land, and that's the problem. And compared to the EU, our agricultural economies are approximately six times smaller with the trend of increasing agricultural economies and with us, the trend is either even decreasing. According to some lists, more than 75% of agricultural holdings have less than 3 ha, and only 4.8 have more than 10 ha of farmland, with those 4.8 not being competitive in terms of the EU's agricultural economies. Therefore, the final rounding of agricultural areas is a condition without which it cannot continue to operate in serious agriculture. The current state of village and rural development is definitely not attractive to young people. It was interesting and pleasant to see these days in the newspaper some young farmers who began to produce very brave and ambitious and it works very well, but these young farmers really need not only to encourage but also to enable them to increase and reach a working area so that they can increase production. Other countries do it neatly. When you look at Italy, every little bit of you have ads that it's very good and successful to be a farmer. Especially those campaigns go for young people. In Croatia, however, what you will offer a young man, what you will offer him half a hectare of the country. It's practically not going to work, you're going to turn it into a social category. So, the advantage of this law, which is an absolute condition without which it cannot go any further, is the implementation of land-composing, which will solve more current land-related problems, not just land-separation. That's the primary goal, but it's getting rid of not only the circle, we've already said, and property-legal relations will be settled on land. The final issue of land depletion will be resolved, the economics of agricultural production will be resolved. It will finally come to the alignment of cadastres and land books. In some ways, the issue of nursing households will be resolved, as the future of nursing households will have to finally be resolved. The needs of irrigation and disposal will also be regulated, land needs for general needs, the need for new digital geodetic plans, the need to arrange space, the need to protect the environment, the need to build agricultural infrastructure facilities and, of course, the process of maintaining the catastras. So these are all the advantages this law will bring. In our opinion, it would be best to carry out the comcommissioning process not when the land books are solved but should be dealt with in parallel. But the best thing would be to do them after building and adopting spatial county and municipal plans. And then you have a commercial project that has all the elements that you need to create a picture of an orderly country. So, the commercial project in this case has a water-based part, therefore, of editing surface and underground waters. The traffic section shows new networks of economic roads and other infrastructure facilities, has its own urban part. This refers to the construction and rehabilitation of rural settlements, street regulation, the formation of economic courtyards and new construction sites. The agricultural part relating to the purpose of agricultural areas, the forestry part relating to the regulation and protection of forest surfaces and roads, the construction part relating to the separation of areas for the construction of agricultural facilities, the geodetic part which, of course, refers to the change of existing conditions prior to the commercialisation and transfer of project production plates and particles to the field and the production of cadastrian elaborates after the land has been commercialized. This is, for example, the only condition that should be rejected before the commercial process itself is the regulation of spatial plans. And now something about what I was talking about before, which is that I definitely think that these transitional and final provisions should be specified because the Law on Cooperation was passed in '79. A year. He practically since the '90s. the year is not applicable at all. So he wasn't even cursingly abolished but he stopped using it. And the attempt of the one that is now put into this final bill is therefore an attempt to continue the completion of the procedures that have been initiated to confront us first and foremost with the problem of the practical possibility of applying the existing situation at all. There are no longer any central cohesion clusters, there is no such thing as property legal category, the land needed to assign more members of the commission as possible free land are state-owned, no longer social property. The existing law, this old law speaks of social property, talks about republican commissions, talks about the Socialist Parliament. I simply think that such a provision must not remain because I repeat the applicable law does not comply with the constitutional principle of the rule of law referred to in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and our existing legal system. Therefore, our club will propose an amendment, whether you accept it or not, but we suggest to the Government that it simply bring an amendment which will accurately specify which provisions of the old law can be applied and which it does not. I don't think one-two-third of those provisions can apply at all to the completion of the procedures that have been initiated before the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107947	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Peter Baranovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Ozbolt, you have noted very well that in the strategic documents, too, it is now possible to say the long-deserved apostrophe of the importance of rounding up land to strengthen the agricultural sector, and that the OPGs are then listed in these strategic documents as key holders of the development of Croatian agriculture and the increase of agricultural production. You also presented the exact fact that the average agricultural area is owned by the OPG in Croatia among the lowest in Europe. And it has been since 12, 13 years in which this same Parliament's decision, the Croatian Parliament, proposed by the executive authorities in the Croatian agricultural sector, has pumped tens of billions of kunas, although it was quite clear that, based on the basic principles of agroeconomics, it is not possible on such low and fragmented areas to achieve competitive production. And for 12 years this country has been pumping billions of kunas knowing that no fundamental assumptions have been created... be competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is it possible that no one thought to direct these people through the normation of incentives? And finally, what interests me is that you think, as an expert in this area, that it can be achieved in raising the efficiency of the work of the catastra and the landowners, given that through all the discussions, as well as reading this topic, this problem of inefficiency, the slowness in solving property-legal relations has been being imposed as a major obstacle for years, and that in this area which is important not only to address the situation in agriculture and the specific topic of the cohesion of agricultural land, but generally in the Croatian economy, it is being imposed as one of the key problems. What do you suggest you can do to make those two institutions do... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107949	Thank you. Next replica... You picked it up, you asked for it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm just asking you to raise the plate more clearly. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107950	Dear colleague Baranovic, you are a lot of topics. At this point, no Croatian farmer can compete with any EU farmer because it is not sufficiently supplied with land and thus with production, thus and with the capacity to be competitive. And we have practically thrown these money into the wind all these years instead of investing in the surrounding of land, strengthening the OPGs, and thus strengthening and preparing our farmers to join the EU. We've been implementing 5 pilot projects since 2005, and we've only managed to carry it out one. So it's one general destimulation. And as for what would be the cure for faster implementation of land books and catastras is a very simple thing, we didn't have to spend a lot of money on the circulation of courts now, but we should have increased capacities and simply started solving cases. But it's not recognised as a priority. And as long as the state of affairs in land books is not recognised as a priority, we won't have a result. When you're in a mass garter, things are now standing because no one knows where they're traveling because the courts are rounding up and they're practically standing from 1.04. and they'll be standing safely until 1.10. because it won't be easy to function until it's all been followed by you for half a year without any result. And that's how it works for you. And in what way will land books be resolved before the commission? It's just that if this law starts to work, it's going to speed up and it's going to sort out the land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107951	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107952	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said that the OPGs are failing, and that's true. They've been falling intensively, especially in the last 3.5 years. It is essential and logical that all these years no one wanted to hold onto it not only during these twenty years but also before, and that when the law was once very rarely implemented, it later left traces very long in human relations. So it is not questionable whether it should be done or not, whether the law should be passed or not, it will take a long time. And what's important to say is that let's not imagine that this Law on COMMASATION and the implementation of the multiannual as it is said here in this process of agricultural land cohesion, many of the OPGs that now exist will welcome. And there's the problem. So, in some distant future, it may contribute to better, greater food production, but I don't believe it will contribute to some mass preservation of life in the country because mass life in the country and the preservation of such life in the country can only be preserved in the OPGs, in families, in family economies until large farms and large systems guarantee the preservation of life in the country. These are practically companies with very few employees and with taking up a large, large space. The OPGs that had 20, 30, 40, 50 hectares of land failed, so it's hard to save them more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107953	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107954	Dear colleague Hrg, I remember your party in 2002 was very proud of the right turn towards politics and the creation of the OPGs. Only some of the OPGs had 20, 30 or 40 hectares, most of them the same at a level of up to 10 hectares, which is still not enough for adequate production. I repeat, the European farmer has 20 hectares of minimum and of 20 hectares goes up, and it will take us another 10 years to get our Croatian farmer who should also have a status and a European farmer up to 20 hectares. It's just not possible with the way we think. And 10 years is an ambitious plan. So, I think, with this Cooperation Act, we should really make a quality strategy that makes those areas go straight into business, with what means? It is very clear there that some of the funds will be reserved each year for the commission. This retail sale of small agricultural land by direct sale should also allegedly go for the commission. These are all good methods in which to collect the means to combine. But I repeat these funds now projected in law in some areas will absolutely not be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107955	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected deputies and listeners here today in this House all the proposals and all the shortcomings of this proposed law certainly testify that because of these many years that have passed, since 87.When nothing has been done on the subject of the Law on Cooperation we come to the conclusion that this is indeed a complex issue and that perhaps because of the time, and perhaps because of other things that were previously to be taken care of in the ministry, we have not simply been engaged in such a problem or in a final solution to the Law on Cooperation. It may be an opportunity and time to talk about it today, but we are witnessing that until the final solution we will still have a great deal, it will take a lot of time, but we will definitely need and change a lot more to really make the Law of Cooperation the way we want it to be. Whether it will be final and enforceable will of course show the future, and I am sure that at this point, regardless of what we have raised this issue, we have several very important things that concern exactly the implementation of this law, and these few things are for me and as far as the HDZ Club is concerned, inconsistencies with other laws, the Law on fiscal responsibility and certainly the inconsistencies of the garter and land books. Of course, here today, distinguished colleagues and colleagues who have spoken, and especially those who are dealing with exactly the right and land books certainly have far greater insight than the rest of us who are not dealing with this but knowing what is the situation in grants, in land books, in certain counties, this will certainly represent one of the biggest problems. That is why I am sure that just through one joint engagement of all of us in the coming period of time we will do everything possible to bring this law that is very important for agricultural production to an end and, as it is said today and what is said that there should simply be no policy. If we point to certain problems, then we certainly point out because we care about this law being enforceable in Croatia and that it benefits those who need it most, and these are our agricultural producers. Why them? It is precisely because Croatia imports large quantities of food and we want it right through the land in the area of the Republic of Croatia through the rounding of what was particularly said here Vesna Škare Ozbolt is indeed the need for our farmer to ultimately have a far larger area of land especially arranged in pieces than it has today. Our peasant is indeed in one situation today that he cannot mate with all those EU producers, and Croatia is also in the EU today and we will have to make a real effort to make sure that in a shorter period of time we all stand together to ensure the future of the Croatian village. What is important to say is that in the laws that we have passed the Law on Agriculture, the Law on Agricultural Land with which we have agreed, especially because we have made all the expensive efforts to really amend all those articles in the law that are too much needed so that the law can function in order to be subject to the very existence of a small man in the country, I hope that this Law on Cooperation as we have done together and in these other laws will be effective as soon as possible. Introductoryly, I would like to reiterate that it is really necessary to approach the procedures of the trade so that we can raise the competitiveness of our agricultural production and create conditions for better agricultural land management. We all agree the commission is necessary, when we first read in our discussions we returned to the time in which the law was to be reached. They mentioned themselves here and accused the former governments who in the last two decades had not moved in the process of rounding up agricultural land, the lost year in which we were supposed to work n rounding agricultural land. That is precisely why we at the HDZ Club think that in the construction of this law, in cooperation with other ministries whose competences affect the implementation of this law are sitting down and doing the job to the end. The amendments to the laws that are more or less complementary or create assumptions for the implementation of the law we are discussing today were to be approached. It was necessary to offer a concrete law, a law implementing in practice. But hopefully that's the way it's gonna be. Generally looking at the basic shortcomings we talked about and at the first reading of the law, they remained unarranged in the final draft of the law. In my debate at the very beginning, I touched a discrepancy with other laws. The implementation of this law could be in conflict with the Law on Property, the Law on Land Books, the Law on Inheritance. This is exactly what an inter-resorship agreement was meant to achieve, and to approach amendments and additions to those laws because otherwise this law will be inadmissible in practice. This is the way law-making works. We build a house from the roof. We don't have a foundation to carry walls. Secondly, I was talking about the Law on fiscal responsibility, the obligations arising from the financing of the costs of the implementation of the comcommissioning and investment procedures that are directly related to the implementation of the commission are a direct burden on the budgets of the local self-government unit- After the redistribution of income taxes that cities and municipalities of this government have denied funds for cca 2 billion kuna on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are creating new burdens for their budgets. The proposal states that the commission will be financed from measures within the rural development programme and the resources provided at the position of the Agricultural Land Agency for 2015 amounting to 12 million kuna per year, and in the budget projections of 2016-2020. Compassion funds will also be secured from the sale of state-owned agricultural land, with revenue becoming revenue to local self-government units. Have any simulations been made on the amount of these funds and the ability of the local self-government unit to withdraw these funds? Do we have any idea how much it costs to carry out a commercial process? Madam Deputy, you're talking, but I don't know if you're listening to what I'm asking a specific question. Based on this legislative proposal, 23 actions, which we are witnessing, need to be carried out from the beginning of the comcommissioning process from the creation of an idea project to the final decision on the membership. Has anyone been doing a calculation of the financial cost of carrying out a comcommissioning process that, as colleagues here today have said, will certainly be far higher than is predicted? So the exact calculation has certainly not yet been made. What I specifically said, which is the inconsistencies of garter and land books. Because of the inconsistency of the grantine and land books, some of the procedures of the commission will not be possible to implement. The coordination of grantshops and land books requires reconstruction of land books, and the restoration of land books requires funds. Are these funds secure? What we have heard today today is that this Law of Compassion is really going to get us a lot of things. Not only will we get rounding, we today are very much in need of irrigation in our lands where so far it has simply not been feasible precisely because of the depravity of our plots. We are witnesses and we know because we come from the field especially in my Požega-Slavon County and my town of Pleklernica and I am sure that in other environments, many roads, many water streams, streams are not regulated and there is no way of knowing in which they are owned or how and how all activities should be established on the establishment of roads and waterways so as to address the land as quickly and as possible. Because we are witnessing that today on certain plots because of exactly the roads where it is simply unaccessible to get to land especially those water streams where we have blue land and all because it is not arranged and because we do not know who they belong to or whose duty it is to arrange it. We talked here and about local self-government and about the funds that local self-government must allocate, and it is based precisely on those funds that will come from the sale of agricultural land but we need to know one thing, that it will be a unit of local self-government but we are also aware that it will not be too much resources because we know that agricultural land in larger quantities is not allowed in the Republic of Croatia at least in this situation, but it is precisely smaller parcels of half a hectare, and it will not be so much area that will significantly improve the budget of local self-government units. God forbid the funds we're planning come from the rural development program, that these are the means that we're covering for everything we're going to do in local self-government units because without those funds, basically this law is not enforceable. The units of local self-government, and we must bear in mind all of us and the Government of the Republic of Croatia at this time have so much already been burdened by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it discharges its budget precisely on the back and shoulders of the powerless unit of local self-government, it must not allow yet another burden that the units of local self-government cannot function and in such a way that they cannot implement this imaginary law as I have said which is so necessary for the survival of a Croatian man who deals with agriculture. Of course, this law too is expected with impatience all of us and that just when we know and have insight and it all depends on us how and at what speed we work on this law will simply be happy for those who need it, and that is also the guarantee that this law will stop the dwindling or better said destruction of those people who are engaged in agricultural production and who are indeed in extremely difficult conditions at this moment. If we don't do it in time, if we don't do it the way we do it here in the law, and I'm afraid that later adoption of this law will have no one to apply because this difficult situation in which our Croatian village today is located, our Croatian producers could simply lead to this measure that ultimately we can pass the Law on Cooperation without having agricultural producers. Of course, as a man who comes from rural areas, I am very concerned and as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and, of course, all of us in the Croatian Democratic Community that it does not come to this because otherwise Croatia will no longer have the means to increase agricultural, import agricultural products and we today have to fight how and how to reduce imports and just give the opportunity to this little man we are fighting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107957	We've got a few replicas, Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, you too in your discussion and colleague Skare-Ozbolt and several other representatives here in reality have shown the importance of passing the law. Yes, this law is important to pass, but by passing this law, are we going to, will the farmers get anything? And what he will gain if he will not be enforceable and will be difficult to implement or in no way enforceable because the bases for implementation are not created. And that's not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Those bases aren't created now. They haven't been created in years. Well, I'm not saying that the law doesn't need to be passed, of course it needs to be passed and it needs to be done, but what I'm always kind of sad about is that we have a series of good laws and not just in agriculture, but laws that touch other problems, too, but here they are not being implemented or can't be implemented. And the law itself means nothing, nothing. You also mentioned the garland and the money that needs to be secured. And besides, informing the farmers themselves on the ground. I think that he, he'll start to implement, will probably be carried out by some other government but she too, and that other government should first solve all the problems that are in the context of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107959	Thank you. Answer from fellow Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107960	Yes, colleagues, I agree that there are a lot of shortcomings, and I'm in my own statement right now, and I said that this would all be over together. It's just these shortages, the shortages have to be carried out. It is important that the law is started, but before we expect a final solution, and that is not possible in one year, this will certainly continue some other government that will implement this law and it is precisely the task of these current governments to make all these actions that are so much needed, which will not make it possible to implement it, in a shorter period of time, change it. Unless it's feasible, because we know if the garter and the cadastre are not in line with the fact that the law is inconclusive. We are witnessing in our midst what the situation is exactly in certain counties. I am afraid, and especially in these southern parts of Croatia where the land is far more expensive and where there is very much need and where it should be implemented, it will be really difficult. And here we may have something easier to do in Slavonia, as we know it, and our colleagues today have said that in Slavonia there is a somewhat more orderly situation in matters of both grantines and catastras. Therefore, to resort to work and indeed in a short time period of time to change the fundamental values of this law that are so important that this law should be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107961	Branko Bačić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucic, I agree entirely with your debate. You listed exactly the most important questions that seemed to me to have been resolved before this law. If I were not to repeat what I was saying in the earlier replica, it would have been good if the adoption of this law had been followed by a multi-annual programme of membership as provided for in an article in this law adopted by the Croatian Parliament. At that time, we would really know the exact data that this space is thought of as priority areas in Croatia for cohesion and then we would know more about the funds needed for this commission. In fact, this is one estimated estimate of 3,000 kuna per 1 hectare, which seems to me to be far below what is needed. And when we know that these 3,000 kunas per hectare are also required to provide a unit of local self-government, we rightly ask whether units of local self-government with such reduced resources that, by amending the Income Tax Act and amending the Law on co-financing of local self-government units anyway, the government will reduce funds to local self-government, in order to enable co-financing by units of local self-government to implement itself. So with the outstanding previous issues that were necessary for the adoption of this law, I'm afraid that in fact this commercial project will be aware of the arondation, that we won't have the money to carry out the commission, and the commission involves and the order of the roads, the arrangement of the meliatory channels, which is very much costing. So here's what I said, I'm afraid we don't bring down this well-imagined project of compatriots...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107963	Thank you. Answer, fellow Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107964	Of course, in my debate, I touched those most important points needed to make the law work at all. Of course, like the head of a long-term unit of local self-government, I am just concerned that this discharge by the Government of the Republic of Croatia today, and on the back of the unit of local self-government, is not possible yet to implement this law to be financed by the units of local self-government. But I'm saying, I believe it's precisely the means that will come from the rural development program that will be the one and whether it will be sufficient is questionable. They are questionable above all and surfaces that we cannot say with certainty today that these are the exact surfaces that are spoken of. Even less accurate is the amount of the actual commission that will certainly be far greater in the future. What's important is that I repeat once again that in a short period of time we go in some order, to set priorities for what we do, because without priority we won't be able to simply begin to pass this law. It is therefore important that these priorities be, and I have just now absorbed them in my presentation, concrete indicators that must change. All the less important ones that will follow in the course of the implementation of this law will certainly be easier to implement than these key ones that cannot be realised in a short period of time, but it is therefore necessary and time and indeed far more resources than is foreseen today, especially when it comes to the fixation of the situation in the grants, in the Catastres, that we simply do not speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107965	Thank you. Tomislav Žagar replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107966	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, you yourself said that one of the basic objectives of this law is the rounding of agricultural areas in order to increase the competitiveness of the CAP. A village like that can no longer be, can't exist, can't go back to history. I think that colleague Skare-Ozbolt here said in her speech that young people with half a hectares will not survive, but it is quite clear that not all young people who want to deal with agriculture can't get bigger surfaces either. So if everyone wants to live off agriculture, no one will live. In our villages for survival, it is important to associate agriculture and especially the food industry, and that's part of the story of a new village that needs to live because there are people living in the country today who are not engaged in agriculture. And when I talk about municipalities and cities, units of local self-government, you've touched income tax here and mentioned the number they lost, but it's not until the end because according to the index of development of many, especially Slavonian County, here's our county, my county, many municipalities and cities have entered that first group. So significant means free came at your disposal. And look, the arrangement of Polish roads anyway and now the municipality has an obligation to regulate Polish roads and this law would arrange these things, so it would actually be less surfaces that should then be arranged because many Polish roads actually don't exist. They are not drawn anywhere, but, in time, they are created so the municipality has such paths as the obligation to arrange roads. As far as the canals are concerned, of course this law will help, and the situation is really as you say, the situation is pretty bad and especially with the floods threatening us, so in that sense, I think this law is going to do us a lot of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107967	Thank you. Answer from fellow Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107968	Comrade Žagar, we come from the same area, so the area there of Virovitica, Požega-Slavonska County, Djurdjevac, I don't know, and we really know what the situation is, first of all, and on the ground, but we know what is the situation in our budgets of the local self-government unit. I am aware that we need to maintain Polish roads, but you know that simply local self-government units do not have enough resources to design exactly the concept and maintain these roads as they are looking at other European countries not only to be maintained, that macadams are actually paved by Polish roads. We're still a long way from that project. But looking at what the government of the Republic of Croatia today has done to local and regional self-government units is indeed a disaster. I'll just give you an example of my city of Požega, which was supposed to lose 4 million kuna on the basis of, so first of all, income tax and all that the government just took away from all cities and municipalities. Not that he'll lose four million kunas, he'll lose six million kunas. It is simply irreparable for such a city which is a bigger city, and imagine those environments that have so far been one of my Caglins who had a budget of 3 and a half million kuna and now the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken another million and 200 thousand kunas in its amendments to the law. So how these people will survive there, and imagine that community has 32 settlements. Poor thing from head to wherever you're going. How he'll maintain Polish roads, how he'll survive at all. So it has to change a lot. The government of the Republic of Croatia is discharging its budget on the back of local self-government. It's not working anymore and it can't be done like that anymore. The government of the Republic of Croatia must seek other solutions, which is only the development of the economy and without the development of the economy and agriculture there is no future in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107969	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107970	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucić, and since you mentioned Caglin municipality, then you should have known why Caglin municipality is so underdeveloped. According to the list of municipalities, according to the Caglin Development Index, there is an unemployment rate you know how much? 92%. The municipality records the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, then these Polish roads, the unclassified roads that belong to the municipality's jurisdiction, can be as they are. We know what they're like. But I didn't want to say it, I wanted to talk to you about how you went down on how this government didn't make a advance and implemented measures so that the commission could be properly implemented. So I wonder what your government's been doing for eight years. Did she perform pre-work and measures in the garter, the catastra and the measurements so that we could. Maybe we could have a commission right after this government arrived that you made those measures and advances that you're talking about. Unfortunately, you also had the Minister of Agriculture, and you had the Ministry of Justice. So, you didn't do anything, or very little, let's not be so mean. I don't defend here, nor do I want to defend, nor am I a fan of the government of the Kukuriku coalition. But once said one poet born in Slavonski Brod wanted a lot, a lot started. This is going to be a long-term process, this is not what you expect, nor can you criticize that the process can end in a year or two days. Well, 20 years will take place. So 265 municipalities don't have geodetic catastrian measurements, as counterpart Mile Horvat said. So how will that commission be carried out in municipalities when half of the municipalities are gone, no land ownership is included in the garter or in the catastro. So, you need to be objective, say the bar, though I'm going to have a speech, so I'm going to say that the legal proposal is good. The conditions have not been established, and you, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, are not to blame. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107971	Thank you. Answer from fellow Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107972	My colleague Grubisic, I would not enter into a debate as politically as you have stated and perhaps the intolerance of you to the Croatian democratic community. But the Croatian Democratic Community indeed had a responsibility in the creation of the Republic of Croatia, including the creation of the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries where it was just entrusted to her by the people of the Republic of Croatia. Who negotiated negotiations with the EU for Croatia's entry into the EU? Who took responsibility for everything we haven't had so far? ... And you, sir, can't raise yourself or say that you took responsibility from your party in any unit of local self-government and I don't see why you insult yourself when no one insults you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So we're talking about real things, and you take responsibility in a small unit of local self-government like Coughlin. You're not even able to take over there. Therefore, do not talk about the responsibility of the Croatian Democratic Community if your impatience for the party is yours. This party certainly has responsibility for what it has done very well and for all that it will do in the future, because we do have results behind us. But we are also the first to admit and certain things that have arisen within the Croatian Democratic Community, unlike all others who have not done so to this day. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community knows how and how to manage agriculture, and when we are able to do so, we will know and show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107973	Thank you. Deputy Minister of Agriculture Snježana Spain called for the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107974	Thank you very much. Let me just answer some questions and comments here. So, I am sorry, first of all, that the debate on agricultural producers and the rounding up of agricultural land and their future has led mainly to a debate on local self-government units. That's not a good message for them and neither is for us. As far as the amounts are concerned, I would just like to say that a value assessment has been made in the preparation of the rural development programme and it has been calculated how much agricultural land should be combined according to the current interest, it is somewhere around 280 thousand hectares. It has been estimated that from 2015 to 2020, 90 thousand hectares should be combined, and then slightly less at the annual level. For these 6 years, an estimate of the amount needed is made of 270 million kuna, which is 45 million kuna at year level. Therefore, very detailed analyses have been made in order to translate all of this into a rural development programme for the Republic of Croatia and for measures approved by the European Commission by the Republic of Croatia, and one of them is the regional consolidation carried out by the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, we have heard a large number of Member States, i.e. the agricultural land accumulation. We don't want to talk about past things, we want to talk about the future, we want to talk about what we need to provide for agricultural producers, and that's primarily to cut costs because very simply some have 50 and even 100 particles. Take also environmental protection and related to their costs as to how many mechanical walkways they must make, how much more fuel they spend, and that we cannot talk about the irrigation system in one such atmosphere and in such areas of the Republic of Croatia at all. Because the agricultural producer has completely scattered particles, among which is the ownership of other agricultural producers, simply as much as he wants it cannot establish a irrigation system. With national strategies and national programmes, we've drawn up some things, but we haven't solved the basics. One of the fundamentals that in other Member States a large number of Member States that have highly developed agricultural production is the commercialisation of agricultural land. Why? Because by inheriting agricultural particles and cadastral particles are shared and in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, a large number of years did not exist the reverse process of joining and rounding up than we had for 30 or more 40 years a procedure that divided the larger parcels into less, so we come to absurdities. There's someone here and said that the Republic of Croatia has 20 million cadastrian particles. Of course, here I am also saying, in order to address the previous issues, it is not necessary to address the previous issues, because in the process of commissioning, by calling together the owners and owners, each of them will also be subject to cadastral measurements and enrollment in the grantovnica or the owner's office, property and property will be resolved. And, of course, the law here provides for the supremacy of the majority and part of the units of local self-government. Therefore, if certain agricultural producers do not want to go into the process, no one will force them to do so, but if part of the agricultural producers want to do so and that is their interest then, for part of the municipality, this process will be carried out for part of the cadastrian municipality. So no one is pushing anyone but we are creating conditions for us to use European funds, which are used by other Member States, and to enable our agricultural producers to round up their property, to reduce costs and to have fewer problems together, both for the implementation of the irrigation system and for all that they can achieve through the booklet in the garnery as collateral instruments for loans that they can use again through the rural development programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107975	Thank you too, Deputy. We have three replicas. Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107976	Thank you very much. Well, here's Madam Deputy, since we often co-operate and especially on the Committee on Agriculture of this Croatian Parliament, my exposure has just gone in this direction, as many have understood, obviously some have not, therefore, without politicization. In order for us to pass this law, we really need one reason, a lot of dialogue, and I think that in previous laws and the Law on Agriculture and the Law on Agricultural Land we have just harmonised both the left and right sides and all those other parties that have agreed with the fact that these laws are so much needed to preserve Croatian production, i.e. the Croatian man who deals with agriculture. That's exactly what I was talking about today. It was just a misunderstanding whether we were missing more or less funds. According to our estimates, these funds won't be enough. But what matters when we get to the funds is that we have a lot more important things ahead of us that we need to solve in order to get to what we're talking about right now. Therefore, I ask my colleagues and colleagues in this House not to be politicised, not to be told what was done before, what the HDZ Government has done in the past term, and we know that it has also created the Republic of Croatia along with other parties and we know that it has assumed the same responsibility in the past time on all matters. But let us now make our contribution to the common forces, in addition to these laws that we have passed in agriculture, to bring the law to the common forces on cohesion. But he didn't, possibly lead him to the end in a year. It's going to take a lot of effort, but let's put everything that's important in order to achieve that law to do what I'm doing in the time period.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107977	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107978	Here's just a few sentences. So I pointed out that we were doing an evaluation for the 2015-2010 programming period. We are only aware that for many years this has not been worked on, but we are confident that with the use of EU funds and all that is at our disposal, this process will finally be launched in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107979	Thank you, too. Mile Horvat replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107980	Thank you, Mrs. Spanish. We absolutely share the same idea, we need to make a compromise and you've made a pretty good legal framework for that implementation. But I can't accept your claim that there's no need to edit the so-called "commission" previous or preliminary issues they are an elemental matter and it is property. I can't agree that you're going to be in the process of co-commissioning to settle the issue of ownership enrollment. This is done by some other institutions under another procedure and therefore cannot be entered in ownership, the ownership correction is not done by a commission to carry out the commission. Therefore, there is absolutely no difficulty in commuting the lack of registration of ownership, meaning there is no fact of registration of ownership or itself as the basis of ownership and the existence of wrong registration of ownership. It's two things we haven't done in the last 20 years, and I think it's the most important thing and the biggest obstacle to this good initiative and the absolute need for cohesion being carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107981	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107982	I understand that some things are not clear, but therefore the ultimate result of the commission is enrollment in the garter, in the property, in the land book, but it is also done by new cadastrian measurements by rounding. So if you have 10 different particles at 10 different locations they join together, you enroll in the cadastre and in the grantovnica all in one procedure free of charge for the user by the rural development program the measures will be financed in a 100% amount, according to our estimate up to 3,000 kuna per hectare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107983	Thank you, too. Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107984	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, you've given an explanation regarding, in fact, the EU project, the withdrawal of EU funds, in fact, for the commission or as you say, the land consolidation. But what you mentioned was irrigation, and we know that about 1.5% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia has not moved from place to day, so here is how you had one pilot project of the national irrigation program from the former government in Orubica code, so Davor and Orubica are one municipality. And here's the other day I learned in the County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County that this pilot project in ten years was able to complete irrigation for 300 hectares. Well, of course, 1.5% of the area of the Republic remains, 1.5 plus some of these 300 hectares in Orubica. I hope that this combination will come to a much larger surface, as a percentage I speak, which will then have the ability to irrigate, however you wish to meliorate. Oh, God, that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107985	Thank you. There's no answer. Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, I will say that the HNS Club will support this bill and we would certainly propose that, or I suggest to all colleagues and all clubs, that this very important law be passed by consensus if possible. Because this is literally one of the most important measures in competitive and economic agricultural production. And the fact that the final proposal of this law included a number of proposals that improved it, regardless of whether the applicants were representatives of ruling or opposition or clubs of ruling or opposition, is also said about how serious this second reading was. I think there's the Ministry and this government that has shown one seriousness in this important process for our agriculture. I would, first of all, repeat a few interesting data. In fact, a third of the world's population is working in agriculture and therefore I see that the importance of this law is quite high because it can give the Republic of Croatia a certain and great chance because of the large number of perks of the world-wide population. If we compare the data that in 1950 there were 2.5 billion inhabitants and then there were about half a hectare of useful land per capita. 2000. 6 billion inhabitants average per main population of 0.3 hectares. And the estimated number of inhabitants by 2020 until the end of this period of the deputy minister spoke of 7.5 billion, which means that only 0.2 hectares per capita will then be useful land. This data shows that the fertile land and water are one of the world's most important resources and there is no reason not to be in the Republic of Croatia, and the goal is primarily to create competitive production and return to self-sufficiency and, if possible, to go towards as much as possible. The Article of the 5th Law clearly states when to go on a commercial basis, Article 6 specifies exactly when not to go on a commercial basis or why not. And the question is, why would you even go into business? Croatia has 14 million cadastar particles, and there are 4 million and 300 thousand of us, or maybe something less. Now imagine what that relationship is. This is one of the reasons why our agricultural production is not economical, uncompetitive because we know well that small, small-scale possessions cannot be competitive. I'd like to get some more information. The Republic of Croatia has 2 million 149 thousand 80 ha of agricultural land, and of these farmland currently uses a million and 316 thousand. So you didn't use 833 thousand ha. Of course there are several reasons why this is so, but one reason why this land is not used is precisely the depravity of the possessions of our farmers. The cost of the land shall be calculated on the basis of the information provided by the Member State in which the land is harvested. Land rounding is carried out if, due to the high fragmentation of land, agricultural production cannot be organised in a quality and competitive way. Why is it so important to us? It is important for us, above all, because of the larger and more economic production, because with a smaller number of larger round particles of the OPG, or that agricultural entity that handles agricultural land has fewer transport costs, the time of soil processing is reduced, and the depreciation of machinery is much more economical. In addition, the commissioning or quality-ordered land also brings the settlements themselves into a more favourable position because if the OPGs are competitive then the remaining of young people in these rural areas is safe. This way, agricultural roads, roads, water facilities, canals, dams are arranged, lands are prevented, all that is important for more quality and competitive production, as well as improving the quality of life in the countryside. What is most important is that ownership and other real legal relations on land are arranged in the conflict. The parties in the procedure are owners of land, land users of social property and tenants. It's a bit unusual that the Republic of Croatia has not reached this law for 24 years in an independent state. Probably because of the complexity and importance of this law, especially when applied. For the sake of unsettled land books, we can say that the current ministries and governments may not have decided on this procedure, perhaps out of some fear, may have been really afraid to go into such a complex process. In any case, we support this law and should not go megalomanically because the Republic of Croatia does not have enough resources to arrange approximately 300 thousand hectares of processed surfaces at speed or to circle within two or three years. If the Republic of Croatia had so much money in its own budget, it would probably not be a problem for this job to be done in a shorter period. What is also important is that in the Republic of Croatia, we often had mentioned even Mary Teresa, Francis Joseph, meaning from 1862 to '91 only 800 thousand hectares, that still a large number of procedures were conducted under the old Law on Land Cruising or Compassion from 1979, which was not completed in 1987. Here we could really cite a number of concrete examples, a series of small towns, a series of small municipalities such as the Municipality of Sirac or the Municipality of Dežanovac, where in the catastrian parts of Kreštelovac, Sokolovac the land was placed, particles were replaced, but never property was transferred. Farmers, who have lost their country, who have been resident in their country, are registered, and the country they received in return is being carried out in a catastrian manner. But it's grunting on someone else, it's a big problem that definitely needs to be solved. It is therefore good that this new law provides for and prescribed a way of ending proceedings which are not completed under the old law. What is, in some ways, the most worrying and essentially opening the biggest problem is the fact that the catastre is uncoordinated, or cataclysm and land books, or their consistency is only 3%. So this is not a job that is only related to one ministry, it is a job that has a synergy to do several ministries because it depends largely on the competitiveness of Croatian agricultural production. If we are to successfully carry out the commission here is this target that is set by 2020 and then, in this next period, we believe that our agricultural economies will be able to produce food better and more economically, and that we will be competitive. The commission itself is a complex business and the law should be as simple and as efficient as possible. There have already been some colleagues here, and here some time before, the deputy minister was mentioned and many problems have been touched, which even in this segment may not be included. Among other things, this is a matter of succession and it is certainly something that other laws and laws definitely need to do. What is particularly important for local self-government units, which because of the difficult financial situation, no one can impose a major obligation on additional funding, but it is certainly necessary to see that a close financial structure and the means provided, first of all we have rural development, is from the EU, if we need some support from the state budget because local self-government units cannot finance such a process themselves. Article 3 of this Law states that the commission is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. I hope, therefore, that it is of particular interest to all the political parties that are participating in this House, and I would therefore like this law to be adopted to the greatest extent in the consensus. It would also first and foremost welcome the amendments to Article 8 in which it is now defined, meaning in the second reading that the approval of a half-dominated majority of all owners is required. This is primarily related to our islands but also to other areas where there are a large number of owners who have not been in contact with that property for decades because they are located from Australia, New Zealand, South America, Western Europe, etc. and they could significantly disable the process in this way. The proposal is, however, to see the possibility of meeting the OPGs especially those who know the owners of adjacent particles to be allowed to replace particles in terms of rounding up agricultural areas under special conditions. Now it was possible but only as a sale. In such cases, the same conditions as those laid down for the country's replacement should be ensured without being seen as standard procedure and standard traffic of real estate for the purpose of paying certain claims. I think that would allow one part of the family's agricultural holdings in their interest to replace particles without costing too much. By doing so, we would get bigger particles and thus more competitive family farms. If we are aware and effective enough, we could certainly finish this process long before it's planned. In the long run, we know it's been over 20 years, about 20 years. Here is the deputy lady who mentioned this target period for the target quantity because the competitiveness of our agricultural production and economics depends primarily on this part of the commission, or on the circulation of land. The Croatian People's Party will support this law because we believe it is an important segment of the development and competitiveness of agriculture and family farms. And what we all know is that only a competitive and successful farmer means that the state is competitive and successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107987	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107988	Thank you very much. My colleague Bilek, since you have a broad coalition in Daruvar from all parties, I see that your debate has been directed in that direction. And of course that, like us, we're going to accept this Law of Compassion. But there's something else I wanted to say that came out of a little bit of an accident from your exposure, which is that the first 90,000 hectares that are supposed to be commuted should be almost by 2020. At exactly the same time, a ban on the purchase of agricultural land by foreigners in the Republic of Croatia comes out. So that year, foreigners will be able to freely buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. Now let's look at this situation a little bit. The European Union is giving money for the commission, therefore in the form of aid for rural projects. In order for us to carry out this commission and when the commission is carried out by 2020, these same Europeans will be able to go freely with us, given the destroyed large village of all governments of the Republic of Croatia, given the weakened material status of the village and the poverty of the village and the peasants in the Republic of Croatia, they will be able to buy freely as the members of the European Union say here. Well, it's kind of like this, I'm not gonna say it's annoying, it's a little bit of a concern. And sometimes I feel like I'm not a fan of that phenomenon of conspiracy that sometimes there's something in the background that a man should think a little bit about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107989	Thank you. My colleague Bilek's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107990	Here, dear colleague Grubisic, it is not said that exactly 2020, this land will be combined. So that's, uh... a certain period for a certain number of hectares. Of course it's a wish to do it early not for someone else but for our farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's the point and the idea of everything is that our family economies, our food companies, which deal with the production of that agricultural land, well master that land, to enable them to compete, that our companies like we had the opportunity to see this week in taking over several large agricultural combinations in neighbouring countries, that our OPGs get to that level or our cooperative, that they can take over in such a way that they can be competitive and that's the only goal. If we don't, we certainly won't have them. We can say we've tried so far. I can't say that even one government hasn't thought about it and probably all governments have been thinking about that part so far, but none of them have dared to move into that part. I agree with you that 12 hours is the deadline, but fortunately, let's do it, make our family economies competitive. And on the other hand, let's not talk about a recent state-owned agricultural land law where there's no sale. What's most important in that whole story is that we're not going to sell land anymore. And that part, which is state agricultural land, can go to rent, or concessions for 50 years. In 50 years, our farmers and all the tenders that will be called these years will be used by our farmers in the next 50 years and we should together create conditions for them to be competitive on the market, to be stronger and ultimately from what we are now unfortunately an importer of agricultural products as a country of Croatia, where we do not have self-sufficiency almost in any food product to become not only self-sufficient but also to become exporters in that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107991	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist Party Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107992	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy associate, director of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Labourists will support this Cooperation Act just as we supported it in our first reading. Here I am pleased that the proposer has taken a number of suggestions and suggestions from the first to the final law into account and implemented them in the final law. We've heard a lot about the Law of Compassion today. What always confuses me is, we all agree that something is good and that we finally bring it in and adopt it, and then we're full of skeptics, suspicions, infidelities, fear, that we're going to find out that it's good in practice at all and that it's really going to be possible. The facts are as follows. We haven't done anything for 30 years in the matter of cohesion, which means we haven't thought about it since the first day of our independent Croatia, and today we're where we are. We didn't have a database on agricultural land either. We shared the incentives without any timetable and without any control, and we said to develop competitive agriculture. The Croatian farmer is currently not competitive and Croatian agricultural production is not enough for Croatian needs. Agriculture has never been perceived as a strategic branch until recently. We've always missed money in the same way as we do for certain major projects, demanding projects are still missing today. And we say today that before the Cooperation Act, we haven't solved a number of other issues and that it is questionable whether this law will be applicable and whether we will be able to implement it at all, given that we haven't solved grantines, land books, property-legal relations and so on. If we wait for the garters and the land books to be matched, then we won't be able to do a commission for at least another 100 or 200 years. If. That's where we come in to ask what we're going with before. I believe that this law on cohesion, as my colleague said before, must be passed by consensus, and we must all bring it in because it is the first step towards rounding up agricultural particles, i.e. the first step towards large agricultural boards. I doubt the claims made here today that the agency and the ministry have not made a projection and have not made a cost plan and everything that is done, and on suspicion I will tell you why I doubt such claims is next. When we recently passed the Law on Agricultural Land then we received information that for the first time in Croatia's history a quality database began to work. Personally, I believe that without that database, there was no place for us to even pass the Law of Compassion. Now we're in a situation where we can look at a certain database, that for the first time we have information where we have certain particles, which is owned at least somewhere by the owner of several particles that we can eventually put together into one particle. And I believe that the Agency for Agricultural Land Management, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, came up with an answer where we'll first start with a combination and I guess that's where most of it was solved, or a harmonised garland with land books. This is the first step where we show in practice how to work and how we have to work. When we take this first step, I have no doubt that we will not show to everyone else based on this practice, especially to the leaders of the local self-government units and to all the mayors that it is possible to do something and give motivation and cause in which ways certain things can be solved so that there can be further communication. Yes, there is, there is, that inter-resorship cooperation is needed, and I still have doubts about the statements that have been made today that the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Land Management will not find ways and models to think first of all about the Ministry of Justice, so they will not ask for a faster solution of property-legal relations and coordination of the grantines with land books. What I may have little doubt is the willingness of the leader of the local self-government unit to respond to the challenges of the commission. So by adopting the Law on Agriculture, by adopting the Law on Agricultural Land, and now by the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, we have shown that we have a vision and that we have set ourselves a goal. And the only goal we have at this time is to increase the competitiveness of Croatian farmers and to increase the production of food on domestic agricultural areas that we will benefit more, but which thanks to competitiveness will therefore be our export product and export brand. So we set goals, with these three laws we have shown that we have a vision of how we want to get to that goal and come and I have no doubt that it will not be achieved. What concerns me personally, however, is the units of local self-government and not so much because of financial costs. As we heard today, so we've applied to the rural development program, it's designed to say the layman's cost of how much it's going to cost us. We've kind of booked the money like that, but the question is really now that the head of the local self-government unit is going to succeed in doing everything they're expected to do. For years, we've been making a pretty big mistake about the ability in local self-government units. So for years, we have funded and trained certain ways to write good projects and respond to the challenges that the EU and the withdrawal of funds requires of us, to finance certain individuals, to educate certain individuals in development agencies and after a few years of training them, when we trained them, these individuals went to private groups, without sharing their knowledge with municipalities and cities, or to workers in these municipalities and cities who should also have certain knowledge and could have to respond to these challenges now. So we come to one conclusion, and that is the conclusion that one and only that responsibility is really on everyone. The responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, the responsibility of the Agency for the Management of Agricultural Land, the responsibility of the units of local self-government and regional administration and the responsibility of each farmer. The responsibility of the farmer team more in this work that each farmer truly understands the importance of rounding these particles is an important and important job in order to achieve greater competitiveness and that at all those meetings they will be invited to and which, because it says in the law that the commission will not be done without good cooperation with the owners of these particles. If we don't get this right, and if these farmers don't realize on these talks how important it is to give their consent and that the commission is really going to be difficult to implement, then this first part of the story, which is this part of the responsibility of the ministry and responsibility of the agency itself. I definitely think that a greater agility of local leaders must be expected because unfortunately we are all witnessing that some local leaders, as the layman says, are many, many spears in front of some other local leaders, and therefore important to us to achieve this kind of regional development, a uniform regional development that we all stand for. And I think it might be a good idea to think in this direction of the team before this Law of COMMUNITY is first of all well taken to the local leaders, that they realize how much their responsibility is, that we don't have to change the spatial plans every so much, and then we have agricultural land, and then we go to change the plan, and then we build it up from that farm, and then again we have complaints, and then we bring it back to agriculture and so on. The next problem we are going to have and we definitely need to think about is the Inheritance Act that doesn't happen to us now round up the particles, and that if we don't solve the Inheritance Act after a while, we need to re-cut them, and we need to find a solution for the cadastral particles that are agricultural, and whose owners don't deal with agriculture if we really want to do it the way we imagined it should be done. Today we talk about this, about a time frame when we're going to do a piece after all these years where we haven't even made the Law of Compassion, let alone the first step to think or try to round up particles, I think it's really unserious and irresponsible in the end. Because only if we pass the Cooperation Act can we have arguments and say that we have the law, and that nothing has been done under that law. When the law is passed, and I believe given what we have heard today on behalf of all clubs that we will vote on this law and accept it, adopt it by consensus because we are more or less in favour and we all agreed that it is necessary and necessary. And when we start to apply this law and determine which initial mistakes occur to us and where we cannot implement this law, I don't think it will be a problem at all to bring about a certain change of that law again in order to implement it as best as possible and lead to the very goal that we all share, which is that the Croatian farmer on the European market is competitive and that every Croatian farmer who really wants to do what he wants to do, which is to deal with agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107993	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. In your debate, you raised concerns about the ability of local units, or local leaders, to carry out these rounding processes. I'd say there's not even a question of maybe some ability, but rather the elemental will to work on it by now. Thus far, local unit leaders have had an obligation to round up land, and even for that purpose, dedicated funds were allocated during those re-uses of agricultural land into construction land, a fee was paid strictly for it. I'm afraid on the fingers of one hand, if you can name so many examples that those funds are really used for it. It seems to me that without a certain kind of to say so, coercion or harsh sanctions against units of local self-government that don't work on it, there won't be any of this talk at that local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107995	Thank you. Answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107996	I thank my colleague for the replica. Yeah, well, here's what we agreed on is both the ability and the will. Unfortunately, I said no to that as it were said, I really doubt the ability of certain leaders of local self-government units for the simple reason that we all witnessed that a large number of them did not even carry out the responsibilities they had. So this is an extremely large bite, and what I really appeal to is that first of all, they are being taken out in a way because if they are not speakers on the ground among their citizens, what a commission is, and how much cohesion means to anyone in that same area of the local self-government unit, I think neither the ministry nor the agency will have as much influence as that leader can talk about it. So what I'm really underlining is that first of all, we educate the leaders, we make them do something, because ultimately it's them who decide whether they want to be, it won't be, whether something is or doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107997	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107998	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Well, they were still replicas and we have a esteemed colleague, Pandek. Here you go. And you already had a replica, then nothing. Then we can move to the last club, it's the HDSSB club, the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic will expose us on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u107999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished deputy minister, co-workers and colleagues in the afternoon say one poet, "The Company is small but chosen.". So here's the law, the legislative proposal on the combination of agricultural land in the second reading, which therefore respected all those, mostly most of those remarks and proposals from the debate on first reading and which, according to their intentions and by what it is intended to achieve, in what way, how, and also because we withdraw both EU funds and funds from so-called funds. Structural and cohesion funds to facilitate this process of cohesion. And the HDSSB club will be for this legal proposal. However, here some before me have been making some difficulties that may occur on this journey, but I have already said in one replica that this law really wants much and much to begin, so the Deputy Minister said that the first stage of this plan is the implementation of the Law on Cooperation by 2020 and that it includes about 90, maybe up to 100,000 hectares and then perhaps two more stages of the same number of hectares, and a total of about 300,000 hectares in the Republic of Croatia would be combined. Some have talked about the fact that only half of the municipalities, therefore the grant and cadastrian balance, the situation with private owners of the power plant in the Republic of Croatia, which were introduced neatly grant and catastrian, are arranged books, so half of the municipalities, but here it is good to know and know that there will also be a process of harmonising the grant and cadastrian books and thus the exercise of ownership rights over what is said to be a communicative gromad or about the particles covered by the composition. So that's settled, but what doesn't end up solved and yet we have certain doubts that is that 400 square kilometers or 40,000 acres, excuse me 40,000 acres of still untapped surfaces in the Republic of Croatia. They're also in my Boat-Posavina County. And we saw the other day on television an optimistic announcement that Vukovar-Srijem County, one of the most polluted counties of mines and mine explosives will be during this year, so now whether in summer or a few months later will definitely be cleared and cleared of such funds. So now we ask what if in Slavonia in Brod-Posavina County we still have the forest duster it should be called a duster because it's really a forest, the only forest in Europe that really has the properties of the real forest, but it's called Prašnik so that if there are certain commercial procedures on the surfaces that are suspected of the presence of mine explosives? That's one question. Another question that would actually be more appropriate to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is that some books were introduced not only by agricultural particles as ownership of the Republic of Croatia but also by building particles we know that after the Homeland War, after certain people who were before the owners appeared, private owners did not show up from what Mr Horvat said for various reasons, so the state of Croatia signed up as the owner of these particles. Is that going to go into business, will it go for sale, will it go anywhere? And will the Croatian state definitely resolve the status of those particles that once had a private owner? Furthermore, when it comes to the country of former PK combinations as they were not all called and where in that country of the former Yugoslavia, the country was taken away for the same reason of the conflict, and in connection with the rounding up of the country of these PKs or PKs, in what name, so those older and survived and still remember what particles were theirs, which entered into the composition of the PPK and received some other particles, mostly poorer qualities and in remote places than those particles were before when they were not combined in favour of PICs, PPKs, etc. Today, many of these PICs are privatized, such as we have Belje, Vrbovac or I don't know I won't mention names and those particles that were once private property came into the composition of these PICs and it's hard to extract from the private owner again and ask for it to return to the previous owner. So it's also one of the problems, but it seems to me it's more of a subjective problem than it is objective. Every peasant every let's say a citizen is tied to that country and remembers well what was his. And that's what I'm saying is a subjective problem regarding the emotional attachment of man to the country. And that doesn't even have to be judgmental. That's right. Here someone said Mr. Bilek, the world resources of the country from which food, food production, water and energy are produced, but today world resources are information. Croatia sold the information, the banks were sold, we still have water, so we have these resources of land and water, the energy of lila here will be the drilling of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea by mostly foreign companies, so we've messed up a little bit, but in a resource called water and land we're not really poor. If I've already told you in the replica, if we don't make and compass, we'll create these particles, the lumps as it's called, God forbid they're giants that the peasants have in one place or at least 2, 3 particles that have possessions that would be profitable, which would then be competitive in the production of agricultural products with foreign peasants and with foreign producers of agricultural products, so whether or not here I have a certain fear even though it's said here in response that they're renting and concessions for 50 years and so on. So even those who are interested, but will remain a particle regardless of concessions, leases and everything else, absolutely certain. So Europe will help us, it will never help us without a bone and free, it is all included in the later possibilities Europeans will get when the moratorium comes out to buy the Croatian agricultural land, and it is going to be in 7 years, right, 7+2 or 5+2 I don't know exactly how it is. 7+2 so that's what we need to think about and count on. It is also true that our grant books and some cadastrian books are very, very precisely drawn and written with a beautiful writing of property since Mary Teresa, or from Austria-Hungarian. And I had the opportunity to see one of my particles on which I built the house that when I was pulling out the garter that was just data and drawing, the floorwork and everything that was just from the time of Austro-Hungarian or before 1914 or 18, and that we still had a change in the sequence of owners, and that the particle was still on the one who has been asking God since when, and people were selling and reselling their country several times. And in fact, there was no registration of the owner who is the current owner, and neither did the past. They bought neatly, traded land but didn't come to the country's judicial, grantous transfer. This combination is definitely going to get rid of these particles. Here I am in this flight, optimistic, elan, the enthusiasm I am not always the bad guy and the pessimist of every law, I am pleased if we are to carry out this legislation as it says in this legislative proposal, and of course, it is difficult to say it as much as possible in view of the problems that have not been done before, but here we will be able to manage the registrations in both grant and cadastrian books, so that will include the Ministry of Justice, the Gruntovnica and the Ministry of Construction, and the spatial arrangement, especially in connection with the meliorization, the provision of roads, channels, etc. They have more ministries, it's one matter he deals with and he can deal with and he'll have to deal with more ministries at once. What I recorded in the law itself and what I was going to comment specifically on about what is directly written in some articles, which is Article 71. The cost of compromise relations says so in the design of the programme referred to in Article 4 of the development of an idea project, the implementation of professional geodetic jobs, land assessment, construction and plantation, editing, and so now that I don't read because we all have a law ahead of us so we can read it, and in fact, together with the assessment of the ministry will be about 3,000 kuna per hectare. Someone says that, it seems to me that it was an observation that it was small, I think it is quite enough and that it will not require such great costs in the units of local self-government and regional self-government units mainly because here if it says, it was, in January, a rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia and a plan of membership, i.e. the regional consolidation was accepted, the programme is and will be paid from the European Union's funds. Maybe a little bit off time, with a delay because we know what the payments of the European Union are, first do it, and then we'll pay you later, that's it. But that is so, so is the rest of us in the European Union, and so is we. Article 75 states that units of regional, i.e. regional, regional self-government in which the area is established that there are unfinished procedures for the delegation and, as another step-by-step body, the competent authority designated by the central authority of the State responsible for the property legal transactions in the composition of the prescribed one. It is precisely what the processes of editing books, grants and cadastrian rights of ownership are not completed, it will be, if the particle is affected by the composition, completed in the course of the commission itself. Which is excellent, here I am quite the opposition angry, but here I can't say anything against solutions like this that actually work things out. There's something else that I don't understand, and that's Article 8 that's a land that, by its nature, has a permanent plantation, for example. The orchard and now let's have an orchard which is 15, 20 years old, so it's in full kind, or a vineyard, it doesn't matter...... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mine's a 50-year-old orchard, so it's a great birth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So he's also born at 50. So permanent plantations and says this in Article 8. On agricultural land which is the way of use of vineyards, orchards, olive groves and ponds, a combination can be carried out only if the overhalf majority of their owners agree to this, and the exceptional combination can be carried out without the consent of the authorities. But I am curious, or obviously a small article, where it says that they are going into business and plant you with a fair fee. Well, now it's actually picking up a process of composing. If you pay the old owner, if the value of these fruit trees is paid, will the regulation determine how much fruit. How much fruit, is she in her native age, is she just planted, etc. And will it come to this now as some, as during some other governments were, so there will be a bridge, so we will, or overpass, and we will buy land there. So we'll go now... We'll better plant the orchard, the vineyard, etc. In order to achieve perhaps a better price in the business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it wouldn't be such a problem just.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108000	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to an individual debate. The first one came from a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. I don't see him here. He's losing his right to debate. And the next is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108001	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. I volunteered for the debate to clarify some of the allegations that I made during the morning replicas and about the proposal for a Law on Cooperation. And in a certain way explained all those elements and previous issues that I find necessary to resolve in order for the project of cohesion to really be realized. First of all, I'm going to say that I certainly support the intention of passing the Law of Compassion, which is more like '79. It seems to me that a law was passed that was later amended in 1987, and that in the modern Republic of Croatia we did not pass a new Law on Cooperation. It therefore clearly points to the need to pass the law itself and to the good that it is in the parliamentary procedure and to be discussed. However, the fact that the law was not passed during the time when the sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia was established tells us that its adoption is necessary, demands certain advances which I consider to be the assumption of the adoption of the Law itself. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia in the last 30 years, I don't think there's much experience in the affairs of co-operation. And I, as a person who comes from the geodetic profession in contact with my fellow geodetics, know that very little experience is owned when it comes to the implementation of the commission. And why the law itself did not take place and why Croatia did not take a major step in the part of this agrarian project. It is primarily because agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is particularly in the coastal part and part of which the geodetic measurement was made in the first half of the 19th century so messy that it is almost impossible to implement and implement within a reasonable period of any co-operation. And that's why it didn't happen. A little while ago, my colleague Grubisic was also talking about that when he went to the garnery he took... which is based on the data of the first half of the 19th century geodetic measurement and is unfortunately almost total, such a situation is on almost the entire part of the coastal Croatia, and in large part in the rest of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past 25 years of 3500 catastrian municipalities in Croatia, only 350, so only 10% of catastrian municipalities are covered by a new geodetic measurement. Of these 350, a new cadikatre and a new land book was established in only 100 catastrian municipalities, and in these catastrian municipalities, kodikam would be simpler and this law would be very easy to implement there. The remaining 100 catastrian municipalities are in the process of exhibiting a cadastrian apparatus which also because of the problem in the Land Book Act requires a long, long, long time so that after a geodetic measurement that is made and which is not cheap, then this process until the land book is formed lasts for years and then slows it down further and... and also a composing if we are already talking about composing. A hundred municipalities are in the process of a new geodetic measurement with an unknown deadline for the establishment of a katastre and a land book. So that's just what I'm saying in 10% of the Catastrian municipalities, the remaining 10% has an absolutely unsettled cadastre, an unsettled land book. So when we here in the Parliament and talk about it, we're talking about how we should coordinate the cadastre and the land book. That's not true or there's a need, because one and the other records are very bad, and one and the other records are messy. The state geodetic administration is required, according to the Law on the Cataster and Land Book, every 5 years to coordinate the catastra with the real situation on the ground outside the cities, and in cities every 10 years. This is not done, therefore the last such harmonisation was done 50, 60 years ago. Therefore, it is not true when we say that first of all we need to coordinate the cadastre and the land book, but first of all we need to edit the cadastre to bring the land book into line, and it seems to me, it does not seem to me, but I am sure, in a large part of the area where I come from, and I am not speaking in the entire part of coastal Croatia, because it is almost impossible to do with this state of catastrases and land books. I, I keep saying that, when we passed the Law on the Law of Law on the Law of illegally built buildings we then planned for the Republic of Croatia to legalise objects in Croatia... at 5 to 6 billion kuna and that these funds were spent on making new geodetic measurements and catastra real estate. However, according to my information, such a provision, or I know, has changed, and unfortunately of those funds that should have been the basis for the construction of the catasters and land books, has given up, and we are still in a situation where we have this very important record. I also said this morning, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia annually for the registration of his vehicle pays between 2 and 3.5 thousand kuna. Every company, a company in Croatia every year for its own vehicles owned by tens of thousands of kuna. Thus, insurance companies in Croatia collect annually for registration of vehicles, be careful, between 5 billion and 6 billion kuna. And the entire project of registration, records of the most qualitative properties and properties of the Republic of Croatia is land, we are not able in 25 years, and I do not see in the near future that we will do this, invest 4.5 billion kuna to what it would cost the entire new cadastrian measurement in the Republic of Croatia. So because we're not doing it, which we're not doing, unfortunately, this law will, with the best intention of making it happen, be very difficult to realize. Furthermore, I do not think and knowing the costs that can occur in the design of the elaborate, when the project is being implemented and assuming that the costs can occur in that part, that 3000 kuna per hectare, and knowing that we have to make, not always, but often times when there is a change in the road network, the road network in the space for which the work is done, when we know that we often have to change the network of melliorative channels, that 3000 kuna per 1 hectare is the intended price for the realization of that project. So I'm not sure that there would be enough 840 million kuna for this plan to really be established in the Republic of Croatia under this law. I think, knowing the prices on the construction market and everything that happens with a co-composition project and a demand that appears on the ground to make it real, when we know how much it costs to make... the basis for the commission, I think 3000 kuna is an inappropriately small amount for the realization of the overall project of cohesion as foreseen by this law. So now I'm not going into whether or not it's possible to secure both small funds between me and the budget of the unit of local self-government when we know that last year, by amending the Income Tax Act, or by amending the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, we took 2 billion kuna from local governments, and perhaps around 500, 600 million kunas, we compensated by amending other laws. I therefore believe that the units of local self-government were not exactly fiscally encapsulated until that amendment, especially after this amendment. What I was about to say is, I think that, with this law, the government should have proposed immediately to the Parliament and this multi-annual programme of membership, that we Parliamentarians, in parallel with the adoption of the law, discuss this as well. However, I do not believe that the government is going to make this promise by law, which is that it will indeed be discussed in the Parliament. Namely, there was a government's obligation to discuss the Croatian Parliament's Transport Organisation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. If something is important for the Republic of Croatia, it is a transport connection system. At its 189th session, the government brought this important document away from the public's eyes, although all the laws governing transport and transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia ordered that this be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I welcome this idea of discussing it in the Parliament, but I do not believe that the government will do so when it has not done so for any important segment of the development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108002	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108003	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I will not be malice and mean, but I hope you do not claim the market as it is said in some parts so that you declare this price of 3000 kuna too small given the government's possible shift I do not know if it will go out in another government at 12,000 kuna. I don't know how much that's gonna be. But what I particularly wanted to say is that in the Republic of Croatia are formed and some new catastrian municipalities. I insisted with Minister Orsat Milenic, the minister of justice to form that municipality that was wiped off the face of the country, which is Borčevac, therefore in Lica, at the time of World War II in '41. 27.7. and there are other municipalities that have been deleted from the map geographically. However, they are still called Zrin, Spain and some other places and villages sometimes with quite a large number of inhabitants because not to say by the amount someone says. Although the number of inhabitants is not quantity. So I was informed that Mr. Miljanic, therefore ordered the grantovnica and she acted and founded the Kastastar municipality of Boricevic. Now there's the composing. Since we know the situation of the country's usurpation, etc. I don't know. That's one question for you as an expert in the area, but also for the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108004	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, will be found on the market. Why did I say 3,000 kuna was a little bit? So here's an example that maybe one of our colleagues here in the Parliament has been through in the last year and a half, the cost of geodetics is the only one in the process of legalizing a building. How much do you think it costs to go out on the ground and make a little elaborate to legalize a building? Ask if you didn't legalize and you'll see, only the geodetics, no architects, etc. etc. Now, to claim here that three thousand kunas will cost the entire project of co-operation. ... A hectare that, by one hectare, per hectare that it will cost me 3,000 kunas is too little. [[You can't hear it.]] I wish it was 500 kuna, but knowing the prices on the market that are emerging, I think it's too small. Let's get this over with. Let's get it over with. But I'm saying it's gonna be small. My wish is to be bigger, my wish is to be as small as possible. Therefore, I hold that that's the case. The other thing is, if you're talking about arranged catastrian municipalities. Now, that's another thing if we're talking about a settled land book, about a built-in cataster where there are already all possible catastrian correct topographic backgrounds, where all the networks are being drawn up, etc. etc. It's right at the beginning that it's costing the whole project. But we don't have it. I tell you we in Croatia have everything, if we have, we do not have but three percent of newly established grants and cadastres in the Republic of Croatia. So it's not like we're going to do everything that happens in the business of doing that 3%, but we're going to, I'm sure we're going to work on that 97% where it's not there. And that's why I'm saying it's too small. I'm sorry, I wish that were true, but it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108006	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108007	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said there was no law-making and law-altering for the sake of broken books. Now there's a direct question. So in your presentation, you said a series of remarks, and we can even say suggestions that are supported by facts. It's a long way off. But here you are now saying that there are some municipalities where the books are arranged. Shouldn't we wait for the whole of Croatia to be taken care of and the commission stands. Or that we do a parallel process and that for those areas where we can do the commission to get the commission done. Because here we had here in the presentation of my colleague Grubisic and I mentioned, and some others touched the unresolved issues of the 25-year-olds. Now, and here in this law, there's that option and possibility, and there's a way that these questions are going to end, and we're going to do that part slowly. Because if we wait until we're done with all the land books in the Republic of Croatia, we won't start this process in 90 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108008	Thank you. The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bilek, I participated in the creation of a state-run programme of accelerated geodetic measurements and real estate catastra then as the head of an island municipality 18 years ago and then a state programme was adopted that was to be adjusted and implemented annually. And according to this programme by 2020, Croatia should have had a completely new cadastre and a land book. That didn't come true, unfortunately it didn't come true. And I'm telling you that the assumption is not only in this commission, the assumption of investing in Croatia is making catasters and land books. We have passed countless laws that encourage investment. We have passed the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects. All these laws are welcome, but they all end up breaking down at a time when a single project is to be realised because the situation on the ground is unsettled and I keep saying it and repeating it. I'm sorry that we were able to ensure that this project was implemented, we didn't realize them for rerouting them. I hear the government had needs, primarily because of the floods that took place in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, where it was necessary to quickly intervene with the funds to resuscitate houses, that a large part of the funds that were raised by the basis of the legislation of illegally built buildings there were directed as clearly acceptable, should be realised quickly. But it's a fact that we tap in place when it comes to that important record in the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you to set it up, and so I said it would be good if a multi-year comcommissioning programme had come to the Parliament, so we could, then I might argue differently, if I knew what the cadastrian municipalities are, which are the areas that require accelerated co-operation in Croatia, and then we decided to make these cadastrian municipalities a priority. The priority may be some urban englomerations in Croatia that also require the production of catasters and land books, where certain projects cannot be realised or delayed for several years until the property-legal situation is settled on individual particles. Therefore, I agree with you that we know what these projects are. I'm sorry, it's been a while. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108010	Thank you. And now we would like to give a word to the esteemed Deputy Minister, Mrs. Snow White, who will give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108011	Thank you very much. Here's the part of the question I gave the answer to, and now I'm going to try to give it to the rest. First of all, I thank you for your suggestions and very good and positive debate, thank you all. Here, about this law and everything we've done, I'd just like to give a little chronology because it was said here that we've just prepared the law. So, the draft law was drawn up in the 3rd month of last year, I stress, following an analysis of the procedures for the implementation of the commission in other Member States. So we took data related to the implementation of the comcommissioning procedure in Slovenia, the Netherlands, Sweden, we heard in East Germany but also in some other Member States and we saw that in Slovenia, we contacted them, the average cost of about 500 euros per hectare. Guided by these analyses, of course in other countries there is a much higher cost, it crosses 1000 euros per hectare, but given the proximity of Slovenia, we have made an average. So 3,000 kuna is the average cost. Of course it's going to be bigger somewhere, where there's going to be a channel network, a road network, so rebuilding. And somewhere where it won't be necessary will be lower than 3000 kuna. So we did an evaluation, an analysis, we had a public hearing that lasted two months. The government passed the first draft of the law in the 7th month last year and the law was held in the Parliament at the 10th month of last year. This is a second reading. Thank you, everyone who made the proposals, we adopted a large part of the proposal during the debate. And we hope that the law will therefore, even though it is said here, be enforceable. What I want to point out is that this procedure in Croatia, which you all actually said almost in your discussions, has not been implemented for very long and will certainly need to intervene, some things are clearer but it is important that we go. It is important to proceed to this process where conditions will exist, and then everyone else will, when they see good examples of positive practices, settle their issues regarding both the cadastre and the grantovnica in the area of their unit of local self-government or county. What we combined with this law is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land where we have directed part of the lease income not only to co-finance rural development measures for units of local self-government, so to rural infrastructure, but also to carry out comcommission procedures. Therefore, local self-government units will be able to co-finance part of the costs. So we co-ordinated with multiple laws, so we put together that part of co-financing. The issue was about the funds of local self-government units and the units of local self-government and their inability to finance it. I would just point out that, thanks to the Croatian Parliament and the adoption of the Agriculture Act, agriculture is defined as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. If this is at country level then it should also be at the level of units of local self-government. And one of the most important agri-technical measures related to agriculture is exactly the implementation of the commission. Finance is secured through the rural development programme, as well as through income from the lease. As for, I can't remember exactly now, but regarding what we offer young people and what is with a small man, I would just like to point out here once again that for the first time therefore the Republic of Croatia has chosen a measure through the rural development programme, this is measure 6, which refers to investing in small OPGs and investing in young people. However, it is not only through the rural development programme that provides additional incentives for young people, so measures where they can use 50,000 euros to start farming, but also through direct payments, additional incentives are provided per hectare for young people, and through the programme available to state agricultural land young people have 10 points of 100. So, and here they get extra to so say motive to start dealing with agricultural production. Compared to all other measures, young people can also use 70% of the investment support compared to others who can use 50%, so that the whole set of measures actually goes towards young people to enter agricultural production and start to deal with it. With regard to small OPGs and their entry and empowerment, I would disagree with those who have said here that the production of between 3 and 5 hectares is not profitable. I'm talking about Croatia as such because 5 hectares on the sea or on an island is very much land, but they can produce fruit in the back of our islands, produce vegetables, so they can produce cultures that have higher income, more added value, can then join together, make small processing plants so they can do a lot of things on smaller surfaces. And what we always point out is both small and large, it's actually important to produce, to process and to create additional value. And the small OPGs will be able to use 15 thousand euros in support of measures or investments through the rural development programme, and next week, a tender will be launched. What is important about this measure because there have been talks here on both state and private agricultural land is that through these measures they will be able to purchase private-owned agricultural land where they will receive 100% return. So this is the only measure in which the total cost of land purchase can be financed from the EU Rural Development Fund. And we believe that this is a significant step both for young people and for young people who have one or two acres where they will be able to buy another one or two acres through this measure, increase their production, their property and then apply to the investment measures in agricultural economies related to processing and marketing. Therefore, a whole set of inter-related measures has been designed through laws and programmes aimed at all agricultural producers, but the emphasis is on young people and small OPGs because they can make a significant step through joint projects in certain parts of Croatia where agricultural production is so far almost non-existent. The establishment of cadastra and land books, for the establishment of cadastras and land books, namely we have made an analysis and we have seen that, unfortunately in the state budget, there are not enough financial resources for certain things and that was precisely the motive and reason for us to propose one of the measures to be financed from the European Rural Development Fund when preparing the Rural Development Programme. What I want to stress and is said already at first reading is that the financing of these costs to the agricultural producer, because it was a question of how much it costs him and what it gets all the costs are financed from the European Rural Development Fund because in all measures where the beneficiary of the local self-government unit is almost all funding through the rural development programme 100%. And that's why it went to local self-government units, because if we went to the agricultural producer they could get 50% of the support maximum. And that's exactly why we came up with a model like that. The final result is the enrollment, so the final result of the commission is the enrollment in the owner’s office, or in the grantovnica of the property resolution. Why? In this case, the farmer can offer his or her land as an instrument of insurance in the event of a loan for investments in agricultural production. So either buying agricultural machinery, or getting some equipment, or building a facility, or building a farm or anything he needs. Currently, they cannot offer the country as an insurance instrument because they are located only in a catastro which is owned and the bank does not recognise it as an insurance instrument or as property. It was also one of the motives why we went into the process. With regard to the price, I will point out once again, so we have made comparisons and analyses, we have contacted colleagues, we have even had workshops with experts from the EU, from the Netherlands, Slovenia and Cyprus, from Cyprus, we have also been in Cyprus, and we have made a proposal that, in some period of 14 years, about 840 million hectares of value of around 840 million kuna and in the 2015-2020 programming period, so a total of 90,000 hectares of agricultural land be estimated at 270 million kuna or 45 million kuna per year. As provided for by the Rural Development Programme. Thank you very much. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108012	Thank you. After all, we have one replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy, I have expressed my position knowing indeed what the costs of all operations are in the process of co-commissioning, I will not say all but the great works of especially preparing the commission that this is almost impossible. You yourself said that it is 1,000 euros in some other countries, that in Slovenia it is indeed about 500 euros. However, it is very important to know whether an average price of about 1000 euros was settled as a previous issue of property law. You know very well that the entry into the commission represents a statement of land. When you on the particles of mostly unsettled catastrian municipalities establish a land statement where over a hundred to two hundred registered owners almost lose the will to carry out the commission. You yourself said that the ultimate objective of the commissioning is to enroll the owners in the garland that is the purpose, that this land is then going into operation and that it can be engrossed, that fiscal or mortgage burdens can be charged etc. etc. But in the case of unsettled property-legal relations, the end-user of the commission is the owner, and the entry in the land book remains on the former owners. Therefore, we did not do much if, as a result of the commissioning, the entry into the land book is again 150 or 200 owners who were in the land statement which was the previous issue when it even starts with the commissioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108014	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Agriculture will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108015	Here's a little bit. So the law says that a contractor will be chosen based on a contest, this is about evaluations. And I stress somewhere there will be more prices, somewhere there will be a lower price depending on the competition and on those who will submit to the grant tender. A new land book will be established after the procedure of cadastrian changes has been carried out and will be registered under official duty as owner. This is the ultimate result of the rounding process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108016	Thank you. This would end the discussion of the text of this law, and we would vote on it when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108017	We are going to decide on the laws we have done in the Croatian Parliament this week. Final proposal of the Law on the Komasation of Agricultural Land, second reading, P.Z. No. 687. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the DC, New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists. I ask the representative of the Ministry's Government of Respected Snježana Spain, Deputy Minister of Agriculture to be seen as an amendment to this club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108018	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108019	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108020	The proposer does not accept the proposal because it is of the opinion that, in order to complete the comcommissioning procedures initiated prior to the entry into force of this law, the Consummation Act of 1987, which was in force at the time when the unfinished proceedings were initiated, is applicable. It is precisely for the sake of the fact that the Commission has amended the proposed provision of Article 75(1) in order to complete the proceedings for the commission, in accordance with the provisions of Article 36 of this Act, for the area of the unit of the regional self-government in which the unfinished procedures of the delegation are established, and as second instance, the competent authority is the commission designated by the central authority of the state administration responsible for the property-legislative tasks in the form of the prescribed provision of Article 37 of this Law. Legal certainty is achieved precisely through the application of the Law on Cooperation which was in force at the time of the initiation of proceedings under them, rather than the application of the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108021	Thank you, too. In the name of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108022	Your Honor, ma'am, I couldn't agree with this argument of yours. You will force the authorities of the Republic of Croatia to apply the law of the former state. So for 20 years, this law does not apply, and now the bodies designated by the new law will apply the old law. It is absolutely a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular Article 3 and I am really surprised that you are simply not applying the new law to all those procedures that have started and are not completed. I'm asking for a vote on this because I think this article will cause a number more recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108023	Thank you very much. I ask you to vote on the amendment to the New Wave Club of Representatives, the People's Party of Reformists, the DC, which the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 17 abstentions and 1 vote in favour of the adoption of the Law on the Komassation of Agricultural Land in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108024	Now we'd move on to the next proposal. It is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber, second reading, P.Z. No. 720. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Please welcome Madam Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Snježan Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108025	Thank you very much. Here is the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber. Compared to the text of the bill, the first reading in the Croatian Parliament in the text of the final draft of the law has resulted in some differences as a result of respecting the views made during the first reading in the parliamentary procedure. The membership of the chamber has been arranged in a way that shows that membership is voluntary and that the membership of the authorised agronomist commits to respecting the rights and obligations arising from it. The professional conditions for obtaining the status of authorised agronomics or for enrolment in the list of authorised agronomies shall be detailed. The powers of the chamber relating to the granting of consent to the establishment of the office of authorised agronomists, the work of the office of authorised agronomics, and the identification and seal of the authorised agronomics shall also be prescribed. The establishment of a registration committee which, with the chamber’s professional service, participates in the implementation of the enrolment and approval of agronomies authorisation, thus enabling the rapid establishment of the activity of the chamber’s work in the conduct of the enrolment and approval or the withdrawal and restation of the agronomies authorisation. Provisions related to the code of agronomic ethics published in the National Journal have also been amended and apply to the code of good agronomic practice. In a clearer way, it is regulated to be able to stand still for an authorised agronomist when he is elected or appointed to a public professional duty or if he is employed in public administration bodies or local, area (regional) of self-government and public advisory services. A more detailed administrative oversight of the work of the chamber and the ministry's reporting obligation has been prescribed. The text is arranged in a way that it is apparent that the exchange of representation of members of the Chamber Assembly refers to professional directions, that the tightening procedure is initiated following the submission of an interested person to the tightening bodies of the chamber, and the conditions under which direct enrolment of the list of authorised agronomies may be obtained within a limited period of time. The Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber will institutionally regulate the framework for the evaluation of the expertise of the agronomics, continuity of monitoring of current trends, technological changes and professional progress, and the monitoring of the expertise and responsibilities of authorised agronomists at expert level through the work of the chamber. After the entry into force of the law within 30 days, a commission will be appointed for the implementation of the first elections for members of the chamber body and the election assembly of the chamber, and no later than 6 months, the first elections for the authorities of the chamber, the chamber assembly, the chamber board, the chamber supervisory board, the chamber president and its deputy will be discussed. Within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, a rule on the issue, renewal and confiscation of agrinoms for the conduct of private advisory agronomic services will be adopted, as well as on the conditions, content and method of passing expert examinations. Financial means for the operation of the chamber shall be provided from registration, membership, payment of services, donations, and other sources in accordance with the law. And for the implementation of this law, funds were provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2015 amounting to EUR 100 thousand in the same amount for 2016 and for the amount of HRK 50 000 in 2017. Finally, I would just like to point out that two chambers within the Ministry of Agriculture, therefore the Veterinary Chamber and the Chamber of Engineers in Forestry and Wood Technology have existed for almost 10 years. The agronomic chamber here with this law would revive. So also related to the Agriculture Act that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy and agronomies get the right place for what they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108026	We thank the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We'll move on to the debate. First of all, we are going to the clubs and first of all is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's the minister said in her closing statement that there are already two chambers here, and the agronomies are after so many years that she's passed that they need to have their own chamber, so here's how much she's going to be effective is going to depend on those people who are going to be members of the chamber and eventually how many people who need the chamber she's going to use, in the end how effective she's going to be. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would say that the most significant amendment that took place in this law between the first and second reading of the law is the extension of the deadlines of limitation, i.e. a longer period of time, of the right to initiate proceedings for harder and easier violations of duties, and of the reputation of the authorised agronomism and the regulation of supervision of the work of the chamber and the obligation to report to the chambers. Two key things that literally did not change from first reading to second reading, which not only of us at the HDZ Club, but also a large part of the MPs were warned about only small cosmetic changes. The first of these concerns Article 1(2) of the Law, which stipulates that agronomies which carry out professional and advisory tasks and which are subject to the professional authorisation of authorised agronoms are necessarily joined in the chamber. In the final proposal for a law, Article 1 has seen two amendments. Firstly, it is prescribed that agronomists who carry out professional and advisory tasks are voluntarily joined in the chamber. And in order to carry out these deeds, they are given professional authority, authorized by agro. The second amendment to which paragraph 3 is added in Article 1 which provides that authorised agronomic membership is mandatory. I would conclude that the change actually did not occur because membership in the chamber for authorised agronomies was still mandatory, so it is not clear what the ruckus was about adding items to which nothing really changed. The second amendment refers to Article 25, which speaks of the suspension of membership in the chamber. This change gives the authorised agronomic the possibility of the suspension of membership and authorisation in the chamber. We believe that this possibility should have been converted into an obligation and that an authorised agronomic operator who performs tasks that are incompatible with the tasks of an authorised agronomist or for personal reasons must submit a request for the suspension of membership in the chamber. The final draft of the law stipulates that an authorised agronomic officer may apply for a stay of membership in the chamber. So he can, but he doesn't have to. By way of a firmer provision of this article, we would resolve the concerns of overlapping the business of the public, private sector and avoid any concern in any conflict of interest between agronoms carrying out a public duty and so on. private. Similar provisions have other laws that regulate the issue of chamber membership. Thus, the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology states in its 26th article that the authorised engineers’ membership in the chamber rests among other things and if he is elected or appointed to public, professional duty or is employed in the bodies of the state administration or local and regional (regional) self-government. And when I first read the law, I asked you a question we didn't get an answer to. Perhaps taking into account the fact that we will now get the approval of the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia. In the rural development programme in the section relating to advisory services and farm management, you have limited access to advisory services, family holding companies twice in three years. I ask you this question because one of the 378 remarks of the European Commission on the rural development programme was also an invitation to the Croatian authorities to explain why access to advisory services is limited to twice in three years. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club do not want to believe that this provision remains an integral part of our rural development programme because this will mean an additional financial burden on our agricultural producers. Generally looking at the law that will protect the interests of agronomists we need but we think we should set stronger criteria and separate and public from private advisory services. It is in everything that I have said that the question is raised, and I said at the very beginning if we have claimed that this agronomic chamber is needed to ask the question and here it was said, voluntary membership and membership that will be paid. In any case, both ultimately and those of our discussions on the Committee on Agriculture itself, it is evident that the agronomic chamber will still have its membership, but that those users of the agronomic chamber are, above all, the people involved in the agricultural activity will certainly pay for the services they need. Of course it's another burden for our weary and ruined agricultural production anyway. But God forbid that it is to believe that both the Agronomic Chamber and the establishment of this Agronomic Chamber will help develop our agriculture and ultimately benefit everyone who seeks its services and benefit, as I always say, more production in Croatia and that Croatia is not dependent on imports but self-sufficient in its production. Whether we're going to do it with the Agronomic Chamber, whether with all these laws that we're changing these past days we're going to actually succeed, of course I'm asking myself a question, I'm asking you a question, and that's what our public interests the most. If we succeed, if we really do everything for the benefit of the Croatian producer then we will certainly be satisfied, but otherwise if it is not then the Agronomic Chamber, then all of these laws that we are making today, and we think that the benefits for agriculture simply will not be worth anything. But let us be convinced that we will still persist in what we want and that we will turn Croatian agriculture into one income production and that as Croatia in the future we will see not with increasing imports of agricultural products but with reducing imports of agricultural products, which means that we will increase production in our economies. They were alive and seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108028	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, in the opening part, Mr. Lucic said a lot. I agree with most things, and with some things, of course, we have different opinions. First of all, what we agree on is that most of the professional organisations or we call it so the foresters, veterinarians, and others, have their own chambers that not only worry about how and how they will do their jobs but also care about them as such, in this case for agronomists, but also care about the regularity and certain regularity of work, means from codes of conduct and from everything they do. This law means that we are establishing a Croatian agronomic chamber that stems from several situations. First of all... what you said yourself we have major problems in Croatian agriculture. It's been trying to sort things out in different ways. These chambers, which have been established so far within the Ministry of Agriculture, were thought to be sufficient. A few years ago, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was also established and tried through the Association of Farmers in the Republic of Croatia, that farmers on their backs will in some way help with the establishment of the Croatian Government then, with the support of this Assembly, however, it has been shown that not everything has been done and that everything has not turned out exactly as expected. In order to represent and coordinate the common interests of the protection of the public interest and the protection of the interests of third parties, agronomists who carry out professional and advisory tasks are voluntarily joined in this Agronomic Chamber, and for the exercise of which they are given professional authority. So we have, in this case we're also setting up authorized agronomies. Sometimes we wonder what our advisory service has meant to us now that it has done so far because it has mainly done agronomies. Sometimes the question arises and is often asked whether we need the Agronomic chamber in this way. I think she should have earned it. What is through the advisory service proved to be on the one hand positive, on the other hand negative. We have advisory services and advisory offices that work really well, who work fascinatingly, who spent all day in the field with farmers, were cattlemen, it was warlords. I have here to highlight the Daruvar Advisory Service, the leader of Mr. Bistrović and his two colleagues who work with him because whenever, as a farmer whenever I needed help, we did everything. The first projects we've written together, the first funds that have been received from support. The only thing I can't say is that it wasn't good when the 50% return on the capital investment was introduced, but then it was wrongly set on what could have been spent on those funds that were being recovered. Not maybe because the farmers did what they wanted with them, but no one showed the farmers what was waiting for them later and warned them of other things. And all those farmers who then used those capital assets to reinvest them, to cut the principal, to pay off part of the loan, we can tell you that today they breathe easier, to keep their heads above the water in such a difficult situation. But we had a lot of examples because we didn't have those funds to be spent on purpose, we had a lot of examples where houses, cars, etc. were bought. And we came up with some big problems because then when the war started, our people just saw that they were wrong. Professional management through agricultural projects through the withdrawal of funds from European funds is precisely the idea of part of what the Agronomic Chamber should do, or people who will be employed in the Agronomic Chamber. I welcome several accepted amendments, here again today I will commend the ministry in terms of accepting advice and remarks that have come not only from the ruling but also from opposition clubs of representatives or from committees that have really passed this law well. First of all, there is Article 9(2), which has been amended and where it is classified, meaning the proportionate representation of members of the congregation, the chamber, because it must refer to professional directions. So it's one of the very important things that we don't have a chamber to look at one side, so that we don't have all the members of a congregation that are warlords, say, or cattlemen or something else. The other thing that is very important is that they are adopted and accepted remarks and Article 1 that you said that it is not good may not be the best. But these remarks which are respected here regarding membership in the Chamber and obtaining the agronomial authorisation that it is voluntary and that membership of the authorised agronomics commits itself to respecting the rights and obligations arising from it. I think it's a positive shift that certainly showed good intentions and good faith to sort things out. The code of agronomic ethics must be published in the National Journal, and what is important is that the provision itself is extended to the code of good agronomic practice. It means that it has to stick to everything to help our farmers to endure, to improve the quality of their production. And I'm glad that there's an extended way of monitoring the work of the Chamber and the obligation to report to the ministries, so I hope that we and this House will have reports about how it works, so that we will be able to respond in certain parts, complaints, but I hope and praise to all of this. On the other hand, I have to say that what was between these two readings this one short bill, but a positive law in establishing one positive means a chamber that, in a voluntary part, would bring people together. Those who want the authority normally have to be mandatory in that part of the chamber. I think it's a very good law and we'll support it on that side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108030	Thank you. The following came to the debate on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108031	Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. So, my colleague Bilek is in the opening part I wanted to replicate, but since I'm behind him then I'm going to use the debate now to say a few words. So it's very nice when a representative can commend his county, when he can commend the work of the advisory service on the ground. I also mentioned in my first reading, so the problem of Vukovar-Srijem County especially in the 1990s, at the end of the 1990s, when the advisory service within the county had no agronomic livestock orientation. And then the advice was given by going to certain counseling, and the information was transmitted from these counseling sessions. So it wasn't very good. But we return to the proposal, that is, the final draft of the bill on Croatia's agronomic chamber. In her opening statement, the deputy minister herself said that the bill, and we also discussed it at the Assembly Committee on Agriculture compared to the first proposal, had some changes and additions. Now, of course, the opposition did not like these changes or supplements mostly or could have been more, while the position was satisfied with all of them. But very briefly. Therefore, the proposal, the final draft law, establishes the Croatian Agronomic Chamber and establishes its basic structure, part-time work, public authority, membership and self-financing. The Chamber shall be established primarily to promote the protection and representation of the interests of agronomics and agronomic profession as a whole, and to provide and promote primary, advisory agronomic services. Therefore, this bill will allow private advisory services to be formed and I myself, although locally most debated and as a former employee of the University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer, that ten years ago, the need to form a private advisory service appeared because, as I said, it was very difficult to serve. At one point in the Republic of Croatia, to employ 1,000 people would not be sufficient for the advisory service to do its job adequately, professionally and highly quality. So this is how we do market liberalisation and we allow those who have certain knowledge and experience in life, in their business to apply it and, of course, because they are in the market for manufacturers, farmers, agricultural food producers and everything else will be allowed to choose those who are the best quality and the best who provide a price service. The Chamber aims to represent and coordinate common interests, the protection of public interest and the interests of the so-called third parties shall voluntarily associate agronomies that carry out professional and advisory tasks, and in order to carry out which professional authorisation they are granted, they shall actually be entitled authorised agronoms. It has never been a case in the Republic of Croatia before. And I personally believe that this will be as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has said that he hopes that finally agricultural production will come to life. So agricultural production is a very complex activity. So in order to be a good agronomist, you have to be a good economist at one point, you have to know the cost of benefit calculations, you need to know the production balances, you need to know, if you are orientations, so livestock orientation a little bit be a veterinarian, you have to be a lawyer. So, manufacturers in this form as they are. So, I repeat, the Republic of Slovenia did not use this pre-accession negotiations with the EU and invest in its agricultural producers as did the Republic of Slovenia. And unfortunately, we are in this situation where we are, which is that the average information or level of knowledge of one agricultural producer compares it with such a producer of the Republic of Slovenia, Austria, the Netherlands or Germany is far below a normal average. And unfortunately, I sincerely hope that also authorised agronomists, therefore by obtaining that status and by forming a private advisory service, will be able to contribute to the overall increase in agricultural production by their own advice and if we are to be very honest and open person who will do such a advisory service, she cannot do it in a salon, so from the office, she must go to the field, face production, see what these problems are because every family agricultural economy is dared to say this to herself. So you can't uniformly use one postulate at all. So, compared to the text of the bill that passed the first reading several weeks ago in this House, the text of the final proposal has led to certain amendments and additions as a result of respect for the position, political views, expert positions during the debate in the first reading in this parliamentary procedure. Therefore, a number of information is arranged to join the chamber in such a way as to show that membership is primarily voluntary and that membership of the authorised agronomist undertakes to adhere to the rights and obligations arising from it. The powers of the chamber relating to the granting of consent to the establishment of an authorised agronomics office shall also be prescribed. The work of the authorised agronomist as well as the card and stamp of the authorised agronomics. So I personally don't see any reason why agronomists don't have all those benefits that they had, say, authorized builders or building engineers or authorized architects. The establishment of an Association Committee which, with the Chamber's Professional Service, participates in the implementation of enrolment and approval of agronomies, thus enabling the Deputy Minister to make sure that the activity of the chamber in the conduct of the enrolment and approval, i.e. the withdrawal and restation of the agronomic authorisation status, is rapidly established. The administrative oversight of the work of the chamber and the reporting obligation of the ministry itself has been detailed. The text is arranged in a way that shows that the proportionate representation of members of the Chamber Assembly refers to professional directions, that the tightening process is initiated following the submission of interested persons, etc., etc. So, what is very important to stress at the end of this debate is that the basis of this law is that it will be passed and the regulation appears to me 6 months after the adoption of this law which will speed up very, very quickly, so of course it will not be seen in a short time frame but I repeat, I sincerely hope and believe that the formation and liberalisation of the market in this part of the serious producers will provide a serious private advisory service and serious information to improve agricultural production both in warfare, livestock, wine growing, vegetables, etc., etc. Therefore, very shortly ahead of the SDP Club, they can conclude that the club will support this final proposal of the Law on the Agronomic Chamber for the simple reason why we hold that it is good, quality, comprehensive and that it will ultimately result in an improvement of agricultural production in all segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108032	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, we will hear the distinguished representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108033	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. As will previous clubs and the HDSSB club, it will be brief to discuss the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber. The previous clubs also praised the establishment of the Agronomic Chamber to a greater or lesser extent. We at the HDSSB club, of course, also have nothing against the establishment of Croatia's agronomic chamber, we want it for a purely reason that we sincerely hope that this chamber will be able to help our farmers and that our Croatian agriculture will finally stand on healthy feet. He experienced this final draft of the law of a certain change in relation to first reading. They're good, they're very correct and concrete. Therefore, Article 1 has already been discussed, Article 1(2) states that in order to represent and coordinate common interests, to protect the public interest and to protect the interests of third parties, agronomists who carry out professional and advisory tasks are to be voluntarily joined and to be given professional authority. Therefore, membership in the Croatian agronomic chamber is not mandatory, it is mandatory for authorised agronomies to carry out the tasks prescribed by this law. So it's commendable and I don't see anything controversial in that article. Furthermore, what has also experienced changes, Article 9, which says that the Chamber provides for a proportionate representation of members of all professional directions. Very commendable, so of the 15 members of the congregation, we will have both cattlemen and wares, orchards, vineyards, winemakers, etc.,itd. Therefore, all those who in their part of the profession are prominent experts and will surely represent the goals of that part of the profession. Now Article 17, agronomic code of expertise, I am pleased to see that code prescribing how it is implemented, how an authorised agronomist must carry out his work. In addition, the price list of services, therefore the chamber assembly, determines the prices of authorised agronomies and the price of chamber services, and, with the prior consent of the ministry, adopts a regulation on the prices of those services. I consider this a positive article because I hope it will not be possible to pay for the same service differently in Karlovac, Slavonski Brod, Dubrovnik. Therefore, it will be prescribed and in all parts of the Republic of Croatia will be the same price for a particular service. What I'm interested in is an article 25 that talks about the rest of the membership in the chamber. Therefore, the authorised agronomist shall have the possibility of standing still of membership and authority in the chamber if he is elected or appointed an official, if he is an employee of the authorities of the state administration or of the authorities of the state administration or of the authorities of local and regional self-government, if he is an employee of the public advisory service and on a personal request. But what if the question arises as to what if an authorised agronomic authority moves on to such a public professional duty and does not report it to the chamber assembly or the body that decides on the status of rest? What are the consequences for him and what are the criminal provisions for such agronomics? It is therefore referred to in Article 26 of the Code as deleting from the list of authorised agronomies, where it is established that, with the operations referred to in Article 25(1), (2) and (3) of the Law which are incompatible with the tasks of the authorised agromony, the tasks of the authorised agromony as well as in the case of carrying out the tasks of the authorised agromony for the duration of the stay of the authorisation. However, whether he is obliged to report to the chamber that he has started to carry out some kind of public duty because Article 28 below the notification of the chamber says that the agronomics is obliged to inform the chamber if he is legally convicted of a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia, for a criminal offence against official duty and for a criminal offence committed out of benefit. So it's not mentioned anywhere, it's not mentioned anywhere related to Article 25. Insurance of liability Article 30, which states that the agronomics is obliged to ensure responsibility for the damages that a third party might do to the third party, we consider the same to be a good article. Therefore, there will be virtually no concern from those users of authorised agronomic services if certain damage is done, and the damage to agriculture can be huge and extremely large. One year you've been screwing up production for practically 10 years, you can't get away with it. It's a good insurance thing. Now, Article 33 for serious violations of duty, the reputation of an authorised agronomist may be given this measure of reproof or fine. Article 32 speaks of the serious injuries, but I believe that reproof, perhaps that part should be erased, may be just a fine even if it was symbolic but probably quite different, quite different from a simple reproof. It is about that through the articles, I say the HDSSB club will support this final bill because we believe that with the establishment of the Croatian agronomic chamber perhaps brighter days and a better future for Croatian agrarian. In any case, a good bill of law, the Agronomic Chamber, I hope, with successful action and what is very important, therefore, that our farmers and agricultural producers will have the possibility or use of the agricultural advisory service of public or authorised agronomists or ultimately of no one. But if they do not want to use public agricultural advisory services, they can use the services of authorised agronomists because they may feel that they are more professional and that they will be resolved more quickly, that the project will be written faster and we do not ultimately have anything against the establishment of a Croatian agronomic chamber than we welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108034	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to individual debates. Here we have one debate between the distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's already a lot in the discussions so far about this bill, and I'd just like to underline some of the things that I think are important to this legislative proposal that I've talked about in other words even when I first read this law. In fact, we are facing the fact that most of our farmers are people who work intensively and live on it often and do not have time or for various other reasons do not have enough knowledge to optimise their yields or to optimise their production. As a result, there is also a agricultural advisory service that helps them to learn their rights, to inform themselves about legal solutions and what is important for their work as well as for the work of the profession, but also because we live in the free market, the need for regulation of the profession in this case is the authorised agronomies. And why is it necessary to regulate the profession? As the agronomic profession continues to appear on the market and on the market and in the provision of advice and in other services to farmers it is necessary to license, it needs to be accredited or standardised. So it's not some new practice, it's a practice that already exists in a certain so-called. regulated professions, they're architects, they're doctors, they're dentists. In the rest we talk about a lot, and here's when we talk about education, we talk about licensing professors, teachers, teachers. So I don't see anything that would also prevent agronomies from being licensed, accredited, or their profession being standardised. The more they perform independently on the market, the more they offer their skills, their services, and the need to ensure quality, the standard is to ensure that the people present on the market are top-level, the service they provide is uncut, and that they also have official accreditation in order to actually provide the end-user, in this case to the farmer, or the person who deals with agriculture, that the advice, or the service that they will receive, is truly top-of-the-line. The colleagues before me also mentioned a new moment, which is the volunteering of the chamber. So all agronomies don't have to be chamber members, as we did in some other chambers, for example, the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, so where membership is no longer mandatory. Therefore, only agronomists who wish to perform on the market and offer their services should access the chamber in order to obtain the necessary accreditations or so as to be able to substrate to their parties that they are therefore authorised, that they therefore have the necessary knowledge and that they will also receive the service they are receiving and receive the service they are paying. So for these reasons, first of all, the volunteering of the chamber, then what it offers, or what it prescribes, as well as everything else you mention as colleagues before me, this legislative proposal that should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108036	Thank you very much. And since we don't have anyone further for an individual debate, we're now going to give the proposalant's word to the esteemed Mrs. Snow Whitespanjoll.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108037	Thank you very much. I would only read the government's amendments to the law, during the debate we received from the Legislative Committee. Therefore, Amendment 1 to Article 2 which is changed and reads as an agrom within the meaning of this Act is a person who has an educational qualification of the scientific field of biotechnical sciences a field of agriculture acquired in the Republic of Croatia in another Member State or in a third country, which, in accordance with specific rules on the recognition of the foreign educational qualification of agronomics, recognises foreign educational qualifications. The proposed amendment 1 to the provision of Article 2 The final draft law is amended to comply with the provisions of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. It has also entered into force the EU Parliament and Council Directive of 20 November 2013 on administrative cooperation through the information system, the internal market with which all EU Member States must comply by 18 January 2016. The new Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications is intended to comply with the Directive mentioned in the adoption procedure. Amendment 2 to Article 5(1) of the wording of the agronomial list shall be deleted as a matter of repetition, and a new point 7 shall be added to point 6 which shall be read as the competent body for the regulation of agronomic professions shall carry out the process of verifying the conformity of the foreign educational qualification of agronomics with the appropriate educational qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia and the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in accordance with the specific legislation adopted by the chamber. The proposed amendment nomotechnically adds an expression given that the short name is not used in further provisions of the final proposal of the law or point 7 of the regulation of the educational qualification, rather than professional, and regulates the question of the competent authority and of the specific rules governing the recognition of foreign educational qualifications as part of the professional qualification or recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of performing the regulated profession of agronom. Amendment 3 in Article 22 paragraph 3 is amended and it is said that in the Republic of Croatia has completed a university degree study, a specialist degree study, a postgraduate specialist study, a postgraduate science master's study, a postgraduate university study, a defence of doctoral dissertation outside of studies and a similar study according to previous regulations of biotechnical sciences, a scientific field of agriculture or an educational qualification of glass in another Member State or in a third country if it is recognised as a qualification corresponding to that acquired in the Republic of Croatia. The conformity check procedure will be prescribed by a special act adopted by the chamber. The proposed amendment is amended in order to comply with the provisions, regulations on regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications and to add paragraph 3 which equally treats educational qualifications acquired after the completion of a specific study programme in the Republic of Croatia. And here's just let me have a few more sentences, so I'd just like to say that the existence of a private advisory service or regulation dates back to 2007 when it was prescribed by the Law on Agriculture, unfortunately the private advisory service in the Republic did not revive. The intention of this law and authorised agronomies is that young agronomists who finish the Faculty of Agriculture are ahead of us rural development programmes, it is a lot of projects, so that the authorised agronoms of those who pass education, who are authorised to assist agricultural producers in the preparation of projects, because we are also aware that all agencies and advisory services and all those who help farmers are not yet enough for all that is available to us. And in this way we can also hire young people, empower them to prepare quality projects and help with one take-off of agricultural production and invest in agricultural production. Regarding what has been said to be voluntary, therefore it is not mandatory membership, and those who are authorised after that are mandatory members. As regards Article 25, it is prescribed that the authorised agronomist has opportunities, it is now listed 1,2,3.4, and paragraph 2 states that the authorised agromist referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 which performs tasks incompatible with the tasks of the authorised agromony which are subsequently defined in the text of the law or which, for a personal reason, submit a request for a stay of membership and authorisation in the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108038	Thank you. We have also completed the debate on the text of this law, and we will vote when conditions are obtained. Tomorrow we will meet again at 9.30 and the first item will be the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2013. Thank you. Session adjourned at 16.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108039	Final draft law on Croatia's agronomic chamber, second reading, P.Z. No. 720. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were delivered within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister's esteemed Deputy Minister of Agriculture to Snow White Spain. Deputy Minister, please note the amendment of the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108040	... in the final word, during the debate it was accepted and it came into the form of an amendment and was accepted as an amendment to the Government. [[The speaker is not understood because of a loud announcement.]] It is therefore accepted during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-23-0.u108041	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 17 abstentions and 1 vote against, were passed by the Law on the Croatian Agronomic Chamber in the text as proposed by the proposing, together with the amendment adopted.
