ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u96596	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u96597	Congratulations. I congratulate my colleague Krnić on his oath, I wish you success in the work in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104950	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can start working. Clubs aren't looking for any breaks, no one's going to comment on the sun's eclipse, okay. Then we move to: - Environment report in the Republic of Croatia 2014. (term 2009 to 2012); Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Croatian Dokoza, Deputy Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104951	Honored MPs and MPs, respected esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, the Environment Protection Agency draws up an environmental report at national level every 4 years. The focus is a four-year period, although most of the changes in the environment can be observed and numbered only over a long period of time. The data shown in this report shall have a distance of 2 years, i.e. contain data based on 31. 12. In 2012. The report was drawn up in cooperation with 40 state and public, and scientific and professional institutions of all sectors having an environmental impact. The data are the basis for carrying out the overall environmental assessment and for assessing the objectives of basic, strategic and planning documents in the field of environmental protection, the Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia and the National Environment Action Plan. This provided guidelines for action not only for decision-makers in the environmental protection sector but also for other sectors as well as the basis for assessing the eligibility of measures and activities carried out. The new report is the introduction of key questions for each chapter to which a brief and clear answer is given. The environmental components in the reporting period from 2009 to 2012 were the reduction of emissions from major air pollutants, which contributed mostly to the measures implemented by air protection policies. Climate change, greenhouse gas emissions are decreasing, the Kyoto Protocol target has been achieved, the greenhouse gas emission limit for 2008-2012 to 95% of the 1990 value. Water, pollution emissions, water's down. The number of wastewater treatment devices increased from 101 in 2008 to 117 in 2012. The sea and coast, the ecological state of Croatia's largest part of the Adriatic, remains the highest level of quality. The soil and land, in the Republic of Croatia, has established 13 locations, so-called Black dots and by the end of 2012 a total of 4, in the recovery process 6 and three locations are in preparation. Biodiversity, a proposal for the Natura ecological network, which covers 36% of the land area and 16% of the sea surface. 3984 species are protected, making up a total of 10% of the property. Environment and health have increased the life expectancy of citizens on average for both sexes to 76.7 years, as well as the expected years of healthy life average for both sexes for 60.8 years. With regard to sectoral burdens, space building and demographic burdens, the population is reduced with an increase in artificial surfaces, resulting in greater demands for citizens in terms of taking up space. Regarding industry and transport, the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the total electricity consumption in 2012 was 28.7%. In primary energy production other renewable energy sources, energy from the sun, wind, geothermal energy, biogas, liquid biofuels share 3.2%. Their growth was significant and increased by an average annual rate of 102% in 2004-2012. The building sector is the largest individual consumer and represents the greatest potential for energy savings. Agriculture in the total area of Croatia, crop land is represented by 27%, land is increasingly used in accordance with the principles of sustainable production. Fisheries and aquaculture are working to establish a continuous monitoring and monitoring system of the marine environment. Tourism in total GDP took part with 15% and is a significant economic branch of the economy. The number of visitors in national parks and nature parks is growing. Of course, in order to better protect protected areas, it is necessary to deploy more evenly the burdens of parks by investing in the visitor's infrastructure in line with sustainable development. And waste management and material flows, at the end of 2012, decreased the amount of waste produced by 7% compared to 2008. The share of municipal waste that has been delayed at landfills since 2008-2012 is reduced, down from 97% to 83%. Since 2008-2012, the number of dumps recovered has increased from 63 to 112. Recommendations to improve the situation, the report makes recommendations to improve the state of the environment such as strengthening the cooperation of institutions, involving the business sector in environmental protection, strengthening the system, monitoring. Part of this report has become part of the European Environment Report published on 4 March 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104952	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the club... Yes, on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104953	Dear Vice President, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed it at its 37th session held on 22 October 2014. Report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2012 as an interested working body. It has been pointed out that this report period and marked the alignment of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The importance of this document is highlighted in which 178 indicators were processed and the esteemed interaction of certain areas. The main positive and negative trends for some thematic areas are given and the following are set out. In Croatia, as a prerequisite for sustainable and balanced development of the country, the high development of the highway network has been achieved and developed by the European Union. The objectives of politic development are not met, so we have an unbalanced settlement, which is an increasing pressure on cities and the trend of leaving rural areas. Demographic trends remain negative, insufficient progress has not been made in the area of cleaner production, a decline in energy consumption and a reduction in industrial production as a result of the economic crisis, as well as a reduced amount of waste produced. The air is mostly clean or slightly polluted, we have enough water for our own needs and information that most of the Croatian Adriatic remains the highest level of quality. It is argued that there are still illegal waste dumps and that much more should have been done in this context and the need to make strategic environmental impact assessments in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that the Environmental Report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2012 should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104954	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of fellow Ronko. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists, Branko Vuksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104955	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, the Independent Left-handed Club will support the report. The report is comprehensive, so we are Croatian, independent of Croatia, comprehensive. Actually study and it's nice to read it, you get new knowledge, it's transparent, you actually get a good picture, and I even think it's a real picture. So there are no disputed points in the report itself and congratulations to those who worked. But it's past time, we analyze what it was and what it is today, but we need to turn around here for what it's going to be. A colleague spoke on behalf of the board, I read the committee's report, which was spoken on the board. One of the biggest problems is actually you know and they're people themselves, the biggest problem. We still feel that we are stronger than nature and that we can control nature, but nature well knows that old, nature without us can, and can we people without nature. We can't. And nature if we're going to stick to the fact that we didn't inherit nature from our ancestors, we've already borrowed it from our grandsons and our great-grandsons, and if we're going to treat nature like this and the environment then there's some future for us. It is certain that when we look at the picture of the environment, or nature in the world that Croatia has no reason to be deeply concerned, unless we follow someone, if we do not look at some announcements, let's say the survey of the Adriatic, gas, oil, but I'll talk about it a little later. For years Croatia has been at the very top of the European sea and is absolutely safe in the world. I don't know who was in the famous Caribbean and you're sailing on a boat, you need to sail a few dozen miles to get clean water on those Caribbean and to get to the Caribbean Islands and islets. It's seas without smell. You cross Učka today, and you smell that Mediterranean smell, the smell of the Adriatic, and it should be kept for as long as it sounds silly now, as the pupil of your eye. Now the question is, there's a dilemma whether we're going to die of smell or hunger. What to do, because we know that as soon as someone takes a shovel in their hands there is a group of people who yell no in Croatia. No Adriatic research, I don't have answers right now, so I don't have answers, I'm not an expert in this area, I'm a general-type politician, but I have questions and I'm trying to answer myself. So we want to investigate the Adriatic, we say no, we won't explore the Adriatic. We want to build a power plant, we say no, it'll pollute the environment. On the other hand, every little bit here we talk about how new jobs should be opened. Can new jobs be opened without endangering the environment? You can be absolutely sure, but then we need to build a new strategy, a strategy that will not be just a matter of one club or club of the one who is ruling or coalition, but of everyone in the Croatian Parliament and we need to agree what Croatia wants in the next 50 years, what kind of country it wants to be. Whether it wants to be a country with a clean Adriatic, whether it wants to be a land with no too much poison, whether it wants to produce healthy food, organic food and be the center of ecological food in Europe. And when we agree that we want to do that, then we know what's going on in the Adriatic, what's going on with the exploration of gas in the Adriatic, what's going on with the exploration of oil and what's going on with the exploitation if it's in the Adriatic, gas and oil, which is all that's expensive on the long stick, which is then going to work. We must not forget about that either, I am talking about one of the strongest things that Italians, that Montenegrins, that Albanians drill the Adriatic, explore and exploit the Adriatic especially the Italians. That when it happens in the Adriatic Sea, if it happens on the Italian side, the Adriatic Sea isn't that big that we wouldn't be threatened. Another thing is to see what tourism means to Croatia. How much tourism we can earn, and what would mean is a smaller seam, means smaller proportions so that our neighbours and Greeks and not literally neighbours, but countries that are close to us and the Spanish, and the Italians, too, will make sure that they make an ad about the unclean Adriatic that threatens health if it happens. However, there is that the thesis of people who are prone to drilling the Adriatic to sail the great tankers daily in the Adriatic, and these tankers are also a great threat, perhaps even a greater threat because we do not control them from the draining water to that it can happen that tanker simply leaks out, that some hash and pollutes Croatia's Jaran. Is there any answer to that? No, we don't have answers. I'm asking questions. But we should discuss here, we should do some expert analysis and then make decisions afterwards. Why are we in terms of purity at the very top? Well, first of all, and because we destroyed all the industry. We have no one to pollute, or if it pollutes very few of these contaminants. Well, twenty years ago, in the 1990s, if you remember, they were often on Croatian television, which was the only one since the national televisions of the 1990s when you had a report that this and this factory dropped into that stream or there and that river of uncleanness, and then it was discussed. Today it is no longer debated, for there is no more anyone to flush water that would pollute drinking water. There's less and less of those contaminants. And by that, we've lost more jobs. Less and less employees, more and more unemployed, are all, the ratio between pensioners and employees is almost 1:1 which Croatia will not be able to bear. Now the question is, again it's a question of what industry. Do we at this time know what kind of industry Croatia will be, which will stimulate. Of course, the government cannot run the economy of the Republic of Croatia alone, that it must be negotiated, that it must give incentives, that it must be stimulated, that it must be connected, that it must create frameworks. However, if we knew what we wanted then it would be much easier for foreign investors as well as for domestic investors. One of the biggest problems being said here, I spoke in a comprehensive study, not in the report is traffic. We are one of the biggest polluters in Croatia are cars. When we talked about traffic, we mentioned the railroad and we mentioned the relationship between the railway and the road traffic. How many goods are transported on Croatian highways and how many Croatian railways? The ratio is 2:8 in favour of road traffic. In other countries that care about their environment, but also care about being competitive, making it as cheap as possible to transport goods to ports or to their destinations is the opposite ratio. So more, it's cheaper on the railroad. How little we think and how clean the sea is and how clean the environment is, the relatively clean air of chance tells us about it. Let's say I take an example of Zagreb. Zagreb, which at no time despite what is said to have, so far and we still have a genius, I say it with the irony of the mayor who has built a lot of things, and he has built parking lots in the city centre. And told everyone in the city center, you're all driving, stimulate as much gas as possible, as much smell in the city of Zagreb. What do we do, for example, European centres that are thinking about what kind of air is going to be 50 years? They do parking lots, they do underground garages on the edges of the city, they stimulate to park there. Even some cities have when you buy a parking ticket it's also worth public transportation and public transportation to the city center. However, in order for you to come from Dubrava or come from another part of Črnomerec to the city center, just because traffic is jammed, it takes you an hour. So we're not planning on it. What happens to the Croatian environment is that we are fortunate to do nothing or do little under quotes and not develop enough. But just the city of Zagreb is an example of how badly planned and how little thought is being given about what will be tomorrow. One of the cancer wounds, so other than the traffic that we don't have a full traffic strategy, cities that don't say they have a traffic strategy. You know there are cities that stimulate cycling and public transportation. We in this, says the City of Zagreb built 70 km of cycling trails. That's a notorious lie. Cycling trails are drawn on narrow sidewalks, half the bike trail takes that car beak, the front part, and the other half you can't even get through. When you're driving a baby cart, it's amazing. You're afraid of being killed that some cyclist will crush you, child. Zagreb does not have 70 km of built paths, there are drawn lines which are actually the biggest fraud and there is some big money because it has spent quite a lot of color and spent some steps and actually the cyclists, very few cyclists in the City of Zagreb have. Not to mention some other cities not to be stimulated here. And one, at the end, I'm one of the bigger wound cancers that's gonna be waiting for us, remember those pictures from Italian cities when you're looking at or some other cities when the residents are suffocating in the smell because no one's driving the trash. We have seen examples of Croatian Adriatic cities that have no place to dump garbage. The same situation will be experienced by the City of Zagreb, which is not about the disposal of waste, and it is spent, and there the DORH should wrinkle, so much money that we could make a waste management centre for all of Croatia. What's done, where's that money? Nobody knows that. He probably doesn't want to know because there's too many people in the biggest business, and the waste business is one of the biggest businesses, connected and there's a lot of silence. What will happen in Croatia that does not have a dump, which does not have a good waste disposal strategy and when will we start choking in the smell? We're already starving in hunger, and we sure as hell will get in the stink. So, the one we own in our own households. So I say and I repeat once again that our air is clean, which is a crystal clear sea for us, which when you come to the islands you can't believe how beautiful Croatia's Adriatic is is just a coincidence because we were insufficiently "smalled" under the quotes of Todorovic and other tycoons are not interested in the sea or in waste management because it would be even worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104956	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104957	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, I will continue here where my predecessor stopped and paraphrased a sentence that I said that ecological Croatia is a paradise on earth, full of life we can say for what we paid 2.8 million kuna for. We've destroyed the entire industry so we can't talk about pollution. But what is it about this study? This is about energy, it's about industry, it's about transport, it's about agriculture, it's about fishing, it's about tourism, it's about waste, it's about islands, etc. I'll start with the junk, meaning the Buzet compost. This really belongs to the waste head, although only those who unwisely can push that plant into the heart of the Buzetski ski, meaning, the heart of the Buzet hole, bringing thousands of tons of chicken and turkey feces 500 meters from school, kindergarten, hospital, playground, first settlements, houses, etc. You know what an absurd thing is? Slovenians said don't compose, and that team wants a replacement location in Buzet. That can't go. In Slovenia, the European directive, which is prescribed from Germany, cannot be built 500 metres from the first houses, or closed 300 meters from the first houses. Croatia, this country case, not a random state don't give God that someone wouldn't replicate it to me because too much blood has been shed for that country, doesn't prescribe that matter. Let them build a composite but not in the heart of the city. And why does Croatia not prescribe this matter? Because waste management, like my predecessor said, is a big business, and it's best to hunt in gunpowders like us. When we talk about energy and air before that, I will only mention these demographic trends where it is said that in the 20-year period the number of inhabitants in Croatia decreased by 10.7% or 510 thousand people. The number of live births decreased by 25.6% 14 212, but at the same time decreased by 2.25 years. Then it is further said that the migration balance until 2008 was positive mainly from BiH with the highest values of '93. 48.5 grand, '98. Forty-four thousand, and since 2009, it's become negative. And then it is said that Croatia, at the average age of the population, is 8. in Europe. Then it is further said here in this report that Croatia is reducing energy imports. On Sunday, the referendum was held on 29.03., without any effect, late, absolutely late Plomino 3 referendum. I want to believe that Labinjani or Labinioni will be against it even though the whole of Istria should be manifested, and if not all of Istria then with Labinština and Cres and Moscenička Draga, part of Opatija, because it is certain that they should be or should be affected by this pollution, so the ecological rent should also be shared. When we talk about these platforms that my predecessor was talking about, I'm just saying that 73rd in the northern Adriatic, we found respectable gas reserves, in '99, at the time the HDZ government was headed by Mr. Matesha, closing a concession with the ADP. From 99th to today, it is exploited in the northern Adriatic, and in the 15th year, no incident occurred, neither in Italy where gas efficiency was 20 times higher than in Croatia. There's no need to be afraid of the platform, if there's anything to be afraid of, it's the ferry. Only the Anamarija platform 30 milli actually draws 1/3 of Croatian gas from Istria. Since this is about the sea, since it is about the epicontinental belt of the County of Istria, there is no income from it. I would also like to translate Plomin C from coal to gas in the northern Adriatic as well as to translate all platforms into Croatian shipyards. A few days ago, the Croatian government gave the Uljanica, which I said yesterday was a guarantee for the construction of a 88m-euro platform. The platform alone costs 99.1m euros. So the state provides a guarantee, a financial guarantee for 80% of that amount in advance. So we see for ourselves that it's a huge, huge job. We simply have to do something, clearly that the coal thermo power plant will not, it is a cancer factory, regardless of what will ultimately cost 800 million and euros, and that would trigger the economy of the entire Labinština, the whole of Istria and perhaps the Republic of Croatia. And why, I mean, why is investment important? So just one piece of information to say, for the first time, what seemed impossible 10, 5 or 4 years ago, the gross social product of the Primorje-Gorski County exceeded the gross output of the County of Istria, so that the gross product of the County of Istria is 90 556 or 13 110 euros per capital, and the County of Istria falls to 95 298 kuna or 12 677 euros per capital. And what's even worse, in Istria, the gross product was 13 179 euros and 2012. 12 677 euros. So there was a 502-euro drop in just one year per capita. When we multiply it by 208 thousand people, it's a loss of 104 million euros, 800 million kuna. So if we want to survive we simply have some things to do or some things have to happen. A lot has been said before and about the railroad, I am now openly asking what will happen to the LNG terminal in Krk? Is that what I'm asking in the context of Plomina C? The Italian government recently gave the green light to build LNG terminals in Trieste, in Trieste they had previously opposed but mostly Slovenians not so many Italians LNG terminals, and now we see that they are all for. The question arises whether one Omishal can compete with Trieste, is Omishal another lost job, I will say centuries or thousands of years in the Republic of Croatia? Trieste is simply closer to the EU, there are far bigger consumers and normal logic is to go towards it. The term wants both Italians and Slovenians, we want to believe it too, I think, but Europe says it can only finance one. The one in Omislje would cost 630m euros, in Trieste 500m euros. The capacity in Omislje would be 6 billion cubic metres of gas a year, in Trieste 8 billion, so we can figure out what's just going to happen. So I said if we want to survive, we have to want some things, or we're going to. to pay now I don't know how much more 40 limes of excise duty per litre of gasoline. We now pay for lead gasoline 4.3 kuna per litre plus Croatian highways 20 limes, for Croatian roads 80 limes, for Croatian railways 20 limes and for unleaded ones, totaling 5.5 kuna per litre, and for unleaded gasoline we pay is 3.66 kuna plus these 20 for highways, 80 for Croatian roads, for railways 20 kuna which is 4.86 kuna. In one word, we here no matter what we are, we can't live under a glass bell. On the 27th side of this report, greenhouse gas emissions, pollutants, air and water from the energy sector were discussed among other things and it is said that greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sectors in 2012 decreased by 8.9% compared to the previous year while they decreased by 15.6% throughout the observed period. And then we get to page 50, and then we're literally talking about the assessment of the situation in the area, and it's said that in the last 10 years the total number is now going from there, and then I'm going to get to the industry, the personal vehicles increased by 11.7%, in 2012, there were 338 personal vehicles per 100,000 inhabitants, concerned by age, but when it comes to industrial production, it's said that at the end of the observed period, industrial production was lower by 16.5% compared to that in 2008 at 80% of 1990. What I want to believe is that, when the word is mainly in Istria, it will be financed 100% from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, not the county, the municipalities, thank God, and this should also be paid by the toll which is certainly the most expensive in the Republic of Croatia. All of this is being directed by Bukko and some of the disagreements with the company have been overcome in the meantime and it is clear that we only expect the work to begin as soon as possible. When we speak what should be done, beware, a man simply cannot believe today I simply read, it does not know whether he believes it or not that the head of logistics in the Croatian railways suggests that between Zagreb and Split they no longer drive passenger trains but that passengers are transported by buses. I just couldn't believe it. So because of the lack of a driver, we have to talk about it openly. Once again, I will appeal to the railway tunnel through Učka for the modernisation of the railway in Istria from Buzet to Pula, Buzet to Copra, from Lupoglav down to Stali, i.e. Bršice, because without major projects when the adaptation is put under quotes by Ipilon Istria will simply be without any major content. There is a clear port of Bršica and the port of Pula. Those must be Istrian priorities. Unfortunately, that's not what you're talking about. When we talk about agriculture, what this report is about, I'm going to put an emphasis on land policy. Peasants all, speculators should take everything. Since 2012. The OPGs are shrinking rapidly. 10 per day were put out in 2014 alone, which is simply a disaster but to the farmer all and the speculators who received what they would later resell for 100, 200 or 300 euros should take everything. Fishing, small fishing is a way of life, a clear sea needs to be preserved, the fish fund is what it is, it needs to be preserved, and everything needs to be regulated when it comes to waste, and between that and that compost matter. And not to say the Slovenians, the whole of Western Europe regulates these issues and in Croatia is being hunted in a blur because there are no regulations, there are no directives taken to express myself, slightly and roughly not respecting any standards, so everyone simply does and does what he wants. All in all interesting study, extensive, hopes like that wing "Full of Life" didn't cost 2.8 million kuna, I know it didn't cost nearly that much, and understandably we have no reason not to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104958	Thank you. We have a reported replica of Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, you've been talking about your theme of landfill, or compost in Istria, and as much as you've followed me with a smile, it's a very serious topic. Namely, if you look at the map of future large dumps in the Republic of Croatia and compare it to a geological map of large plumbers, a terrain where there are many underground waters you will see that they match well. Now that I'd say it was on purpose, I'd charge someone with high treason. And if it's not intentional, then it's the result of a lot of stupidity. No pre-work, I'm talking about waste disposal, there's no organized suburbs, especially in the major cities of selected collection, sorting out recycling yards and so on, and when that man believes that when there's no pre-work, that's when the dump will work perfectly. It seems to me that it's actually impossible as education should start with kindergarten and waste management should start with sorting at the place where the waste is produced and that's not done. It's not working in Zagreb, it's not working in Karlovac, it's not working in Sisak, I don't know yet, but here's to these cities I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104960	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104961	Yes, I want a normal, not as much Parliament as the Buzet public may just inform that nearly 750 signatures have been collected in the city's largest core, that it is dedicated to the mayor, or the president of the city council, and that we now expect that within 90 days, someone will take care of it and account for it. What will be the decision I don't know, I hope they'll finally be enlightened and say no to what they did to the raid at the 12th month of last year. In the 12th month they changed the GUP, and then within 20 days they concluded some pre-contracts and so on. We will see what kind of decision it will be, and we will decide accordingly whether we will go in the direction of the referendum or we will simply say so, so do whatever you want, but in the end, the citizens of that place will, under quotes, decide and judge. Once again I will say, no one is against nor such content but not 100 meters from the first houses, not 500 meters from the school, from kindergarten, 500 meters from the playground, 500 meters from the hall from the largest settlements etc.. You can't just locate it in the heart of a city. I am calling on people from the Ministry of State to take over the European directives. If in one Germany, if there are provisions in Slovenia that state that these composite open type cannot be 500 metres from the first houses or industrial plants then this should also be applied in the Republic of Croatia. These composite closed types can't be 300 meters from the first houses. Let's not simply through the gaps legally allow someone to hunt in a blur. Finally, there are no raw materials in Istria, no such materials in the Primorje-Gorski County. It will be necessary to drive from Italy, Slovenia, within a 60km radius of the city of Buzet. Don't let it happen to us that one of the most punitive Istrian towns becomes a dump the next day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104962	In the name of the HDZ Club, the respected Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, Mr. Director of the Environmental Protection Agency, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Environment Report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2012. In the introduction, I would like to say first that environmental protection must be in line with economic development. The SDG assumes the finding of a balance between economic development and investment of investments on the one hand and on the other hand of sustainable and environmental protection. The government that sets up this balance and enables economic development on the one hand, and on the other hand contributes to environmental protection, is a capable government which could not be said about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which first announced projects, and because of the ignorance or lack of desire for these investments and these projects to be recommunicated with the public, these investments are then being taken over by such projects. But before I make that clear, I would like to commend the Environment Protection Agency, which, within the expected time limit, has fulfilled its 4-year obligation to draw up a report. Namely, the report contains data with a time-out of 2 years, but this is the case with other similar comprehensive reports such as European Environment Reports of the European Environment Agency. 2 years ago, when we discussed the period before 2009, the agency committed that this report would indeed be with a 2-year delay and this promise was made and in this regard commendable. Namely, it is a quality overall report that gives full insight into the state of the environment in the period 2009-2012. The data and information in the form of environmental indicators contained in this report are the basis for carrying out an overall environmental assessment and an assessment of the achievement of the objectives of the basic strategic and planning documents in the field of environmental protection. The reporting period explained by this report was marked by intensive negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, which meant a significant job for the area of the environment. This is the period during which Croatia became a member of the European Union and this is the period during which the open negotiations in Chapter 27-Environment are also completed and during that time it is almost entirely, so almost entirely Croatian national legislation is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the area relating to environmental protection. This report shows that the legislative frameworks and standards of environmental protection other than the component of the soil for which there is a commitment and a major challenge for the Republic of Croatia to establish, in part, the legislative framework and control mechanisms, that all other environmental components are in a legislative sense and in terms of environmental protection through control and supervision are fully established. By the end of the year for which this report was written, compliance with EU rules has been almost completed. What concerns us is that we must say in the last year, the year 2012, when this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership. The report shows that a billion and 112 million kuna were invested in environmental protection in 2012, which is twice as much as in 2009 and 2010, respectively, three times as much as in 2011. This is not a good and significant reduction in investment in environmental protection in a certain way slows down, and not to say even the brake and obstacle is to meet those obligations that we have made in the area of environmental protection and when it comes to waste management and when it comes to water protection and when it comes to soil protection, the protection of the sea. It is clear that the Environmental Protection Act has laid down certain documents that should have contributed to speeding up and setting deadlines for environmental protection. In the chapter of environmental protection, the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment and it is necessary to protect the environment, protect water to invest nearly 10 billion kuna. Only the Republic of Croatia should invest 3.2 billion kuna in waste management by 2020. With this intensity, and even by investing, or by providing funding in the state budget, we will not make that deadline or investment. I said that the environmental law prescribed that by the end of 2014, the Government should have adopted a Waste Management Plan, in which all important segments with dynamics were to be manifested, for example, by 13 waste management centres. This is Mr. Deputy Minister. It would be good for the government to introduce us to why we are late with this basic document and then how to expect the units of local self-government that had to bring their waste management plans and which plans would be consistent with this central document, how and in what way would I not know. Not to say that it was already necessary to establish separate waste collection in local self-government units. All of this is well, well-lated and certainly one of the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced significant resources to protect the environment. And I'm saying, three times smaller in 2012 compared to 2011. At this point, the Government, although I am well aware of the implementation of activities in the construction of 13 regional centres, and I know that it is an extremely complex job that is not only dependent on the work of the government, depends on the work of the county bodies, counties and the work of local self-government units. But I still don't see any excuse that in three years of working this government we haven't launched except for the existing three that this government inherited, and this is Bikarac in Sibenik-Knin County, the Kastijun Waste Management Centre in Istria and Marinščina in Primorje-Gorski, I don't see yet a valid reason that the government has not launched any of these remaining 10 centres in terms of construction, activities being carried out, studies being done, documentation being done. But their performance contract didn't come true. Therefore, in the part in which the Government has a huge obligation to fulfil all those obligations that we have signed in the Chapter of the Environmental Protection for which we have received the transitional periods 2018 when it comes to the establishment of a complete waste management system. We are not intensities, I am afraid that the Government and the Republic of Croatia could also have significant financial problems, i.e. foames due to the failure of these obligations. One of the important components, if not the most important environments and which this report shows, is the condition of the Adriatic Sea and the coast. It is commendable that compared to the previous period 2005/2008. The ecological status of the largest part of the Adriatic has not changed, and can be further assessed by the highest degree of water quality monitoring shows that it was also higher than the European average during this reporting period. However, the Marine Strategy Framework Directive provides for appropriate documents to be adopted by the national Parliament. We have prescribed by the Environmental Protection Act that we will adopt a Strategy for the Management of the Sea Area, the Sea and the Coastal Area. She's expected in July. I hope that the Ministry will make its commitment to the Strategy for the Management of the Marine Environment, indeed and in the coastal area, and will propose it to the Croatian Assembly. Namely, the sea and the marine environment are of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia at any time we talk about tourism, anytime we talk about fishing, and how important it is that the government, how the Republic of Croatia will be set to protect the sea and the marine environment. So right away, I have to mention the government's approach to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic has already been mentioned. I believe that this job that the government entered is primarily illegal and I will explain it in a way. Namely, before, here is a short time ago, counterpart Vuksic, as a parliamentary representative, said he was not familiar and did not know that he was a politician if he said he was a general practice, that he could not claim whether or not it was not good for the Republic of Croatia to enter the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project. Look, one parliamentary representative, it's not his fault, it's the government's fault that didn't first of all bring the project to the Assembly, didn't make a strategy for managing the marine environment and the coastal area in which the strategy would be just about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. A strategy for the management of mineral raw materials as provided for by the Mining Act has not been established, the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia as provided for by the Environmental Protection Act has not yet been adopted by the Law on safety in coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Therefore, if we had discussed these four basic documents in the Croatian Parliament only after that would all the parliamentary representatives have been familiar with the risks, we would have been familiar with, because I suppose the cost of benefit analysis which brings us research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Let's discuss all aspects of environmental protection, discuss all possible risks and dangers that lead to the deployment of hydrocarbon research and exploitation platforms. This is therefore one level of illegality of the procedure in which the Government entered. The second level is that the Croatian Parliament adopted the Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia in July 2013 and that strategy we representatives of the Croatian Parliament found that in the area of the Central and Southern Adriatic, you can be careful to explore hydrocarbons. So gas and oil. It is not clear to me how from such a formulation and norm prescribed by the Strategy of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given itself the right to call a tender, watch out for research that is in line with the strategy, but also for exploitation. That to me, here I am still unable to find that link between the strategy this House has brought and which clearly told the Government what it can do. I don't understand how and how the government from such a strategy entered into the competition and for exploitation. That's the first thing. It's another thing. I don't get it, and that's what I've been trying to do. That's what I've been asking the government for a year now. I've been asking the Resort Ministry. In the process of calling for tenders, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, which is the interpreter of the Spatial Regulation Strategy, which adopted this Assembly, gave the opinion of the Ministry of Economy on the opening of carbon research and exploitation tenders in such a way that Minister Anka Mrak Taritash made clear in that opinion which is an integral part of the tender documentation that it is possible to call a tender for research, therefore neither she mentions exploitation, outside the territorial sea. The territorial sea is 12 miles from the coast or from the starting lines to determine the limits of the territorial sea, which is about 22 km from the coast, from the plank islands. How and how the Ministry of the Economy, i.e. the Agency for Hydrocarbons, opened a tender about 6 km from the island and 10 km from the coast, no one has announced this to the Croatian public today. It's never been made public. Therefore, not only is a tender for the exploitation of the opposite strategy adopted by this Assembly, but there is also this exploitation and this research, for this research and for this exploitation, a tender in the territorial sea, which is contrary even to the opinion of the resolution minister who is required under the law to interpret the Strategy of Spatial Planning. Therefore, it's a major failure by the government. The whole process was done without strategic assessment of the impact on the environment of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. Inadmissible, it is inadmissible that a strategy could be launched or carried out during the course of the procedure. It is the impression that a strategy that has not yet been completed is actually being used as a cover for a project that the Government has actually launched without that strategic assessment. So, absolutely illegal procedure. Because we did not include neighbouring countries, Italy and Slovenia under the ESPO Convention, they have now practically stopped our strategic assessment with their letter. When will that assessment be made? I don't know. And on April 2nd, so in 15 days, the deadline for the government to sign contracts with companies that have been authorised to explore hydrocarbons in the Adriatic is 12 days. Therefore, the clumsy, illegal, incomprehensible procedure of the Croatian government, here I am concluding Mr. Vice President, which I have already said many times that can ultimately lead to defamation of both the government and the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I commend the report to Mr. Director, which is excellent and we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104964	Time, thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104965	Dear counterpart Bačić, I am against it immediately, against drilling, exploration and exploitation of gas and oil in the Adriatic, personally. I say that I have too few arguments on which I can appreciate how much those who say, who claim as I do, I am clean for some reasons sentimental and even perhaps economical in the extreme case because if we pollute the Adriatic we lose tourism and lose what is really something beautiful. What you've been saying, we've said it many times. Look, you said illegal, illegal, and when the government does that, I mean, what picture is that, what message are we giving? Look, some powerful people get together and say we're gonna do it, but I guess there's one smart guy out there who's the devil's lawyer who says but it's illegal. So they say it doesn't matter. These are conversations, probably so, maybe they're a little more content than this. However, you mentioned the Environmental Protection Agency and in order to remember this Environment Protection Agency has been a black stinking hole in which it was stolen for years. Remember that recovery of that football field, the rehabilitation of the football field could have built kindergartens, schools, hospitals, etc. There is evidence just about the Environmental Protection Agency that shared money with shovels, there were suitcases of money carrying that Croatia has money, and how the money normally ends up in private pockets. So you wouldn't happen to have this debate, and it concerns those years that are very close to us, and imagine the DORH was one day late with a complaint application, one day. It's not too late. It's all connected. They're all connected, and a lot of people got money in their pocket because they were late.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104966	Time. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The truth for my colleague Vuksic is you were talking about the agency instead of the fund. The agency didn't have any problems with that. So you were thinking about the fund. I must commend the work of the agency that is here, and I have not been able to say it, so the Agency for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia, which has a database on the environment, has not been contacted at all in this process of exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons. Therefore, one of the strongest agencies, practically the only data available agency, was not involved in developing a strategic impact assessment on the environment and research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I said it's scandalous that a parliamentary representative is not familiar with all the knowledge that draws on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons mainly draws from the press because there is no other way. It is unacceptable for this huge, large project to pass past the Croatian Parliament, past parliamentary representatives. That's scandalous! The government, first of all, had implemented those documents imposed on it by the European directives on this should have met the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament should have been informed, we as advocates should have known and heard the arguments for and against, to have cost-benefit analysis, to study justification, to strategic environmental impact assessment and then to make a decision about it. And it's not strange, no, that 90% of Croats set themselves up by emotion, not reason, and that's why it happened to us that the government on 2 April will not make a commitment to itself, which is that April 2nd will sign a contract with the oil companies that it gave permission to investigate and exploit the hydrocarbon in the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104968	New replica, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have stated in your debate that just since 2012 since this government took responsibility, you have stated that the situation in the environment has been going down especially with regard to investments in environmental policies in the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, however, in the past 3 years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested nearly 2 billion kunas in energy efficiency projects, investing more than half a billion kuna in municipal equipment procurement projects, several times more than it has done in recent years. And my colleague Vuksic himself told you what was the situation in the fund before this government arrived. In addition, you stated that exactly the waste management centres that are our obligation to the EU that just as this government came, the process and dynamics of their construction stopped, on the contrary, just as this government was coming, the dynamics of the construction of the waste management centre and the intrusion of the regional authorities, or the county, to strengthen it, have just begun to arrive and the funds for the construction of these centres have been provided to this government. In fact, 425m euros were secured in the accepted operational programme of cohesion competitiveness precisely for the construction of waste management centres. And the fact that fellow Vuksic is not as informed as you are about the testing of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic can't be the fault of the government, Mr. Bacic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104970	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matteljan, it is not my impression or my information that three times less resources in environmental protection were invested in 2012 compared to 2011. This is written to you on page 319 of this report, which clearly states that compared to 2011, it is three times less invested in the overall protection of the environment compared to 2011 and twice less compared to 2010 and 2009. About that so much, so that's the agency's data it's not my arbitrary interpretation of any data from this report. As far as the Waste Management Centre is concerned, you can also see from the media or by questioning us who have the privilege of being members of the Assembly Committee, so we know some information better than others, but the fact is that 18 centres were originally planned which regionally speaking to the county, now according to information is being talked about 13. However, the waste management plan, which is like a basic document stemming from the Sustainable Waste Management Act, has not been adopted. I know that the public debate was concluded, that it was in December until January 15th, but it was also an obligation to adopt it by December 31st. Therefore, the delay in this strategic document entails a number of other penalties, we cannot expect the units of local self-government to do something to us when to do something is to assume that something is made by the state, the state has not done, how it will make the units of local self-government, how the counties will assess whether the waste management plan, for example, of the City of Dubrovnik, is in line with the waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia when the state... So, that's what I was talking about, we're late with it, we shouldn't run away from it, and let's not, I'm not talking about it, but because I'm worried about it because we'll be able to... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Croatia. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104972	It's a new replica of Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104973	Dear colleague Bačić, I must admit that I am quite surprised with your dissatisfaction with the implementation of the environmental policy of this government since they are in principle no different from the environmental protection policy implemented by your government. I can also list specific areas in which this government is a follower of the politics of your governments. You mentioned a lot of waste management, we have these waste management centres that have been completely pre-remended financially, where decisions on how technology will be defined and how financial construction will be created in any unusual negotiations between Croatian let me say the representative and the JASPERS representative. Was that for the benefit of Croatian citizens and Croatian states? No, because now it turns out that some waste management centres will pay far more of us as a state with our share than if we had entered some technology and modern technology alone, we would have realised them faster and better. You were also talking about the exploitation of hydrocarbons, and I didn't get the impression before you had something against the oil and gas business. And as for respecting procedures, just one little reminder regarding the adoption of the Water Act that you passed at the last cabinet session without having even had a discussion on the parent board, not to mention a public debate on the Water Act as one of the key laws in the field of environmental protection. So I think that you must be completely satisfied with the policy of protecting the environment of this government because it is the heir to the policy that you have been leading all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104974	Branko Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, I, in the work in which this government implements environmental policy, you know very well when it is on the trail of respect for the documents we adopted and signed in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia in full EU membership. And I said last night, we had a similar debate last night, and I also said today that when it comes to building a waste management centre that we took the obligation to establish a sustainable waste management that the government is not carrying the blame itself. I was talking about the fact that the government, in this process, is very important to cooperate with local self-government units, with units of regional self-government on finding a location, on meeting all those standards, on environmental protection, etc., etc. But I argue that the government did not continue to rhythm and dynamics that were expected, and I was talking about it when dealing with and managing waste. As for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, I think you know very well that I am already two years old talking about it both in the Parliament and on the board and that we held two thematic sessions that I am trying to sensitise the Croatian public and, on the other hand, to learn about the government that what it does is not in accordance with the law adopted by this Croatian Parliament. I don't know what you're seeing when it comes to the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation that this government is continuing projects of the previous government. In fact, it is that of those, you well know that in 2005, as a member of the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, I opposed the company of Adria. You know it no matter And at this point, the Government is entering a project which is kudikamo, which can cause more damage to the marine environment than the Adria project. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104976	New replica, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104977	A colleague of Bacic's. You said one good thing when you were talking about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic, you said it would be bad for us to make decisions with emotion and not reason. So I appeal to all of us, so both to you and to myself that first of all we use reason, emotionally you, emotionally bound surely to the Adriatic, live at sea, the sea almost flows through our veins from the first breath, we breathed that air along the sea full of iodine, etc.. But we really need to look at the Adriatic as a whole. So he is not only Croatian Adriatic and he is both Slovenian and Montenegrin and Italian etc.. So we really can't, there can't be a Robinzonia in Croatia. We're not excluded from what's around us. And it really is not negligible whether there are researches on the Adriatic right now, whether there are platforms, whether there are oil, gas, etc. It's not healthy to go sometimes, it's not healthy to irradiate, go to X-ray etc., but to save your life you'll go to it, do a search that isn't healthy even but ultimately saves your life. I'm appealing to it because this one, there's been an estheradisation of this important issue. It's going to the lowest emotion. Who is talking about Croatia may need to be dealt with in the way that all modern developed countries and countries that protect and are environmentally conscious are doing it. You've become enemies of your country in advance. There's so much emotion, it's used as an argument in this kind of politicization. I think it's bad and we just have to be smarter all together when we talk about this if it's in favor of Croatia and all of us and our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104978	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104979	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, at the end of the day you said best to your colleague Jurjevic, we must be smarter and calmer if it is in the interest of the country's development. So if it is, you don't know yourself as a parliamentary representative whether or not he is, but you say if he is. And in order to know you have to bring quality cost benefit analysis of what it brings to Croatia compared to other activities that relate to the Adriatic. That's one thing. Secondly, I am not speaking emotionally at all but speaking from what this House has brought and which prevents and does not allow what the Government is doing. And that's why I may be speaking more passionately, but I am fully available to all of those elements that I can express and claim that what the government is doing is illegal. That and that's it. And then when we get to the Parliament, we'll discuss everything that needs to be discussed, we'll bring in the documents that need to be brought in, we'll determine the cost of benefit analysis, then we'll be able to further argue whether or not we'll go into hydrocarbon research, if we're going to exploit just gas, not oil. So there are a lot of questions, a lot of questionnaires that should have been resolved before this process started. Therefore, in that sense, I think that you who come together with the sea should be in the interest of the government acting in the way it is foreseen under the law, and this procedure leads to it. I claim that what he's doing now will only lead to the government's abandonment of the project as is the case with the monetization. The government has set out to monetize without any debate in the Croatian Parliament. I hear from the media that there is a plan A, so there is plan B, so plan A has failed, now plan B will go into the privatisation of HAC-ONC etc., etc., it is unacceptable for such projects to happen beyond the Croatian Parliament. And what are we going to discuss in the House if we don't discuss it, that's what I'm interested in? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104980	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104981	Thank you. In a country where, systematically, there is no industrial policy in which the industry is on its knees, in a country where agriculture is systematically destroyed, a new bait has appeared, and that is oil, so we will solve our problems by now pulverizing oil, we will not develop agriculture, nor industrial policy, but we will already... of oil, it's such a bad, naive, so transparent fairy tale and bait sold to Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of clearing it up, revealing it, and not being at all, let's not let that story develop any further, you relativize it in some way and in your debate and in your replicas at all this situation and call for cost-censored analysis, cost-censorship analysis of hydrocarbon exploitation which, when research is not done, is how we're going to have cost-censorphite analysis. On the other hand, we have oil platforms, gas platforms in the northern Adriatic. About 70% of our needs are covered from domestic sources. Is that why the gas in the Republic of Croatia is less expensive, does Croatian citizens benefit from it? They have minimal benefits, as they will have the same benefits in the case of oil platforms on the Adriatic, except for part of the drawback fee. And to put ourselves in a position to take such a risk, I would never personally, regardless of party membership and party discipline, while I am a representative or while I am involved in politics, would never take over and would never support the plan, project or policy of oil exploitation in the Croatian Adriatic, precisely because of those children, because of those generations, because of the nature that should remain behind us and our mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104982	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104983	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I do not relativise the question of research and exploitation at all, but I ask that in this process and in every other procedure, so I also said in the process of monetization the Croatian Parliament respect the laws this Parliament has passed, respect the European directives that prescribe the actions in the sea and preserve the marine environment. I insist on that. The second is my personal approach, I was speaking for the club. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not against neither research nor gas exploitation in the Adriatic. We already have that in the northern part of the Adriatic and I'm not against it, but I'm against this kind of approach to gas exploration and exploitation, that's what this is about. And I am against oil platforms on the eastern coast of the Adriatic because since the Adriatic is a closed sea in which electricity is known, which would be one and a smaller acid as they call the possibility of spilling oil from the wells marked the Croatian coast. That's why I'm against oil exploitation, and I'm not against, personally, if you ask me, I'm not against gas exploration or exploitation. And I am also aware of the gas, especially oil in this House, that the Croatian public is aware of it, that it knows what it can bring, that we are all familiar with the possibilities and dangers that can happen in terms of oil exploration and exploitation. And that's why I talked about it today and I talk about it all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104984	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104985	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The space, or everything that makes this space a basic, means the environment, the basic and basic, the most valuable resource available to it. Therefore, the exceptional importance of the environment is for the economy, for society as a whole, and gives us exceptional concern for its preservation and protection, for its effective use, for continuous monitoring of the state of the environment. At the same time, the environment tells us the results of the permanent environmental monitoring to be included in the answers to how the environment, or individual environmental segments, can be included in the function of the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. The basic document on the state of the environment at national level is the Environment Report in the Republic of Croatia, so the document that honors MPs and MPs is today in front of us. The report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is based on the law by the Environmental Protection Agency every four years, and this report refers to the period from 2009 to 2012, but part of the data, part of the information, part of the trends also apply to longer periods of time because trends in measurement in the environment can only be observed after a small longer period of time. This report is extensive, it is professional, it is methodologically consistent with the prescribed European and national strategies or methodologies, it is comprehensive, cross-sectoralally processed. Data and information structured in the form of environmental indicators are the basis for carrying out an overall environmental assessment and an assessment of the achievement of the objectives of basic and strategic and planning documents in the field of environmental protection. Such documents, strategic documents in the area of environmental protection which necessarily need to use conclusions, data and all other information of this report are the Sustainable Development Strategy, i.e. national action plans on the environment. However, in addition to providing a basis for environmental policy strategies, this document provides, by its way and methodology, the basis for other sectors, therefore, for their strategic thinking, and not just for those environmental policies. The methodological approach to the production of this report has been taken over by the European Environment Agency and it implies a sectoral approach or classification of thematic areas to environmental components and sectoral burdens with a review of the environmental policy situation. The section of the sectoral burden report provides data on the impact of the sector on the environment and the following sectors are listed and processed: use of space with demographic data, energy, industry, transport, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, tourism, use of chemicals and waste management. It is very interesting to read the conclusions of some of these sectors. The use of space with demographic data, one of the conclusions of the report on the state of the environment is the conclusion that the objectives of political development of Croatia are not met, visible in the uneven development of our regions and increasing pressure on larger cities. The conclusion is that demographic trends are negative and the trend of the depopulation is very pronounced, especially the depopulation of our rural area, and the fact is that over the past 10 years, population decline has been reported by 10.7%. These facts, therefore, may not be the basis for environmental strategies, but they are certainly the basis for those institutions dealing with regional development, or those institutions dealing with rural development. Energy, industry or transport. It should be noted here that the report shows that the share of renewable energy sources in production electricity is extremely low. It is 28.7%, but when we exclude from that share that share of electricity produced in large power plants, we are actually left with only 2.8% of electricity produced from the sun, wind, biomass or small hydropower plants. Therefore, all those who will form their strategies in the future must take into account this fact in order for Croatia to reach at least the level defined in the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which is 5.8% of the share in energy from renewable energy sources. Croatia's energy depends heavily on electricity imports as it depends on oil imports. The construction sector has been recognised as the largest individual energy consumer, however, it is also such and represents the greatest potential for energy savings. Therefore, the government through the Environmental Protection Fund over the past period has allocated 2 billion euros, an apology of 2 billion kuna for energy efficiency projects. And these days, competitions concerning energy efficiency are under way right in the construction of both the residential and the inhabitable ones, and the competition concerning the energy efficiency of the family houses is about 600 million kuna. As far as waste management is concerned, we can generally look at the content of this report and say that progress has been made. Compared to 2008, the volume of waste produced decreased by 7% in 2012. During the same period, the share of municipal waste that is delayed from 97% to 83% was reduced. At the same time, from 45% to 85%, the share of citizens who have access to a certain type of waste classification has been increased, and it is not important to say that over the past three years, a whole series of municipal equipment procurement projects has been launched. It was about eco-islets, it was about cans to collect, to select waste, trucks to transport and collect waste. So, communal tools. The total value, i.e. total co-financing by the Environment Fund against these projects, amounted to over half a billion kuna. However, in order to establish an integrated waste management system, it is necessary to fulfil our obligation to the EU, which is to build a waste management centre. Currently, the process of changing the existing waste management plan is in the final phase, which will define that 13 waste management centres, county or regional centres are needed in Croatia. In addition, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in its paper in a way that finances the facility for the mechanical and biological waste treatment and thus in a way that the fund co-finances that part of the costs that has not been the case so far. Then the percentage of compulsory local co-financing of waste management centres projects is reduced in a way that provides 90% of the funds needed through EU funds and funds. And therefore, the units of the district self-government, i.e. in the counties, remain to cover the other 10% of the funds. So far, this has been the case of 20% and more of the participation of local self-government, i.e. the county in the construction, or all of those activities related to the construction of waste management centres. It is also necessary to say that through the accepted operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion of... By 2020, 425m euros have been provided for the construction of waste management centres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report also includes the whole of the environmental component containing the data showing the state of each individual environmental component, so air, water, soil, sea, biodiversity, and containing information and data related to climate change and those parameters affecting human health. In addition to the totals relating to the sectoral burden of the whole relating to the environmental component, this report also contains a whole called the general environmental protection and sustainable development issues under consideration of the institutional and legislative framework with data on the effectiveness of the instruments and measures implemented in the field of environmental protection. By using the European methodology for drawing up this report, i.e. by taking over the basic structure of the European Environment Agency for the first time, this Environment Report also contains the whole of an integrated environmental protection theme containing information and information on activities, dynamics and the achievement of the objectives set out in the field of integrated environmental protection topics such as sustainable production and consumption, resource efficiency and eco-system and green economy services. Finally, it is necessary to say that the purpose of this Report is, above all, to report to environmental decision makers in the country, and the effectiveness of the implementation of the environmental protection policy. This report gives a very transparent, understandable, systematic and multidisciplinary way to the general public, the civil sector, the public sector, the economic sector, the scientific and professional public and all, so it gives an insight into a whole range of information, data, trends, and an assessment of the state of the environment and the effectiveness of environmental protection policies. This report is the basis for all their planning, strategic and other documents, which, unlike many reports that have come to debate before this House of Commons, is very useful. And for all these reasons, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104986	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104987	Thank you very much. Comrade Mateo, I would not discuss and replicate to you what you will accept the report. Well, that's the 2009-2012 report. It's been three years. Therefore, we have nothing, we accepted him for staying alive and we can discuss it. But what I wanted to replicate to you are trends, trends in protection, so the environment by taking care of waste etc. And here I see today in the debates no one mentions the trends of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, which I would assume from the ruling party and coalition that given the efforts made by the minister himself and former Minister Holly in connection with this problem and the problems of the international with BiH in connection with the refinery in the Bosnian Ship and the pollution resulting from the work of the Russian-owned refinery, therefore again we have no conclusion, we have no solution. We also spoke to the European Parliament, which I think you know. Our representatives, some in the European Parliament, have spoken a few sentences about it, and there is no solution. Furthermore, here in this report you do not mention that there are other elements of environmental pollution but also climate change, starting with so-called. hypothetical but somewhat proven consequences... in Kosovo and in Barajev, which exists with us, HAARP, I will then explain to you what it is, which can change the climate, can allow floods, it can be possible for 15 days to rain through low-frequency waves in the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we keep quiet about, we don't say anything. I guess we can't be from someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104988	Thank you very much. Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104989	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, of course, I must agree with you on this area of Slavonski Brod, but you yourself know that this Parliament through the Environmental Protection Committee also had a thematic session on pollution related to Slavonski Brod, that we have reached conclusions that we have passed on to responsible ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that we have received some answers that tell us about the dynamics that the Government is trying to solve this problem for us. I hope, I am convinced that the government will, of course, try to solve this problem as soon as possible within the frameworks in which it can. Of course, in this regard, we are a member of the EU, which is our current status. As far as this second part of your replica is concerned, the Croatian environment is part of the European environment, and the European environment is part of the world environment and the whole eco system on our entire globe is so sensitive that, of course, these trends you've been talking about should be looked after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104990	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104991	I agree with your assessment of this report, which is actually a good study. You talked about how you should regain consciousness and this study will make all those who decide on the environment but should also raise awareness of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this area is too little in Croatia except when it comes to, as was the case with the City of Zagreb, about personal promotion of one or more people for taxpayers' money to advertise, to advertise the classification of waste that is not available in Zagreb. I live in the center of town and we're still throwing everything in one bucket, which is actually a sin, the mortal sin is that. So, to raise awareness of everything. And in order to raise awareness of all Croatian citizens, we need another strategy, we need to act as we say, and we do not act. And I'd still just take advantage of what you were saying at the beginning about renewable energy sources. It's too small, it's almost negligible, we need to work harder on it, no matter how much we warn those who think about profit that it's the most expensive energy. And compared to the context, I made a rough lapus instead of a trust, and I told the agency, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104992	Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104993	Yeah, you're right. The sensitisation of citizens for the separate collection of waste, for the classification of waste, is generally the ecological sensitisation of citizens, in fact, the most important, fundamental thing. And the fact is, we did the least in it. But there is also a great obligation of the local self-government unit, above all, to make its segment, so that it makes its small unit of local self-government more ecologically clean, to make it more environmentally acceptable. It is therefore also on local self-government units, above all, to use EU funds that have just been opened to us to sensitise the population to effectively manage waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104994	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104995	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, you spoke of statistics on the reduction of the number of inhabitants in rural areas. What do you think that's gonna look like when this period is going to count from 2012 to here? But what I have reported to you for the replica is your enthusiasm and showing the activities of the Environmental Protection Fund for the restoration of family homes. Do you think now that according to this new model that Minister Zmajlovic invented where he totally kicked out local self-government from the programme, it would go much better? That it's going to develop in a better direction? One big mistake has been made in this part and practically local self-government has been thrown aside again, and we often mention local self-government, it is not allowed to participate actively, although a number of local self-government units have spent a considerable amount of this good programme over the past two years. And I would be very pleased if you, too, spoke on behalf of the SDP club, tried to influence the minister to amend his decision and to leave that possibility for units of local self-government to work together with the Environmental Protection Fund to work on the project, while still establishing an additional fund so that citizens whose units of local self-government will not participate in the project... could also report from these units of local self-government to the competition and use these funds of the Environmental Protection Fund. As for solars, electricity purchases, etc., you've been talking about these renewable energy sources, my God, I'm really interested in who got into the program and made a deal with HEP that he could sell solar power for the last two, three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104996	Thank you. Damir Mateljan, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104997	Thank you. First, as far as the competition for the energy efficiency of family homes is concerned, this local self-government in the new model is not excluded, it can still be included in the county and cities and municipalities and the municipalities, I think it will, but let's, let's check it out, check it out after the competition and see if the project was willing after a year. Looking at the arguments, i.e. by looking at the settings of this programme and the 600 million kuna shared on households, I am convinced that it will be much more quality than it was before. I am not a euphoric colleague, nor am I too satisfied with the work of the fund, but I have long been involved in local politics and I know how to compare the work of the former fund and the current environmental fund, not that there are huge differences against the relationship with local self-government but also the work it deals with, but it is simply not comparable. As for solarians, how to make an agreement with HEP to sell electricity, very difficult but possible. Here's my community did it for a small solar system, though two kilowatts, but there's a possibility, so based on the new rule that you don't have to look for a network sale but that you can look for that dial that's actually turning back to you, and that's how you save your electricity and you're not selling it into a network. So there's that possibility in the rule book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104998	Mirela Holly replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u104999	Dear fellow Mateljan, in your discussion you mentioned a plan for waste management and in a very commendable context, in this style here he is happening. So I would just like to mention that while I was still the Minister of Environmental Protection, which was far away in 2012 were the amendments and additions to the Waste Management Plan that were just about to allow for the very rapid implementation of the Waste Management Centre in order to meet our obligations under the European directives. Among other waste disposals Directives which came on the charge in 2013 and which we failed to respect and which is passed on to the share of BIO waste treatment and its participation in waste dumps that we should have reduced by 25% compared to the 1997 reference year. Also, you are very enthusiastic about financing documentation for waste management projects from the Environment Fund and in a positive context you are talking about, and I would like to ask you whether you are familiar with the content of the Fund Act and do you know what the Fund Act says about spending money from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. In fact, what is now being done is in complete contrast to the provisions of the Fund Act because it clearly states that the funds that enter the fund must be spent on improving those parts by which they are actually entered into the fund. So there's no spending on how anyone likes it, and in this sense, the current management of money from the fund is no different than the management of the previous government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105000	Damir Matteljan's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105001	Thank you. The Environmental Protection Fund's work regulation therefore states that the Environmental Protection Fund can finance those projects relating to European funds, in particular that it is up to 100% documentation and that the Fund is practicing. Practically, I know, for example, that in Sisak-Moslavina County there is a large sector of construction, and I believe in another county. Practically, I know specifically in Sisak-Moslavina County refers to a large sector of construction, and I believe in the other counties of the Republic of Croatia. This is extremely important because this is precisely how local self-government units and other stakeholders who report on European funds projects actually help the fund in the area where they need the most help, because it is in the financial sub-capacitation of those funds that must be invested as their own resources. So I think this is one of the best programmes of the Environment Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105002	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105003	I welcome the Deputy Minister, I welcome the Director of the Agency I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, briefly say our position on the report itself, in fact my debate is going in the direction, will go in the direction of supporting this report because we believe that the report is good, that on almost four hundred pages is abundant and thoroughly addressed the issue of environmental protection and environmental protection today in the Republic of Croatia. The report, we believe, is one of the fundamental documents of environmental protection and is an important tool in planning environmental protection policy but also an indicator of the need to integrate environmental protection into development and strategic documents of other sectors such as agriculture, tourism and energy, which should not be forgotten. But there's a noticeable difference between what's being declared and what's happening in reality, and I'm going to list a few cases here that we think are well depicting that kind of difference between what's publicly declared as environmental policy and what's done. Namely, there are contradictions between the constant emphasis of the preserved and attractive environment as the main resource of planned development, especially in tourism in healthy food, water supplies, etc. and too little attention and time to be devoted to informing and sensitising the public about existing environmental problems. So not only are the information not actively distributed to the public through us, but the process that can be achieved is very slow. We here point out how important it is, through one fact, that we point out how important it is that the European Union's focus on environmental protection is in the way that, the fact is, the European Commission is looking for, so it prescribed a 56m-euro sentence for Italy because it failed to take care of those hundreds of places where waste was illegally deposited. Thus, the facts suggest that some 16 of these dumps were also very dangerous waste. Therefore, the European Union is extremely concerned about the introduction of a common culture of environmental protection. They, also in a positive sense, will give an example of opportunities between regional co-operation, especially in our eastern country between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, where the creation of a waste-free society has made a very good cooperation of cross-border waste management cooperation where some 600m euros have been withdrawn. I think that Croatia has received about 352m euros based on such successful pre-ranean co-operation. As far as our most important wealth is concerned, which we think is one of the most important, which is water, I note that this year's World Nature Protection Organisation VVF dedicated this year's World Environment Day to preserving rivers in Croatia as well as to the entire Dinar Space region. Thus, Mrs Irma Dujmovic of the VVF said that 82 rivers were analysed in Croatia and more than 70% of them were found to be of great value and great preservation. That's one of our own, so that's what it says about how much potential we have, or the natural wealth we have right now, and the question is, are we even aware of how much wealth we have? I'm also going to state here the possibility of a cross-border cooperation of that project called "Live Danube". So this cross-border partnership in the European Union called "Live Danube" is an emphasis placed on the preservation of the value of the Middle Danube which is also very important project that is not spoken of, the central Danube in the Republic of Croatia includes the area of Nature Park Kopački rit, the regional park Mura-Drava, the Biosphere of Mura-Drava-Dunav in Croatia and the special reserves of Gornja Podunavlje. So these are spaces that are of great importance as a national wealth, and we need to create a certain awareness of how to manage these national treasures. Our minister said Croatia is among the top three countries in Europe by sea quality. He says we are third in Europe by the wealth of water and we can also be satisfied with the quality of air. He says we have 19 national parks and nature parks and almost 30% of Croatia is under the Natura 2000 ecological network. And it's probably pretty much like that, but I'm going through a few facts to point out that there's still enough space here to make things right. The Ministry of Environmental Protection says that in the Republic of Croatia we have 299 official dumps to which waste is being transported and from which only 102 has been recovered so far and out of a thousand seven registered wild dumps, only 750 have been rehabilitated, so this is our situation, quite diametrically contrary to what the ministry leader said. As part of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, a plan has been drawn up for the implementation of the Disposal Directive, which provides for the rehabilitation and closure of all landfills by the end of 2018. By the end of 2020, we should be recycling 50% of municipal and 70% of construction waste, and that would cost us about 4 billion euros somewhere. Today in Zagreb, we have received an example in the city of Zagreb. 2.5 thousand tasks of the municipal directorship of the city of Zagreb for the removal of wild dumps. So we see how social one is, how much social commitment it takes to solve these problems. Here I will take advantage of the opportunity so I will point to one situation that is happening in the Zadar hinterland, where the County Center for Waste Management should be built and it should be done in the almost most attractive location, or in the heart of the Straight Wheels. Of course, the people rebelled against it because of the so-called removal. The black hill, or 138 thousand tonnes of waste material that was brought during the Rehabilitation of the Sibenik TEF, in Biljana near Benkovec caused a real revolution, a disturbance in people. Why? Because that black dump was set up about 40 meters from the houses where people live. And we're talking about organic production then, we're talking about the perspectives of agriculture in the Ravna kotars. We forget the fact that before the war, the flat wheels were the space where the entire Central Dalmatia was supplied with vegetables. And now, in the heart of such a space, we're going to deposit a 138,000-ton black hill of waste material that the experts in Strasbourg have said is very problematic, despite the fact that our domestic experts said there is no danger, that the hill is not carcinogenic, no matter what, of course, the county assembly has made such a locational decision on the location of this waste. Of course, everyone is guided by their own interests and I ask the question of how we calm down these people who need to live every day by such a dump and whose wind brings that dust and that dust falls on their crops and falls on them because it is 40 meters, 50 meters from their village, or from more villages in the area. We have a situation in the city of Osijek where we have a large dump in Loncarica that should be discussed in a better way. The fact is that this dump should be at least 500 metres from the space in which people live, but it has already drawn close to its gauges, settlements around the dump. I'm not going to talk here about a water analysis that is very questionable, or negative for a healthy life and the use of people in the city of Osijek. So that's the question that we're imposing in how we approach a very serious problem like this and whether we're going to be aware of the commercial category or whether we're going to start using some long-term logic of a healthy environmental mind here. Here I will also say something about the experiences relating to green islands and street containers that we considered to be one of the very large achievements of the European Union for waste management, but lately some data deny it, say such street containers and so on. The green islands begin to present a problem because they are not used in the best way. In an irregular way, citizens tend to take care of the excess volume of their waste by these green islands, of course, except for hygienic and aesthetic, negative connotations here we have the problem of additional financing how to further tackle it and that creates a problem for local self-government. Therefore, the installation of preventive cameras did not prove to be quite effective either. The conclusion is that such green islands in the European Union received 50% of the expected results. So we need to start thinking about how to create in public space, in media space a special culture, special education when it comes to environmental protection. And finally I, of course, said that this report will confirm that we will accept this report, but I will end up as a message if it is understood, that a healthy environment is public good and one of the basic human rights is, that is, the right of every individual to live in a healthy environment. Once 200 years ago, a great Indian chief said this very well, shining in his letter to Franklin Pierce, the American President, where he ended up in a few points and said: "The country doesn't belong to man, the man belongs to the country." It's all about relationships like family united with blood, everything is connected. It's not a man who makes fabric of life. It's just a fiber in it. What he does with the fabric, he does with himself. And let that sort of be a message that this topic is not just a topic of formal speaking but it has its own deep social and social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105004	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105005	Dear colleague, you are absolutely right about the problem of Straight Wheels, and I have already put a good two months ago written parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which the Government has not yet accepted the answer but why should we respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in general. Unfortunately, the problem of the residents of Ravni kotars is similar to the problems faced by many citizens in the Republic of Croatia who live in close proximity to very dangerous dumps, so I would also mention the phospho gypsies at Kutina which have also not been solved for decades, and unfortunately, in the very center of Zagreb, we have a very big problem that is hardly spoken of at all, and this is the problem of the Gudron caves on Savica where an extremely large amount of toxic chemicals from various chemical industries has been delayed, literally during the summer months of the key. I was this summer, I went around the area. I couldn't believe it, that's what these toxic materials get through the gravel roads. Just a lake, because that material was dumped in the lake on Savica, literally the key. This looks like some kind of soup premordial and answer to the parliamentary question I asked the government on that subject is what it is, so it doesn't matter. It is a 500 meters away from the main waterhole for the City of Zagreb, Petruševec. If any earthquake occurred in Zagreb, we would have permanently polluted water sources, drinking water in Zagreb, but nobody cares about it at all. So we have a very large number of problems in local environments that haven't been solved in years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105006	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105007	I'd like to thank my colleague Holly. I can't talk about this last situation on Jakushevec, but this problem about Straight Wheels, around the village of Biljana and other surrounding villages is not a fresh problem. It has been active for several years, and what is interesting, public debates and choirs of citizens have also been conducted, or people have written petitions saying they do not want to live with such a problem as the landfill. When a strong wind blows, a storm, then all the dust goes to their homes. Those gardens of theirs are covered in dust. Of course, what concerns us is how there can be a difference in the assessment, an expert analysis if domestic institutions say it is not dangerous on the other hand, an analysis was carried out on its own initiative, a group of citizens did so in Germany, in one expert laboratory and a carcinogenic hazard was established. So, from so much difference in that professional approach to such a serious problem. That's the thing that worries us. Of course, the County Assembly has its own economic interest, it will likely profit with a certain rent. But it can't be the primary thing, if, above all, the lives of people in that flat-wheel area are at stake. And the basic thing is if people aren't satisfied with it, if they don't agree. So there's got to be a concept of one general opinion and general interest, and then that waste management center over there has its logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105008	Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105009	I thank the president. Dear fellow Horvat, I also sympathise with the people of Straight Wheels who have a problem with... in the Millenniums. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, for the sake of the entire Croatian public and for the sake of facts, I have a few things to say. So, it's a material that I emphasized by a private company, with which the city of Šibenik in 2007 under the direction of Mayor Nede Klaric concluded a contract, so HDZ Mayor's office and which excluded its material from the area... That contract and it was about the ride... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and transferred him to some kind of location. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the city of Sibenik does not feel the least responsible for this, and I know that there has been a stretching around the city of Sibenik in the media. Next, it's clear that this hill of black... It is not a product of the city administration of Sibenik, it is not a product of the work of the director of the TEF but rather a product of the work of a previous city authority that concluded the contract and that private company respected the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who gave the location permit for something like that? Who rented a field for something like that? That might be a question to ask. In doing so, all the findings claim that this... It's not carcinogenic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what they got in Germany, but I'm at the expense of that grown-up, as a kid I played on it and I don't have any diseases at least as much as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105010	On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club Yeah, the answer to the line of Mile Horvat. [[/Intruder: And the response to the replica?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105011	I'm sorry. Dear colleague Franco, I'm glad you don't have one. God forbid it shows you have one. That would be very bad. But you know that side, you're talking about that aspect of the problem that institutions should solve. The question is, where are the mining inspections, where are the other inspections, and there it is, obviously, that the system here is not dealing with this thing properly. And then, on the other hand, we have an initiative of concerned citizens who get together, who want to sensitize the public and draw attention to the fact that there's something out there that they're not sure about. It's possible that it's not even... I wish they were wrong, but that's what one of the authorities has to tell them and convince them that they can live peacefully with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that would be good. So, if we've managed to get the competent institutions to do what they were supposed to do now, then I'm satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105012	And now on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Dragutin Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105013	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Director, colleagues and colleagues. One of the main environmental protection documents in the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of which an assessment of the overall state of the state of the country's environment is given and an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures applied for the observed period is the Environment Report. The holder of this Report 2009-2012 is the Environment Protection Agency, which is defined by law as the preparation of the report. The report alone monitors the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and protection documents as well as strategic and planning documents related to individual environmental components. In view of the overall insight into the state of the environment, it is produced at national level. The report is extensive material, the book is almost 400 pages, contains 5 units and 17 thematic chapters, 10 for sectoral burdens and 7 for environmental components. One of the most important purposes of this report is to report first and foremost to environmental decision makers in the country and the effectiveness of the implementation of its protection policy. It is carried out by competent authorities in the Environment, Ministry, Agency, Fund, State Nature Protection Institute, as well as the competent authorities of other sectors using natural resources of the environment. In the introduction of the report itself, it is very important to point out that this Report gives all stakeholders insight into a range of data, information, environmental and environmental policy assessments. Only the report contains many valuable data. Of course, these are primarily data on the impact of individual procedures on the environment, data on the monitoring of its situation and the use of means of protection, the assessment of the need to make new or amend existing documents. The assessment of the situation as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of the measures implemented as well as of possible other data of relevance to the protection of the environment shall be given. This results from the report on the state of the environment of the Republic of Croatia being one of the most important tools for monitoring and long-term environmental policy planning. Its main purpose, in fact, is its real evaluation of the state and preservation of our environment not only at national but also at European level. In particular, parts of this report are part of the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the European Environment Report. What is most important is that sectoral burdens bring data on the impact of a particular sector on the environment from using a space with demographic data to a waste management area. It also shows the state of each individual environmental component, from air and water to those environmental parameters that have an impact on human health. Areas and environments with permanent or occasional negative impacts are also listed. I'll just mention some of the findings in the report that are causing attention, not to mention them in importance, but maybe I'll mention them like this, so some of them are not more important than the ones that are listed here. Demographic trends continue to be negative, population declines and the population is getting older. As far as energy is concerned, the biggest challenges are the dependence on oil imports, insufficient security of natural gas supply, high share of electricity imports in the energy balance, the inclusion of renewable energy sources is carried out but dynamics are questionable. Furthermore, despite the progress attributed to a stricter regulation in the field of environmental protection and energy efficiency of industry, it is still a burden given that it generates certain amounts of pollution and waste. Waste management is a key priority of environmental protection that seeks to achieve by directing economic and social activities towards a recycling society, and the order of the championship to be the first priority to prevent waste, preferably reusing it, and then recycling, energy use, and as a final solution to incineration without energy use or its final disposal. In the area of waste management, new signatures have been adopted fully in line with European rules but the strategic objectives set are not yet achieved at the intended pace. Air quality in Croatia is monitored on the basis of data measured by the measurement stations of state and local networks for continuous monitoring of air quality. The most widespread problem of air pollution in populated areas was reported in Zagreb, Osijek, Kutina, Sisak and Slavonski Brod and near roads near Zagreb, Split, Sibenik and Rijeka. On the subject of air pollution in Sisak and Slavonski Brod, the Parliamentary Committee for Environmental Protection held thematic sessions and made certain conclusions and recommendations. Water exploitation in Croatia is significantly below the level that would generally compromise water availability. The only question is whether Croatia's water resources are used effectively? Some 45% of the population of the Republic is covered in municipal wastewater treatment systems, and about 65% of the waste water treatment systems are being used. The increased involvement of the population in public sewage systems related to municipal wastewater treatment devices is not realised by the planned dynamics due to adverse economic conditions, high costs of building a secondary network and the level of collection of connections. Unfortunately, all payments in the environmental protection system are trying to be treated as a social category and, of course, it is all too expensive, from investments to end-users who are always easier to pay, for example, mobile telephony bills than to join the disposal system, the collection of waste or the like, and to pay fees for the use of these services. And let me also mention that according to this report, the health status of our citizens of all age groups in the context of the quality of environmental components in Croatia is stable and meets the standards. However, since the environment does not know the limits of existing cross-border air and water pollution, global trends in possible changes and pollution should not be ignored. Any discussion, report, draft laws, round tables or other activities that regulate environmental matter also raise particular attention among those who are officially and professionally engaged in the law, as well as citizens of interested associations, to the general public could be said. Why? Because the environment and everything related to it directly affects the quality of our lives, especially health. It depends on the preservation and protection of natural resources, i.e. the protection of all life on earth. But environmental protection also draws attention to this because it is linked to large economic activity, as well as the impact of environmental protection on the majority of business activities. And it is up to them to our economic development, living conditions, that is, the overall standard of citizens. In this regard, this report can serve as a help in making important decisions. The HNS Club will support the 2009-2012 report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105014	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105015	Thank you very much. You were talking about a pace late in waste management and the establishment of a waste disposal center. In fact, yesterday we watched not know on which television that 4.5 thousand workers could be employed if we set up a waste management centre that would then make their pay, and that would actually make them comfortable with the useful. Which is why, for 3.5 years, this government has actually been late in time with what's defined guidelines, strategy and everything else, I don't know, maybe you're from the ruling coalition, so you know. Furthermore, when you were talking about the exploitation of water but in doing so we must take into account our rivers, so the inner so-called waters, exploitation and minerals, gravel, sand and the rest of the riverbeds, and then a gentleman who deals with it long before he retired and said this way, "As long as there is water there will be gentlemen." And then there goes your water connection price, which is determined and determined by some water nets that are really expensive. Cell phone prices not to talk, but it's a month's worth of payments, this is all of a sudden. And one more thing, the Institute of the Grounds of the Republic of Croatia is connected or even nearly abolished, and we would like to ask for it in writing, that the Agency should declare as much as the changes in soil, on the ground of the Republic of Croatia in connection with metals, aluminium, barium, strontium, in view of the... discussed by the United Nations. Let's see the data from 2009 and 2015, or 2000 and 2015. Let's see if there's an increase in these elements in our soil, aluminium, barium, strontium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105016	Dragutin's Head reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105017	You're right, water must be the greatest treasure there is right now and water protection should be a priority. I will talk about this example from Međimurje, Međimurje is rich in water, rich in springs of drinking water and one of the main tasks is to preserve the quality of that water. Surely, the purification system has not yet been revived and you said well expensive, but when we bring those prices into line with the prices of some other services, then we still come to the conclusion that it should not be too expensive, because if we say that this is a treasure then that wealth should be paid in some way. As for waste disposal, I will again use the Međimurje example that has been serving as an example of waste disposal in our country for years now. For many years, we have been sorting and delaying specific waste, and in this way we are helping to raise waste to one higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105018	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105019	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of the debate, I would like to commend this report, I think it is an extremely high-quality document that warns about the very large holes that exist in the environmental protection system, and I would refer to what is really the very topic which deals with the environmental status report and is at the end and in the very competence of the Environment Protection Agency as the main database of all the meanings of the environmental component in the Republic of Croatia. And the fact is that even today, in 2015, when we are discussing this report that was submitted in time, and I would like to express our appreciation because we had not had it before, it means it was submitted within two years of the meaning of 2012, I am sorry that we didn't discuss it already last year, but here I am saying that we can actually see that, regardless of all the data we receive from different institutions, we cannot safely claim the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. We did not go far either into the inventory of plant and animal species, which was our obligation to the European Directive on NATURA 2000, we do not have a related database of different environmental factors or what I advocated as a minister at the end of the day, and the director has worked very hard to raise on this and to click on any place in Croatia through one platform and get all the key data, environmental data from that area, such as air, water, soil, plant and animal species. What does it matter? This is what I would say is one of the most important key instruments for the quality of environmental protection policy of any country because, for all projects for which it is necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment process is extremely important that you have fully accurate and objective data that are actually being considered so that you can make a reasoned decision on whether an operation is acceptable to the environment or not. Unfortunately, at the present time, environmental impact study makers are using different data for which it is very difficult to determine objectivity and relevance, which leads to, of course, the very quality of the environmental impact assessment process. The idea is that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia can actually see in one place what data is related to certain environmental factors and thus raise the overall quality of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this government too, just as in previous HDZ's environmental governments, is to say it a little bit as illustrating the 13th pig or the last hole in the play and there is a reasonable doubt and that it is still a piece of pig to please the friends of the current set. I'd like to beg you. Yeah. [[You're closer to calming them than I am.]] We used to have projects like the Ovrovec, the Salonite. Unfortunately, this government has Eurotower, it has waste lords. It has the same illegal and non-transparent spending of money from the Environmental Protection Fund. And here I would like to say one very important thing, except the commendation that deserves this report deserves a special commendation from the Director of the Environmental Protection Agency, Prof. Dr. The Uneven Fruit and that is because the man who really works in the public interest, who works to protect the environment and works in a desire to spend money transparently and objectively. Perhaps some of you, if there are at all interested in the debate, are not aware that Neven Fruit is the only official who has refused to move to Eurotower and I think you have read about how much that move was actually needed and how much financial savings for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, great praise for the honesty and transparency of Director Neven Voqa. And what is the state of the Croatian environment? When we talk about waste management, we have a law that was passed after the deadline that deals with this report in mid-2013, and that is now over a year and more than half, and we still have not passed very important regulations that would allow that regulation to be implemented at all. We don't have a recovery organization, we don't have waste tycoons, we don't have a stock market, we don't have the will to introduce a market model for waste management. And now we're listening recently, the environment minister is very positive about how he's moving towards a transition to a circular economy. And I'm asking the question of how we're going to achieve a transition to a circular economy if we haven't met the basic preconditions in terms of regulations, legal preconditions, neither market, nor infrastructure, so we can even talk about having a waste management system. And the waste management system isn't in itself the transition to a circulatory economy. The circular economy is a very complex process that requires, of course, that we first have primary waste selection, but we don't even have that. I'm listening today during this discussion of different unusual, so I'd say bizarre things. So it turns out that in Croatia rules are above the law and that it is perfectly normal for taxpayers and parafiscal taxpayers to spend their money on purpose and that the fund serves as a bank of pigs for different projects of ruling elites. Unfortunately, this government has run over almost all promises from its election programme in the area of environmental protection. When we talk about nature protection, there is no fundamental reform that should have been implemented, no national park agency has been formed, now some variations are being made regarding the relationship, so money from the national parks system continues to be spent very intransparently. We still do not implement the National Strategy and Action Plan of landscape and biodiversity but we are all happy and satisfied. When we talk about waste management, we have a complete debacle, a good guess for waste tycoons, a law that was cooked by mid-2013 we see that it is not actually implemented because many sublaws have not yet been passed. And from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, funds could be spent from other purposes, which could be provided for the introduction of a waste disposal fee at the dumps. I'm asking the question why didn't that instrument be introduced? We don't have a market, we don't have a stock market. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellows and colleagues, please refrain from speaking out loud that a colleague can end the debate in peace.]] Another phenomenal project that we were talking about here today, we have oil in the Adriatic. At least that's what Minister Vrdoljak says. Today I had the opportunity to talk to a man who works on oil platforms and who is terrified to even think about the project being implemented in Croatia. An interesting piece of information that I believe is unknown to you when workers are transferred to the platform and transferred by helicopters is strictly prohibited from being photographed by helicopters. You know why? Because there are always very visible oil stains around the platform. Check that data a little bit. Then we find out recently that Međimurje is already conducting the first experimental hydraulic fracture or more famously fracking. I guess none of you actually know much about what technology it's about. It's very invasive technology to print carcinogenic fluids that actually break rocks and produce gas. The U.S. estimates that most intensely conduct hydraulic fractures speak of 600,000 sick people as a result of fractures. And finally, to finish my debate with Albert Einstein's quote: "Two things are boundless, space and human nonsense.". I'm not sure about the universe. Unfortunately, we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105020	Davor Bernardic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105021	Dear colleague Holly, here's what I have to say is that this waste management system in Croatia was one of the burning problems that unfortunately has been systematically ignored until you head the ministry, and now your successor, Michael Zmajlović. What was a big problem was the transfer of responsibility between local self-government and state units. When everyone's responsible, no one's responsible at the end of the day. This was so in the waste management system and is why today the results of the primary selection of waste, recovery, recycling are devastating. I point out this specifically to the example of the City of Zagreb where waste is almost not recycled, but this is unfortunately also the situation in most towns and municipalities in Croatia. It is only in the last three years that there has been systematic pressure precisely because of the directives or regulation we have taken over as well as negotiating chapters with the European Union to introduce order into waste. The state through the ministry is making certain pressure on local self-government units to improve governance. waste management, but unfortunately it's not enough now. That pressure is good, it's never been before, so it's something to praise, but the fact is that in this part it's not enough. I'm going to give an example, and it's not about the waste, it's about the fund. I would like the City of Zagreb, together with the Energy Efficiency Fund, to find a way for people in Zagreb living in houses and in buildings by system as it is done elsewhere in Croatia to co-finance facilities. It is for the citizens of the City of Zagreb the most important thing. That's what's going on right now because that deal doesn't exist. So I ask you, I appeal to you, Mr. Deputy Minister, since there is no Minister here, to find a common language to help all people in the City of Zagreb to rebuild their buildings and their houses with co-financing from the fund. That's what's missing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105022	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105023	My dear colleague, despite the fact that you spoke positively of me, I cannot agree with you. In fact, the situation with regard to waste management in Croatia is not good at all, we did not respect the obligations of the Land field directive, i.e. the disposal directive by which we had to reduce by the end of 2013 the amount of biowaste that was delayed at landfills by 25% compared to the reference year 1997. The next step we should take is in 2015, so this year when we need to introduce primary selection for a whole series of useful types of waste. And when we talk about the City of Zagreb, one bizarre piece of information. Mayor Milan Bandic boasts that Zagreb has a 40 per cent recycling of waste. I don't just know where it comes from, but I'm absolutely sure they're not true because Zagreb, as you've determined exactly, has no infrastructure for primary waste selection and there is not another additional instrument, which is that the collection of waste is calculated according to volume or volume, which is one of the basic preconditions for citizens to be motivated at all by the primary selection of waste. It's a system of connected vessels. When we talk about recycling courtyards, it's also a rather tragic situation. So I don't think we can be satisfied at all, we don't respect the European Union's directives, in this part we don't recognise the great potential for employment and green growth, and we are declaring ourselves to be a circular economy for which there are no basic preconditions in our legislation or political will or in the implementation of certain infrastructures.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105024	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105025	Thank you. Dear colleague, in your debate, you mentioned, you referred to the accidental spending of citizens' funds in this area. I immediately remembered the problem of purifiers in the City of Zagreb and the non-resolvement of wastewater in the area where I come from, the area of Zagreb's Sesveda. That's the second biggest problem there when we talk about environmental pollution after waste disposal. Only a small part of the area of Zagreb's Sesveda, which according to the last list of 70 000 inhabitants, is covered by a sewerage network, and for that part, which is covered by waste water, are not being taken into that wastewater purifier, which both the citizens of Sesveta and the citizens of the City of Zagreb have paid dearly and still paid for, but are being poured out into the Sava River without purification. In fact, although the treatment fee paid in every cubic of water that citizens receive through a water network has been agreed, the wastewaters of Sesveda are not cleaned up, so the concessionary is enabled to make huge profits without real work. Citizens pay for purification, and water is poured into the environment or into the Sava without purification. The projects of sewage systems and wastewater treatment projects are to say that they are designed to be applied to European funds, but unfortunately this is not the case in the City of Zagreb. In the last year, over 600,000 kunas have just attracted funds from European funds. That state may not be able to do much, but there is responsibility in the local environment. It may have been possible to consider personal sanctions for local leaders and responsible persons at local levels that do not meet their obligations. Perhaps not, but the fact remains that all of us have to think about the current situation and therefore make certain personal and other moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105026	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Holly, you've made it very clear that there's a catastrophic situation in the environment and that the Ministry of Environmental Protection doesn't actually do its job as well as the Agency, and neither does the Environmental Protection Fund. It is clear that no strategic documents have been adopted as well as the most important documents, which is the waste management plan that was needed and which was the most important national plan document to regulate this problem. Not even 50 sublegal acts have been adopted that work out and regulate waste management issues. A dozen of them were brought in, and they were unprepared, unprepared, so that they experienced a salvo of objections from the profession. Now there's lawlessness, now there's something that shouldn't have happened in environmental protection, now it happens that each in its own way by different rules that are equally removed from the law each regulates its own problem. It is equally funny and sad that in practice these phantom studies are already trying to implement and implement the counties as a national programme, and they are neither visible nor transparently shown nor discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105028	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105029	Dear fellow Djakic, I think it's rather bizarre when HDZ people talk about crime in the environmental protection system when we remember what happened in previous HDZ governments just about the area of environmental protection and waste management. In that sense, and I told your colleague Branko Bačić there is absolutely no difference in the implementation of the environmental policy of your government and this government. This is precisely seen if we are looking at which key reforms were to be carried out, and they have not been implemented. If we're talking about a waste management system where waste lords like you continue to reign, I'm guessing pretty close to Flora VTC, like Drava International, like Pripuz's CIA. So I don't see any big and significant difference compared to the period in which you managed Croatia. I'm talking about a system of nature protection. Do we have any changes? We don't have any changes. I think that you should be very pleased with the policy of protecting the environment of this government, because it is a complete continuity in relation to the implementation of the policy that you have implemented not only in the ministry but also through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-20-0.u105030	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. Environmental report in the Republic of Croatia, 2014 for the period 2009-2012 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, 2014 for the period 2009-2012 is accepted.". Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 100 votes, the proposed conclusion has been accepted.
