ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102885	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We will continue to discuss - Final proposal of the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 799. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. All right, we got it. That's what you'll say after the break. I'm setting a break to 9 and 44.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102888	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me give you an introduction, therefore, the reasons and motives for the adoption of the new Insurance Act. So, quite extensive material, but that practically complements the existing Insurance Act. I must admit that we have been in a dilemma whether certain amendments and additions are complemented by this law in view of the complexity and size of the amendments that we therefore have in the European family. Therefore, the transposition of the Directive into national legal systems. Whether amendments and additions or the new Insurance Act, given that the amount of those Directives was significant and significant. We figured it'd be better if we passed a new law. Even more than 50% of the text would then refer to changes and additions and that would be a better solution. The basic part of the law has practically not been changed, so perhaps it has caused some confusion with regard to the amount of provisions that we are dealing with in this law, and that is also the motive, we have talked on committees, and it has been an objection when putting the agenda in place why, in an emergency procedure, and not in two readings, we estimate that we are still coming to do this in an emergency procedure. So, in the preparation of this new Insurance Act within the last year with the Ministry of Finance, professional organisations also participated, Croatian Insurance Office, HANFA, representatives of HGK, and on this side indeed all the provisions believed quite a bit. As I said in the opening sentence, this new law is a framework in the field of insurance, so it is primarily a alignment with EU directives and these two directives. The so-called Solvency 2 Directive. By Directive omnibus 2 which amends and complements the Solvency Directive 2 which was adopted in 2014. The time limit for transposition of these Directives is 31.03, and this law practically enters into force on 1 January 2016. So what were the basic goals of passing this law that we are proposing today? These are primarily the establishment of new rules in the insurance sector, greater protection of insurance and insurance users, prevention of disturbances in the insurance market itself and the last and least significant long-term stability of the insurance sector itself and thus the entire financial system. In particular, I would like to stress that this law therefore expects greater transparency in business and greater efficiency of risk management companies. Risks in the business of these companies must be recognised and managed in good time, and all, as I have said, by the main benefit of this law, the main motive for these directives to be adopted at EU level so as to preserve the stability of the entire financial system. Apparently offered by certain instabilitys that occurred 4, 5 years ago, this is a topic which requires such directives to be drawn up in European financial circles. Let me say something about today's picture, short one... , pictures of the insurance market in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, 25 insurance companies are operating in the Republic of Croatia, 1 resecuritisation company. Of these 26 companies, therefore, 12 are domestically owned, 14 are mostly owned. Within the total financial assets in the Republic of Croatia, still and above all, the bank's predecessors. So we can freely say that the Croatian market is a kind of banking market, since the share of the total assets on the financial market of banks is almost 74%. Mandatory pension funds are growing by their share, at 10.68% today and these companies which are now the subject of your and our law therefore share in the financial market of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of 6.5% I am talking about the 2013 data. In 2014, I call on sources to avoid confusion, the total charged premium was almost 8 billion and 560 million kuna, slightly larger in 2013, a million kunas more than 9 billion. Which will say that this market has also been under the influence of the crisis in the last few years. The number of employees in these companies is 11 533, and the total premium per capita in 2013 was 2127 kuna, of which 1532 for non-life insurance and slightly less than 600,595 kuna for life insurance. So a relatively small share of life insurance, in which we are in some ways different from the Western countries' market where the impact of life insurance means their weight in total insurance is significantly higher. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognises the importance of this sector, i.e. insurance and reinsurance, and through amendments to the Income Tax Act, the receipt based on life insurance on life insurance based on life insurance with the feature of savings is excluded from the so-called tax. On the other hand, the contributions from the contribution to life insurance have therefore been excluded. Before I move on to the key changes to this law, let me say that, in the current law as well as in this new law, one part of the legal provisions also speaks about consumer protection, so the consumer has the right to appeal to the insurance company for the provision of services, i.e. the enforcement of insurance obligations. Within 15 days, the insurance company must respond to these complaints, and the consumer has the right, not to say it worse, because we are not only talking to you but to the whole public, so the consumer has the possibility to submit a presentation to the HANFA which can check the allegations and statements and respond within 30 days. So every consumer has these rights and opportunities. So what are the key papers that we propose to you by this law? The first group is therefore a new regulation of capital adequateness. The existing system of regulation of the eligibility of capital and insolvency limits shall take into account only the insurance risk according to the principle of the premium index and the damage. The new strengthened to say so, the regulatory system introduces two levels of capital, the necessary capital capital and the minimum necessary capital for which both categories of calculation is significantly more complex than is existing. Thus, the minimum necessary capital represents the lowest allowable level of capital, must not be less than 25% but not more than 45% of the necessary capital of a particular company. The insurance companies are obliged to calculate it at least once a month and the result of the calculation is subject to HANFA controls. When we talk about the capital needed, he takes into account all the measurable risks that the insurance company is exposed to. Therefore, taking into account the risk of non-life insurance, life insurance and health insurance, it also takes into account market risks, credit risks and various operational risks. The insurance and reinsurance companies are obliged to calculate it at least once a year, and also their result of this calculation is reported by HANFA and then it has the possibility to monitor it further. I'll talk about it later. Another significant newspaper is the abolished restriction on the investment of assets. Therefore, this bill removes quantitative restrictions on the investment of assets that exist today. For example, investments in shares traded on a regulated market in the Republic of Croatia, in another EU member or OECD market. Today, no more than 25% of the required technical reserve coverage must be exceeded, so this quantitative restriction is lifted, but a qualitative restriction of course continues to exist. The third major change that your discussions will likely be about is the possibility for insurance companies to carry out resecuritisation operations. The existing law wouldn't let them, you had to have a special company. Therefore, all insurance companies will be able to carry out resecuritisation operations and without the need to establish a special legal person for these matters. The parent company will be able to carry out reinsurance operations for subsidiaries which will have a positive financial effect on the increase in income and inflows of additional cash. So this is what we expect our parent societies, therefore based in the Republic of Croatia, who have the desire and the will to spread to the markets, primarily the region's markets, but also beyond, have the possibility that resecuritisation operations can also carry out themselves and on these sides strengthen their international position. The fourth and most significant, quantitatively most significant group of amendments to this law refers to the increased role of the regulator of this market, which is therefore the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency or the more popular HANFA. The point of the whole point of this law is, therefore, that the supervision of the HANFA is carried out and that these provisions are stricter to reverse the future and be based on a larger number of risks that are monitored in this way. So according to this proposal, the HANFA's task is a new, enhanced task of identifying and controlling the risks of the insurance company. Therefore, to identify the risks to which the company is exposed or may be exposed in its business, for example insurance risk, market risk, credit risk, operational risk, risk... Concentrations, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These analyses of the way society manages the same risks. The weaknesses of a particular society and concrete measures and procedures that can be applied to the removal of these types of risks are identified and the role of HANFA is significant. The second task is to determine the overall approach, priority and intensity of supervision, it can be indirect or direct supervision for a particular company, therefore access to a particular company by HANFA is individual and this depends on the size and importance of the insurance company itself, depending on the activity it deals with, its role in the market, the types of insurance that deals with other key indicators such as capital requirements, quantitative business indicators, management system, strategy etc. So, based on which HANFA determines its plans and surveillance topics which, as I said, can be both indirect and direct. Another instrument here is the HANFAs that we're giving this bill is to assess the financial vulnerability to potential negative experiences of so-called. stress tests. In particular, insurance companies are called upon to manage possible adverse events that may affect their business in the future. Such management therefore includes carrying out stress resistance analysis in various adverse situations that can be predicted or can be planned as certain possible natural and all other disasters, adverse impacts of interest rates,... in the capital market, the prime minister falls, the purchasing power of the population, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So everything that can be predicted and then tested through certain stress tests, you can pull a particular parallel and with the banking market there is even if you can say so and a creative approach can be significantly wider even though the risks are quite similar. Another role of HANFA is therefore to identify the existing and potential deficiencies in the insurance companies' business. Therefore, it is based on continuous monitoring of business that is what is the newspaper of this law, therefore continuing to monitor business more regularly than it has been so far, doing previous analysis of companies, cooperating and talking with people who manage society and key functions in society, monitoring the risk exposure, managing these same risks, managing conflicts of interest, investing and other business processes that can distort the stability of society or affect their business but also the security of insurance companies. So much more significant and I dare say a very demanding role for HANFA. I must admit that in our talks with colleagues from HANFA and they have in some way accepted this bill as a very significant challenge for both their business and their quantitative and qualitative capacities. Last and least important is the promotion and preservation of the stability of the financial system and supervision of the legality of business. Therefore, the HANFA aims to preserve the financial stability of the entire insurance market with its activities and procedures as well as to protect insurance contractors, as well as insurance undertakings, as well as all users of the insurance contract, so to protect all participants in insurance operations but as I have already said several times today to protect both the entire financial system and its stability, which is absolutely important for the complete economy. In addition to all the existing changes ahead of HANFA and insurance companies, there are also new reporting and publication methods, so with already existing financial reports we also have a certain level of new reporting and these are supervisory reports on our own risk and insolvency assessment, annual and quarterly quantitative patterns. Reports and this is not irrelevant to the fact that insolvency and financial situation reports are subject to public reporting and include a description of the business and the results of these companies, a description of the management system, a risk profile, a description of the risk exposure and other information that may reflect the nature, scope and complexity of the business of insurance companies, and in particular the risks present in their business, so these reports will be publicly published. These are about amendments and additions, as I have said, quantitatively significant amendments and additions to this bill, and we have therefore decided that this is practically a new law, and they relate to a directive or a common agreement which has therefore been reached on the European market. So, in addition to these amendments and additions, let me add in this introductory letter two major amendments that we have assessed to fix our insurance law market. The first of them is that insurance representatives at the technical inspection stations will be able to sell more types of insurance from now on than they have ever been before. Therefore, according to existing rules in the cells for the technical examination of the insurance company other than accident insurance and liability insurance for the use of motor vehicles, etc. responsibility to third parties. After adopting what I expect from this bill, the following types of insurance will also be able to carry out, so insurance, insurance of road vehicles, insurance of goods in transport, insurance of legal protection costs, and assistance and assistance insurance. So extended action in the cells themselves for the technical examination. The requirement to secure the house was somewhat larger. Our assessment was that in the technical inspection stations, we were bound by the fact that only road traffic was taking place and that on this side we were able to expand the possibility of these types of insurance being carried out in the technical inspection stations themselves. The second major amendment, I say beyond these prescribed directives is the change of professional qualifications for the work of insurance intermediaries and... So far, according to the old system, I believe that it is easier for you and for me, only persons with high professional training could perform intervention activities and this proposal allows this and I say by the old system that they are doing this by persons with higher professional training according to the so-called previous education system, and instead of 300 ECTS points as it is now prescribed by 180 points according to the Bologna system and three years of experience you will be able to perform, i.e. Individuals will also be able to provide services to intermediaries in insurance, i.e. Their employees will be able to do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, let me point out that in the area of precisely these two areas, so these are slightly smaller changes but in the field of representation and in the mediating and more significant changes will follow only after the adoption of a new insurance intervention directive which is indeed in the final phase before the EU, so it is possible that I am now not enchanting but possibly, in this year, if not in this case, we have changes and additions in this field, so in coordination with European directives on representation and mediation. Here's the lady and gentlemen, this would be about what I wanted to say about this law at the inauguration. I thank you for your attention and openness to discuss the very proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102889	The Republic of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102890	Here, you've said a lot, I'd only be interested in one fact given the fall in the insurance premium in the last year as you stated and given the floods we had in the last year and because of the considerable destruction of the assets, the financial consequences of this will be felt for a long time, do you have any indications of how much impact the property premium will have after, especially for the floods, how much will it affect the insurance industry or what trends it will be, do you already have any indicators?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102891	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102892	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt, I even have some concrete figures, so when you called me to say something more concrete, I'm going to use a few of those figures that refer to the so-called catastrophic floods that we had in the middle of last year the biggest flood of the last 100 years. And what is the main problem, and we can all work together to not have this culture of insurance and culture built in fact a system of awareness of the usefulness of insurance. Fire, fighting, storms don't pick areas where they're going to hit, they just hit and the consequences, on this example, we see it best, feel it for years. And what's the problem in Gunja and in many other areas is that there was practically no insurance and that's what the problem is. And here's this affirmative debate I'm saying, and everyone else needs to be encouraged by individuals and companies so as much as possible to secure their assets in the end line but also by the life insurance that I've been talking about. So of these catastrophic floods, 58 were killed in the region from remembering two of them alone, only two in the Republic of Croatia but even 58 in the whole region. More than 100,000 houses and other buildings have been destroyed. In Croatia, the damage to 7500 buildings was, 19 public buildings, 2689 family houses were completely destroyed, evacuated, now I'm only talking about figures from Croatia, 13000 people, 8,000 thousand cattle, over 240 thousand, so over 240 tonnes, pounds of cattle died, several thousand rinks, moved mines from the Homeland War, etc., etc. Grocery of that, or almost nothing was secured and the burden fell therefore to the state and to the taxpayers as a whole. We all need to work together, I say, on the awareness of the consumers themselves, but also on the awareness of the businessmen. And changes and additions, i.e. This bill goes in this direction towards making insurance markets more affirmative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102893	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102894	Dear Deputy Minister, you said, it was etched in my ear that Croatian society or the Croatian state is bankocentric. In fact, you've done nothing wrong, the whole world is banking and Europe is banking because the world is ruled by banks. And we actually just have an idea that this Parliament can vote something and that it can be independent of banks. Now look at Greece, what the Greek government and what the Greek Parliament can do when you have an ultimatum of three of the IMF and others that are very powerful. 10 or 15 families that have been riched mostly in wars, which we know well who have virtual wealth. And we, when we discuss such things and I'm glad you brought it up, then we actually realize that we are dolls at the end and that someone else is pulling the strings. What could Croatia possibly be in the situation of Greece at the moment and standing under her throat, and that knife is held by 10-15 families who must have grabbed not capital production, but it is pure political capital on calculations, on wars, on blood, and that is the curse of all of us, and it is a curse that will surely happen to us as it is because those who rule the banks do not give in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102895	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102896	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vuksic, I hope that Greek curse as you have called it will not befall us, or it will not befall us in such an extent. The situation on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia as well as on the insurance market is relatively stable. I say, very often, I've been saying to this assembly that it's taken as a givenness and as a normal thing, unfortunately that's not the case. And in some of our neighbouring countries, Slovenia that comes from the same mile and environment, there were big moves a few years ago. The situation of happiness is not comparable to Greece, but I agree with you that certain similarities exist in this negative sense and that we will all have to do everything together, not only the Ministry of Finance but the Government as a whole, but the whole society as a whole, not to come to such difficult topics and dilemmas. You mentioned 10-12 families, we're talking about some 200 families, but it's not so causally related. When I was talking about the banking market, then it's something more banking than others, I'm saying it's with comparisons. So the total financial assets, I actually wanted to show how little this insurance market actually participates, and this is also a link to the replica that Mrs Vesna Škare-Ozbolt had, how small is the share of this insurance market,... insurance in the overall financial market of the Republic of Croatia, and how much we would like it to be more expensive precisely with the aim of preventing possible catastrophic damages that can happen both to climate change and to all other circumstances. We say what we want to prevent, so the share of the company's insurance and resecuritisation market is only 6.5% and the bank is even 74%. If we can raise that share in the coming years, it'll be valorized in some way, which doesn't mean it's not good for the state to have good and stable banks, but it's already a whole other topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102897	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102898	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support this insurance bill proposal. We consider it good because a large number of changes and embezzlements in the existing law that I think has changed twice over the past two years. For reasons of clarity and simpleness, it is far better to have a single law than a number of changes and additions in which almost those who read and interpret the law find it difficult to cope. After our country's accession to the European Union, practically one more liberal approach has been opened to the entry of Union insurance companies into the Croatian insurance market, but also to our insurance houses and societies is practically an open market for the European Union. Our country ranks practically for the first time as a member of the European Union according to three of the most important indicators of the development of insurance per capita, the share of the premium in GDP and the share of the premium of life insurance in the total premium. Of course, greater transparency, compatibility and competence of the market in Croatia is not only about the insurance market but also about other markets of other financial institutions. Now to what extent our insurance companies will be caught coming new or very quickly adapting and entering the European market, I think this law represents one good basis for further work on this. In these difficult times, virtually, opportunities are being created for strong and large companies to take over weaker companies and thus act as business consolidaters and it is expected, and this has already already started in Croatia to ensure that companies will take on such a role by adding new lines of insurance products and sales channels using the advantages of the economy, volume and management talent they possess. Security in the world economies is taking up one of the key positions. The share of insurance in the GDP of developed countries is very important, our goal should also be to increase the share of insurance in our national economy. Thus, the economic role of insurance is significant and, in practice, more than in any other activity, these individual global interests seem particularly important to the economy of each country. I will not repeat all that the Deputy Minister has already cited which advantages and what are the good things of this law, in particular which are newspapers in terms of higher levels of consumer protection, the calculation of capital adequateness, taking into account the profile of the risks of society, greater transparency, etc. So we absolutely support the adoption of this law because it not only adapts us to European criteria but also enables us to act not only better in the framework of national legislation but also to expand our activities to other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102899	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102900	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear deputy associate, esteemed colleague and colleague. The financial sector is one not even of the most important, but one of the most important but sensitive sectors in the economic life of a nation. And in it must be arranged all impeccable. The risk must be minimised. And is that how you approach the arrangement or not well-advised by the law-making procedure that regulates it? The procedure for this law-making guides us in the most inconclusive way possible to regulate this most sensitive part of social and economic life in Croatia. On Friday, the bill came on the agenda, and today it is already debated. Mr. Deputy Minister, have you read this law completely? I'm not asking you to answer that, but I know you didn't because you didn't even make it, you couldn't, physically you couldn't, because neither did I. I admit I haven't read it completely. The most important thing I could do, what I arrived at, I analyzed it, read it. This is harder than Anna Karena and more extensively, and you in three days want to pass such a most important law. We proposed to the Legislative Committee to go in two readings, you refused, I didn't hear the argument just rejected. This process of passing laws without public debate, without the possibility of intervention at all more serious in the draft law, it is a demeaning of the Croatian Parliament, it is a public underestimation of the Croatian Parliament. No one made any remarks on the Legislative Committee, no comments were made. It's said to point out which are the good side of this bill. It's just the law that everyone has to have the good side. Everything under the law must be just fine, there must be nothing wrong with the law. If we want to change Croatia a little bit, but this procedure does not suggest that it wants to change for the better, but this is an inappropriate way and some new methodology that threatens the most fundamental democratic rights. This isn't the Insurance Act at all, he just bears the name of the Insurance Act. This is the insurance company control law. This could've been called the HANFA Act. I cannot say that this is a mockery of democracy, a mockery of democratic parliamentaryism at all, and this is why I say so. We also refer to you as Deputy Minister, and you must know that there is a Law on fiscal responsibility and that there is an archaic solution to Chapter III. The assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law and normally does not require any budget resources for this law. It's perfect, it's great! And what about the assessment of the fiscal effects of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It keeps avoiding writing in the law. Why? We can't support laws like this that don't respect existing laws. And why aren't there evaluations? Well, because no one does, because no one cares. So those who are, who was involved in making this law? Where are the remarks? Where's the one remark that's in the debate today? There is no comment. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] The Web is a salvation to you all. But Article 8 of this proposal is publicly and legally discriminated against by men and women. I don't just know who or men are compared to women or women compared to men. I can assume, but I'm not going to publicly tell you who was meant to be. But I doubt it meant discrimination against men against women. The insurance premium depends solely on the level of risk. What is one sex more risky than another sex? Who thought of it in the 21st century so as to discriminate against one sex against the other sex? That one is because the other sex is a more risky group, because it needs different insurance premiums and that it must not be on an individual basis, but only on a group basis. Well, in a regulated country, it even seems, but only on an individual basis, because it's very important that one or more legal or physical person is exactly what sometimes health is to depend on insurance at all, not just insurance premiums. Maybe you should have looked for a genetic code, a history of disease for everyone here. Could he possibly be more capable of sex than each other? Is this where you thought that one sex was worse, that they were worse drivers than the other? Where are the records of that? Where's the statistics? What do you support? Who caused more accidents? And you don't know it, even though you know it, but you're setting the opposite by this law. And it is out of the question, and the law is not part of a single problem that is so visible in the everyday business of insurance companies. When someone buys an apartment and raises a loan to the bank, they're in a position to tell the bank yes, you got a loan, but you're going to secure it with you and that insurance company? Not that that's the case, that's the rule. Is that supposed to be done? It can't be done. Is that the use of power? The use of power, the abuse of power. Liaison of business is illegal, this law does not exclude it, instead of banning and punishing, to prescribe penalties for such. But what is it? If banks have become owners and pension funds and leasing companies and insurance companies and housing savings, then of course they can tie things up, and they shouldn't. So if we know that in practice they do what they shouldn't do then the law must eliminate it, such a negative phenomenon. He's forced to secure something that a man can't and has no money to secure, but he's being blackmailed. How do blackmails turn away, how do you fight them? By the law, we still allow it. The form of society, great, beautifully written only by a stock company can be an insurance company. What is the difference in Croatia between stock companies and limited liability companies? No way! There are more co-owners in some cases in limited-response societies than in stock companies. In most stock companies, only one owner. What kind of stock company is one of the owners? Is that what stock companies mean? Of course not. Thus, the legal provision is meaningless here and the underlying capital can also be prescribed to companies with limited liability to the necessary underlying capital. Because the purpose of the stock company is not the underlying capital but the number of co-owners in the decision-making process. When it comes to members of the administration, you have prescribed on 4 text cards the terms of the board members should have. 4 cards of the text condition without any condition. That's precedent! Why without any conditions and so many prescribed conditions? Because each condition must be measurable and verifiable, and all the conditions that are on these 4 text cards or 3 pages of A4 formats prescribed are neither measurable nor verifiable. But not one! We can several, says a member of the insurance company's management, can be a person who meets the following conditions at any time: first condition, expertise or has appropriate professional qualifications, knowledge and experience suitable for the management and management of the insurance company with the care of a good expert. But what kind of expertise is that? What does this expertise prove to be? What kind of ability is that? What is the appropriate knowledge? It's not there. Suitability, that is, has a good reputation and integrity. Again, how do you measure good reputation and integrity? Which means a good reputation today, and tomorrow it doesn't already have or which means a disguised good reputation just hasn't been revealed yet that it's a false good reputation. Well, those aren't the conditions at all. But unless the agency assesses. Thus, it is prescribed that someone must be not a member or that someone has worked on insurance companies unless the Supervisory Agency finds that the person does. So we give a discretionary right to an institution not to require a precise condition but to assess whether this person is capable of doing the job. What are they going to do, psychotests and knowledge tests? He says that a member of the administration may be the person to whom it is established, who can reasonably conclude that he will do his job fairly and knowingly. Great! Justifiably conclude that someone will work fairly. Who's the one who's going to justifiably conclude? Who? Who has such abilities? I would never dare to conclude that someone consciously and honestly, based on what? These conditions are just manipulative space and nothing more than that. He says that a member of the administration cannot be a society that does not know at least one member of the Croatian language. And what will the other member do? What will another member while he is a member of the board will he sit and listen and understand nothing? How is it possible that a member of the administration of a society in Croatia does not know Croatian? I will never agree to a member of the board of such important societies as a person who does not know Croatian because he could never do so in Austria or in Germany by any member of the administration. He could be an employee who speaks a little less but a member of the board to be a bank or an insurance company or such an important company without knowing the language at all, no. At the same time, this member of the administration who is wanted to know Croatian has no proof that he knows him. This will again subjectively be assessed by someone from the insurance company surveillance agency. Well, at least to say that he is obliged to provide a certificate of knowledge of Croatian language, where it is necessary. No, there's no way. Under these conditions, experience is required. And look at the experience, that a person has experience is considered to have at least 3 years of experience in leading positions or 5-year experience in jobs for which HANFA again estimates to have to do with insurance companies. Under these conditions, a university professor who teaches banking, insurance who has a college insurance or a college on risks can't be a member of the board, can't be a member of the supervisory board and someone who's been selling a three-year insurance policy like somewhere an agent he can be. Isn't that absurd over absurds? We rule out the profession here. What's with the colleges and the school? You don't need an education here at all to be a member of a board or a board of directors. And imagine what the Supervisory Board must do and approve financial reports, so it should understand the balance sheet, understand the tax balance, understand financial reports, strategy, business plans, and I guess it goes to colleges. No, you don't need anything for that, you just need the agency to tell you that you're capable of doing it. At the same time, this bill would have to eliminate what is, part of the law that defines pre-determined settlements, have to correct one illogicality, insurance is paid mostly in cash, and is not subject to the Law on fiscal responsibility and fiscal cash registers. It is not surprising, therefore, that there have been so many abuses, that the insurance policy that is paid by the mediators is not paid at all, but is only revealed when there is an accident or damage. The HDZ Club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102901	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102902	Dear counterpart Maric, you said that the way the law is proposed, the time it takes to read this law tells us that this is actually a mockery of democratic parliamentaryism. I fully agree with you, but we have had here, often and had the ridicule of democratic parliamentarians, and then at all, he wonders if we often mock democratic parliamentaryism whether there is even this democratic parliamentaryism or we have turned into what I said earlier into a doll house? And every time you speak in Parliament you know who makes the decisions, that's the majority. However, there is one but, regardless of the way the law is passed by emergency procedure, how much time do we have left to read it this law will be passed on Friday, so we just knew it or didn't know that Micky Mouse proposed it as well. It doesn't matter at all. It was said that the law had to be accepted no matter what it says, because they decided who on the other side of Mark’s square. You spoke and we've replicated several times about good reputation, many who were or were in Remetinco had a good reputation. Rewards when they are shared in Croatia for good business, you can already guess who will end up in Remetec. It means a good reputation in Croatia. Look, all those who were locked up in Remetec, who are sitting in Remetinco today who got all the awards, look at our generals who got the most decorated general who got where he ended up, never saw the battlefields. You were talking about the criteria, we started to step on it twenty-something years ago, those criteria, and to this day we step on it, and this is one of the results of the weighting of the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102903	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102904	Thank you very much. Col. Vuksic, this law is not the legislator's handwriting at all, the legislator will only participate with a sufficient number of voting hands. He didn't have time to comment on this bill, he didn't have time to read this bill, and he's going to be a legislator because legislator this, we vote this, though here's thank God that some won't. It just seemed like everything to get rid of the most important national companies. We got rid of Croatia's insurance, what did we get? How many more people have been employed since he was in private hands, what are the effects for the national economy since we sold this under every possible price that should have been for what was obtained, what did the Croatian economy get? Nothing, only the state lost. There is no justification for the application of the European Directive for such laws. Please listen to Article 142 of the formulae for calculating the basic capital required. This is what university professors teach, many who will raise their hands for this don't understand these formulas at all. How they will only be understood by those who, under the conditions prescribed, can be members of the board of directors and chairmans of the Supervisory Board and university professors cannot possibly come to that position which teaches them, who have the colleges. Why is knowledge excluded if ignorance is already involved, why is it excluded by law knowledge is disabled, someone who has been trained to do so cannot do so, and then we believe in a better society. And I believe in better company, but it's not built like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102905	Thank you. Frano Matušić replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marić, I agree with the past finding that there is actually a parliamentary democracy here, or trying to play it, at least one part of us will make its remarks on this bill, but the fact that the Parliament has been in fact for a long time, that is, since this coalition took over the responsibility of SDP, HNS and their partners are actually getting all the laws almost by emergency procedure. Almost everything is being debated by an emergency procedure, simply not leaving enough time to fix these bill proposals like this. It's amazing, you've also noticed that probably the deputy minister didn't read this text of the law, but it seems that if the government read it, then it's amazing that she proposed a law that was discriminatory. Article 8 is a discriminatory law. Does this mean that this government proposes one discriminatory law based on sex? That's right in front of us. If he hadn't already read the Deputy Minister, then I guess someone from the government should have read it. However, we can see that neither the Legislative Committee has read nor has it found any objection to Article 8 or does not suggest an amendment to that article or erasure of that article. We can only suggest the ruling erasure of this article, Article 8, which simply raises some other laws. Gender equality laws. But it's not a random practice, I'll remind you of lex Vlahusic. You all know that in the Croatian Parliament we spoke here that we are passing a law that is not in accordance with the Constitution. Even the Legislative Committee noted that it should be brought into line with constitutional principles. In his second reading, however, he also missed the Committee on the Legislatives of his remarks and simply raised their votes for it. And after that, the Constitutional Court, of course, put outside the law that article of the law and nothing happened to anyone. So it tries to do one party will, of course, to the harm of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102907	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102908	Thank you very much. Coli Matušić, I agree with one addition only, the Committee on Legislatives at its session made an observation on this article 8 and warned that such a solution could be the result of only a stereotype of one sex that is ruling. That one sex is more incompetent and more risky than the other. Which is inadmissible that anyone's brain can function on such a basis. And that's why he's only discriminating the article and he shouldn't stand in any law because he shouldn't discriminate against anyone. But when you talk about abilities, Article 93 says key functions and key functions holders within the management system are required to take into account the nature, scope and complexity of this business to form the following effective key functions. So the board of directors along with the board of directors. Risk management function, compliance monitoring function, internal audit function, actuarial function. You are convinced that those conditions laid down for the terms of the management and supervisory board and which exclude expertise and education allow Article 93 to be achieved in practice. I don't think it's possible to do this with one of these. At the same time, Article 164 is said that insurance companies under certain conditions can be paid an advance on profits. Well, there's nowhere more dangerous to pay a deposit to get as in financial institutions. Because this can always be proved to be bad business and profit is paid for something that later proved to be bad. They pay off bonuses for something that later paid off badly. Here it is said that many who have worked in socialist societies have the advantage. Some should be prohibited from working in insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102909	Thank you. Next replica Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102910	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Maric, you said in one of your discussions, that there was a problem with the law-making process. I fully agree with you on the procedure and on the issue of parliamentary democracy where parliamentary deputies should be allowed to prepare, on certain legislative proposals, to deliver their opinions, to consult with the profession. In this case on Friday we received one material from its 300 pages which clearly made it difficult to read and let alone study better. But probably you and I are mistaken. Because when I take the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget which is the parent committee when it comes to this law, then in their first statement, the first... , it was commended on how to prepare and draft such a large law, in particular with regard to the inclusion of the profession which made its observations and proposals on the law in question in the public debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I ask the question, ddbor had his own session that I saw, the 27th we got these materials, did the board members ever see what it says in that material so that we could make these conclusions, direct us here to the Parliament to support this bill, or was it decided all Friday most of them will vote on it, regardless of what the law is?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102911	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102912	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, when a law was passed to which the public was quite negatively reacting then we had the opportunity to read in the media what those who had passed such a law and passed with pictures, names and last names, or named or praised, did not matter, most of them were called. So the entire public, the Croatian public considers any law responsible for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and no one else. Who passed this law? It will be brought by the Croatian Parliament and the MPs will vote. Will anyone in the media know of any member of the task force who made this bill? He won't. Who's in the task force? You don't know. Who made that law? You don't know. And the procedure imposes upon him who will be known and who truly brings it has no time to look at it. The Committee on Finance and Budgets could see him for 3 hours before the session began. What will a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget do in those 3 hours? Of course, it will only be possible to decide that this is a great procedure and that this should be an example of how laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament. I'm just going to fill it up one more time because there wasn't enough time. Article 60 states that a member of the Supervisory Board agrees on business policy and strategic objectives, on the financial plans of the insurance company, on the agreement of the Risk and Management Policy Strategy, on the procedures of his own risk and insolvency assessment, on the agreement of the internal control system, on the framework annual programme of internal audit work. This is the most complex possible responsibility anyone can... so there must be conditions that prescribe the highest degree of expertise and education for such a function, and they rule them out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102913	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102914	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you were talking about this law, and we don't know who actually wrote it, he came to the bench and you realized that the deputy minister didn't read it either. Interestingly, in this 700 - page bill, there are no objections or interested parties. We have always had that, after the public debate was carried out, there have always been comments that interested people made suggestions or any comments, critical or constructive remarks to the Government or the Proposer. That's one thing. Secondly, when you're talking about a business model, when you're raising a bank credit in any bank, then you're bound to be insured by an insurance company that's tied to a bank. It's not an example, it's become a rule. I've had the same experience on several occasions. So in order to get a housing loan at all, to borrow it is no longer any more, it must be said, it must be life-secured with that and that insurance. It's a rule, it's not an example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102915	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102916	Thank you very much. Croatian institutions often do not act in the protection of national interests. One such institution is the Competition Protection Agency, which has never responded to the abuse of market position power and market power, which is often used by financial institutions today by both life insurance and fire insurance and flood insurance, to transfer accounts, gyroaccounts or current accounts to the bank. If you're going to raise a loan then a bad mortgage and everything, you must both current account and jury account if you're a legal person, secure everything with them and transfer all the money. It is not allowed, but the agency allows it because the agency has been serving to combat competition, not to promote competition, and it has been doing so for years. We created an institution from HANFA instead of a regulatory body. HANFA is no longer a regulatory body, it's an institution. She's no longer independent. This was not written by the legislator, this was written by those who are interested, most interested directly in insurance companies through any way. It's their handwriting, like the handwriting in an institution that monitors them, but then we can't go forward. Therefore, the conditions for not being a member of the board of directors and a member of the Supervisory Board are also prescribed so that those who have prepared this law may not be able to be a member of the Board, because someone with authority and knowledge would never agree to some variants or appointments of some of the insurance companies that are now appointed, but would not enter into business for insurance companies that do not have employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102917	Thank you, colleague Maric. Time's up. Next replica, Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102918	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Comrade Maric, I agree absolutely with you that the Parliament has unfortunately become a machine for passing fast and bad laws. I don't just know who's in the interest of it, I think all of us sitting here should be in the interest of what I'm saying, combing everything from beginning to end so that the laws are passed as God commands. I will, given that I've worked in insurance for over 30 years, only one bad segment that the state would have to run in control but unfortunately doesn't control, it's bonuses. The bonuses are certain insurance conditions last year, only last year, less than 500 million kuna was earned on the basis of car liability. The tax is 15%, so the state lost 75 million kuna last year due to illegal bonuses and reduced car liability premiums. Because we all know today they say come and secure us, you got free hair in that hair salon and that hair salon. Come make sure we've got 200 kuna on that and that gas station. Unfortunately, the state and I as director in Croatia have been warning this for years, and I wish someone could calculate today how much the state or state budget has lost over the past 20 years and 24, 25 years as it has lost. But I'm saying for last year 2014, only 75 million kuna was lost due to a lower income car liability. Nobody cares about that. There are controls, there are penalties, there are fines huge, from the withdrawal of licenses and everything else, but unfortunately no one is deprived of the license.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102919	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102920	Thank you very much. When you talk about the law-making procedure, colleague Kulušić, every law should only correspond to the interests of the nation, not to individuals. And this procedure cannot in any way suit the interests of the nation, because there is not enough time and the necessary professional people are excluded to participate in the creation of such a law and to correct where they are eliminated from the management and supervision of insurance companies. Here's an example. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The management must run operations of insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia. So, not from the company headquarters, but from the Republic of Croatia. What's he saying? And where will the board sit? Jobs can be run from Split, where 90% of jobs in Zagreb are remote control. This never stood before, this is something someone deliberately brought. If it's on purpose why? Because Croatian insurance or other insurance companies must be managed from the island, while the dangers of some new situations are not predicted. In any such sensitive societies, it should be legally prohibited for computer centres and computer centres to be out of Croatia, as is already happening in the banking sector. I heard the Central Bank agreed to one of the largest banks in Croatia to export the computer centre abroad. Imagine what a threat to national interests and national sovereignty is? If we know it's possible, then why doesn't the law prohibit it from losing all possible data.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102921	Thank you, colleague Maric. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your quote, you expressed the surprise and irresponsibility of the ruling on the inclusion of this item of the agenda on Friday and the lack of time to study these materials, and you also said that the Legislative Committee did not make any remarks, not a single comment on this law. It is true that this law is addressed to an emergency procedure like many other laws or majority in this Croatian Assembly. That wouldn't be a problem if it were some regulatory provisions, but I don't know in this case if it's just that. But not only you, but many have wondered, in fact, what is being passed and amended by this law. Because if you remember the current insurance law we changed seven months ago, out there in the seventh, late seventh month of 2014. And what actually happened? That due to this application of the Solvency Directive, Member States are obliged to transpose that directive into national legislation by 31 March 2015 and that is, in fact, the reason for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, and the objective of this Directive is to set one new, stronger rules and requirements for the adequateness of capital, introduce changes in risk management and improve the rules for the valuation of assets and liabilities. Now, it would be good to know which insurance and in the Republic of Croatia is actually operating in the EU and what are the risks that will result from this from Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102923	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102924	counterpart Babic, the EU directives are most often an excuse to implement something that is of interest to someone else, not to the general and national interest. And of course we need to implement the EU directive, but then we need to quote it and literally say it's the part we're implementing. What is the EU directive here or not is best known is the comparison of the Insurance Society Act to our Austrian. Well, you'll see so many differences, even this formula isn't the same, neither is true. That's impossible! The conditions for a member of the Board and the Supervisory Board are not the same, it is not an EU directive. Why are they changing, why are conditions being determined? Well, it's someone else's idea not the idea of the EU. The EU cannot think of a trap to discriminate on knowledge. Well, who can think of it as just our own. There is obviously a conflict here between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Science, because while in colleges, passers-bys are approved by the College and the post-graduate study of risk and insurance management, the new college is being introduced, the Minister of Finance says it is not worth it, such a distraction in society will not be applied or used its knowledge. Well, that's absurd! It's either one or the other, something unnecessary. What is this government policy coordination? I think it's more necessary to prefer knowledge than to forbid it. And I think it's right here that the Minister of Science approves such colleges and such programs, and that the Minister of Finance is wrong when he allows the elimination of those who are educated for what this law prescribes. And then this law records no, you're not going to get a job in insurance companies, you're going to the Employment Service or abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102925	Thank you. Davorin's Mlakar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102926	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maric, you said well in your performance. This isn't the Insurance Act. He's already wrongly called, given the content of the law. He's the least talking about insurance and insurance business. What you didn't seem right to tell me is that it looks like Anna Karen's. I'd rather say war and peace and that literally, but also in a transfer of meaning. Why am I saying that? Because you mentioned that the Legislative Committee had suggestions that this law go into two readings. On Friday, when this law was included as well as 90% of others by emergency procedure, but with another explanation, we asked for an exemption or exception from the rules to buy time to at least read the law. The law has 464 articles, I'll repeat that until you're tired. And it is not possible to assume that the representatives of the agenda will be able to refer responsibly to all this legislation until today’s debate. But when you were already talking about that this is the position of the Parliament that the government brings us to, and that's quite true, you may have missed something else that's interesting, this law even in its explanation is brought only for some, as we normally do, and in this case it says that the vulnerability of insurance companies is due to a double blow that could be experienced by the fall of asset values and the lower risk-free interest rates, so it should be taken care of. And it's all because of the stress tests that these societies have been subjected to. I suggest we try the stress test at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102927	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102928	Thank you very much. I'm not sure now, but I accept the observation that it looks more like war and peace than Anna Karenina did, Anna Karen's first sits down more because I still remember from a long time ago when I read her how much she gave me headaches because of the scope. Here, apart from the Ministry of Finance and their responsibilities, the most irresponsible is the Government's Office of Law. Is this office so afraid of those above it that they do not obey common sense or laws? So they don't follow the basic rules of law? They miss whatever is planted on them, I guess it's like the train station only sells tickets so they pass the law of the one who comes to the office to pass it to the Croatian Parliament. I would like to point out Article 198 which defines the obligations of the audit society, which is also omitted to objectively object to the real situation. We constantly impose new burdens on employers. We prescribe audits for them, we prescribe tax advisors in certain categories, which is a huge cost for employers and no one prescribes what are the same obligations. What is the responsibility of the audit society? Let one person give me one responsibility, in law there is no responsibility of the audit society and it is imposed and costing, and it costs a lot and has no responsibility at all. What is the tax advisor's responsibility? No way!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102929	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102930	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maric, you were talking about the risk, and I agree with you here. But it is evident that when you look at the plates of cars in Croatia, you think that the only city in Croatia is the one that starts with the DA. So clearly, when you see this and that risk assessment that insurance companies are playing with, and that's not solved by this law, then you actually see that it avoids certain cities and damages especially in major units of local administration. Well, I'm sure you should, and that part... also regulate but also risk cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've touched your colleague into something that some are afraid to touch, especially at the Ministry of Finance. We see that this law is from Friday to Friday, and it's likely to be voted because someone ordered it. But the one who orders and writes the law is certain that he will not recommend that the law says that insurance companies must introduce fiscal registers. And then they'd cut off their own hands and legs, but I'm afraid of the most hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102931	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102932	Thank you very much. As a result, I also mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club that it is unacceptable for insurance companies not to comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Act and that they do not have fiscal accounts. If something is exempt from the law, and the Fiscal Responsibility Act says, on cash traffic, I'm sorry, says everyone who deals with cash must have fiscal cash registers, and then says except. If there is anything other than it has to be explained and there is a reason why someone is disfellowshipping himself from the general principle. Why does someone have privileged status? Why isn't someone worth what everyone else is worth? That has to be justified. Why are insurance companies excluded from this? It's never been explained, it's just said it's so. And imagine, you have to pay 5 kunas of coffee and a fiscal bill to get, but 6000 or 20,000 or 50,000 kuna to pay for the yacht, for the truck, for the boat you can pay in cash. I don't understand that. And it can only be purposely malicious, no different. Especially when it turns out in practice wrong, and then the Ministry of Finance doesn't want to fix it, and that was an opportunity to correct it in this law. I don't know why. And this thing with registrations and all of Croatia will be a little bit longer and it will flood and only have two letters on the license plate. At the same time, it should be noted that more and more cars are in traffic and without insurance and unregistered and imagine what the problem is when they cause a collision. What about the damages? Has anyone done an analysis of how much court proceedings are due to the damages? And why are court proceedings even going on? What's that for? Apparently, someone's putting an insurance company in a bad position. And then some of the insurance companies pay off, some don't. You can tell from analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102933	Time for my colleague Maric. Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic came to the floor. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I didn't expect it to be such a heated debate, I thought I'd finally turn around but here's to take advantage of this business opportunity to break down some of the topics and dilemmas that occurred in this debate, the second debate on behalf of the club, which for reasons is a number of replicas and within the club itself. Despite the public's views, I know that the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is not easy, until recently I sat there in these benches and I understand you from that side, and in these replicas we heard a whole series of good proposals on repairing both this and these other laws. So I remind you all together that we in the Government of the Republic of Croatia want and therefore expect a number of smart bill proposals, amendments and additions to the law, we will look forward to them. I think this assembly of the Parliament is here to say the thintest and that there really isn't a lot of proposals except for fellow Labourists, I see they had one significant set of proposals, but other amendments and additions to the law are not too much. We are, when I have already compared countries mostly, I think that our percentage of the legislation proposed by the Government is the largest in Europe, and on that side I call on all of you to be a little more active in this business. Why am I saying all this? Mr. Maric, you said that the deputy minister had not read this bill, so some other colleagues have gone ahead, I'm afraid that you haven't read what's on Parliament's pages and what's here, and I wouldn't want to document to all of you, the Parliament's presidency has decided when and how these points of order are coming, but on the Parliament's pages today you have and for a long time you have a material called consulting with the interested public what I was talking about at the beginning, you have 78 remarks that are interested in the public, the Croatian Insurance Office, the Chamber of Commerce, GRAWE Insurance and some others have given and they are in addition to your materials, whether they are copied or not in the hard version again, but they are located around this. Therefore, the debate was held, today on March 4th, between January 20th and February 3rd, it stands there nicely. Therefore, everyone, I thus experience it do not take it as a doctorate, but every interested representative within his capacity and obligation could see these laws, and participate there and contribute. I'm calling you all together this way and really contributing to the improvement of this law together. Why is he going through an emergency procedure? We also talked on committees, it goes because, and that's what my colleague Mlakar, the grotesque of this law, said, and I was introducing attitudes from these two directives. So there's no wavering, that's take it or leave it, about the supervision of the insurance companies, and that's the amendments and additions to this law. And on this side we have to transpose them and install them into our laws and there is no difference between, other than the language, between the laws of Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, France, Germany, etc. So these provisions that play a role in both the HANFAs and all other factors with the aim of preserving financial systems are incorporated into all other laws. And as for the attitudes you've expressed on behalf of the HDZ Club, I don't know if we all read them together, I hope it won't be too provocative, but I'm not sure that the views you've expressed fully reflect the views of some of your other colleagues otherwise, I think you're here, I'm very fond of and funny about your approach, and I think that as a parliamentary representative you're contributing to this work of the Parliament and I didn't get mad at what you're saying you haven't read, I've read it quite yet and on a yearly basis, the seven days I've been able to vote behind the New Year's, and all these two, three months. I'm sorry that you and some other colleagues failed to read it, but I say it depends on the dynamics of the Parliament, why it was included on Friday and already today is on the agenda is not a question for executive power, it is a question that you still have to solve with yourself. But I say again the law has been available to all of us for almost two months now in 99% of its completeness and it exists in accordance with our legal procedures in the ability of all of you and the interested public as the document says nicely, and on the website of the assembly it is and you can now look at 78 remarks. Therefore, all together would need a little more responsibility. It's nice to say this way that someone hasn't read, that the laws are passed overnight, that they're just voting, but I say it's not correct, I'm sitting alone with you yesterday, it's not an easy job for Parliamentarians, it's a lot of laws, but that's why we specialize in each other's circumstances and can follow what follows together. Here's hoping I didn't do too much, I was provocative, but I had to simply deny some of the things that were said in this debate of yours, and then repeat myself through a series of replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102935	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have reports of replicas. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102936	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, I don't mind this conversation of yours, but he's nice to me, but you didn't deny anything because I didn't say you didn't read it, I asked you if you'd read it because it's impossible to read it. And I admitted that I couldn't read it all the way. Here's exactly how much I've studied. But you haven't answered what's most important, why is cash payments possible without a fiscal cash register in insurance companies? You did not answer that and that is the essence of these remarks. Secondly, why do you prescribe the conditions for a member of the administration on four text cards without any conditions that are measurable and verifiable? You didn't answer that, so you think it's politicizing? This is what you consider a demagogue to be a member of the Supervisory Board that you are eliminating the most professional persons in Croatia, do you consider it demagogy? And you didn't look back at that at all now, but you looked back on how there was a replica inside the club, of course it wasn't, then it turns out that your people are all thinking the same thing about this law that I don't agree with, I don't think everyone thinks the same thing but they have to keep quiet because they're just waiting to raise their hand for this because they can't even ask. This is devastating because the pace and procedure of law-making is so imposed that the proponent and the person in the position of the Assembly must not be in, but must act in harmony, that no one must make any remark at all, even if it is normal and natural and logical. Therefore, comments and requests from the opposition to participate in the draft law may actively participate in the second reading and have not taken place in an emergency procedure. This reaction and this is impossible to correct with the amendments because you know that the amendment can only affect the current text, and you want to deliberately avoid second reading and go into emergency procedure and then invoke that we do not participate in lawmaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102937	Thank you. Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic's reply. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I said, Mr. Maric, I appreciate your contribution to this House and the public, we have often faced many shows and you are certainly one of the more active parliamentary representatives. I say, when you speak on behalf of the club, then just because of your freedom, then it's a little harder to define her. And I'm saying, some of the thesis, at least it sounded to me, I'm saying, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, I'm not sure they're reflecting the attitudes and other colleagues and policies that the HDZ had to implement three or four years ago, around some other provisions. I have to repeat that this law is 10 days in Parliament, whether it's enough or not, I don't know, that 60 days is available to the public, so it's on the Ministry of Finance's website and that he's been in public debate. And I'm saying that the debate began on January 20th, now on January 20th. And I know it's not easy and I know it's not easy, it's a lot of laws, but I'm saying anyone who wanted to could and should've contributed to this law could've done it in the last 60 days. And anyway, I encourage all of you to be more active here, and you all know that both the door and my office and the office of Minister Lalovac are open to all MPs and that we're spotlessly responding, we're trying. And I say with courage we look you all in the eye together and we want our process to be better. Why, with this dynamic, I say, we have also been waiting for this delegated regulation by the European Union. Why sometimes with our dynamics that's hard to do is our problem, but I'm saying, it's the job that we have to do. You, Mr. Representative Maric, certainly know that fiscalization is not the subject of this law, so if we can change something in this respect, every proposal is welcome so let's see, there were arguments why these aren't banks, why they're not insurance companies, that I'm not going any further, but we need to see. As far as these members of the administration and the provisions are concerned. Look, the law has 464 articles, detailed regulations. That's your principled point. I think we need to believe... Just a second, one sentence, Madam Vice President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That we must trust institutions that are also Croatian institutions, which are relevant, which will determine what is the relevant member of the administration. HANFA among these companies, the Croatian National Bank at the banks and I think it's a good principle. I agree that you can. Okay. I've gone too far, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102939	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102940	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said you were pleased with your colleague's wit in the House, but the wit here is not mandatory. This isn't a place where we should have fun, it's a place where we should do some work. Argumentation is more crucial. And what makes me happy in these discussions so far was argument. You also said that the government expects the opposition's proposals so that it could make, let's say some constructive, constructive legal provisions. The government expects them, gets them, gets them from some clubs, you said yourself, a laborist and often and neatly one by one without exception rejects them. So as long as it takes human stupidity to suggest again, so let me suggest one more time, so I suggest again, you'll throw it all away anyway. As far as the law itself is concerned, there's a manuscript in the law. You can see who wrote it, or whose interest it was written for. One of the arguments is of course fiscalization, another argument is internal management, there are other arguments. The law was written by those who needed such a law. The law isn't good. And it would be very fair to pull him out of the emergency procedure and put him in normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102941	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102942	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, yeah, I don't know about this wit, I think I've used some other verbs, argumentation, the justification of Mr. Maric's debate, and then the wit or receptiveness of the public, and then, in any case, it's good and worth more in the presentation of certain suggestions. I think that many of the thesis presented by Mr. Maric, to once again praise him, very well founded and very good, the question is how much, I say those are the expressions of a personal attitude and how many views of the club of representatives he represents but let us play the subject now. As far as the proposal for a law that the Government adopts or does not accept, I think, I am actually sure that the statistical sum of the Parliament is the smallest in terms of how many proposals of the laws of the representatives themselves or of the clubs themselves are in relation to those brought by the Government in relation to the previous calls of our Parliament and in relation to, here I am not quite 100% sure about all the European Union parliaments, but we are certainly at the top of the top 3 or 4 in this regard in terms of the number of laws passed by the Government. Is it good or bad, whether it's the fault of the government that all the proposal will refuse at the beginning or not depends on the angle of the observer. I think we all need to meet in the end line our constitutional line and use that right to propose certain laws. Here's my colleague Holly, who doesn't have her, so I can also commend her, who is practically in this House has quite a production and advocacy issues, etc., I also commended the Labour Club, but here I encourage you all together that in the extreme if this evil government doesn't accept it, however, things are open to the public and for some pressure, and on that side we need to see. So with interest, here you are in your replica too, you said that this law is wrong, that it should not be accepted, here I am with interest, although I am not sure that you are more a member of the club, and I want to listen to the next debate on behalf of the club to really fix this law and not to talk about something that is not written in the law itself, or he does not prescribe it. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102943	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102944	Thank you very much. I also thought, as well as my colleague Maric, that you would answer for the fiscal cash register especially when we know that 8.5 billion are turned into an insurance year and a good part of the job is done without a fiscal cash register. It was logical that you would answer or at least try to do something in that segment. But just now you've been waiting for us Assembly representatives to know whether we're going with specific proposals or not. So I'm going to tell you that the HDSSB went on a nine-month stand-up, kidnapping and actions by Croatian citizens from the only property they own. And you can imagine that proposal was last week's point 56th and look at the agenda, this week is point 57th, so it's probably going to be point 58 next week. Well, I'm afraid that such legal proposals that are good are in the interest of our fellow citizens will never come to order. I hope so, and last week the President of the Republic of Croatia responded to this very bill, so I hope that she will push as well as we in the Croatian Parliament to finally give people the opportunity to come to a little freedom. But it is evident when it comes to some laws that help some of the owners of insurance companies to get rid of it within a week. These are questions that we need to discuss in the Croatian Parliament and resolve here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102945	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102946	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's the thing about fiscalization to answer. She's not the subject of this law, but the fiscalization law itself is open, and if you ask me personally, I'm the one who remembers what resistances are, I've been sitting here, I think I've been defending him on behalf of the club, talking about the positive benefits of that law. We remember what resistances were to the law itself, and we remember what they are, we actually know what the effects of that law are today, and today we are all used to these relationships together and even one of our export products on that side. In fact, he's open, we at the Ministry of Finance think about him daily, and I personally think that we have to and do it anyway, but I'm not ready to share it with the public, that we need to move forward in raising the efficiency of the fiscalization itself because it has shown certain benefits and we work on it all the time. As far as this second bill of yours is concerned, I am here as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I say on the border alone, we are colleagues of the former, and perhaps a little provocatively, I would not like to prepare, but the agenda of the Parliament is not in the domain of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is possible that if the Government has a slower view of the law, and the more complex, better and quality the government needs in line with its responsible role and takes a little more time to study it. So if the blame is on the part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we will do everything possible to respond on this side as soon as possible and give our opinion on the advantages and disadvantages of certain drafts of the law, but you will have to see, look in the mirror and agree on the agenda of the Parliament. When that point comes to the agenda, it is not within the scope of the executive authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102947	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102948	Dear Deputy Minister, here I am going to start with what you just said and before you talked about it in your discussion that the agenda is not a matter of government but a matter of Parliament. However, we know what side of Mark’s square offers come from, on which side Mark’s square dictates the agenda, we know that well. The other thing I like about it is you complimented HDZ, and you certainly didn't want to say it. You told Mr. Maric you didn't know if he spoke for himself or how much he spoke for himself and how much in the name of the club. This means that HDZ is such a democratic party that it allows their members to have their own opinions, and now all of a sudden it bothers you. You'd like him to just be on behalf of the HDZ Club. Well, I think whatever my opinion of HDZ is, but they're saying the same thing, why don't they have the right to their own opinion. ... The only thing is, I said Mickey Mouse would give that proposal, most of them would accept it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is precisely the inactivity of members who are in power in the Assembly that they often disagree, they do not want to discuss it. And now you've educated us about this, you've given us a piece on how we should work at the Croatian Parliament. I wrote the law one and I wrote a few additions to the law, but you rejected them all. Not that you rejected them, even when it was debated about a government law that was several times worse, you didn't put it on the agenda to argue equally about one law and another, but you gave it a month later. It's the HRT Act. Another thing that, Mr. Milanovic, when he was in the opposition then said was not the opposition to run the state and propose laws but rather power. Come on, you run the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102949	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102950	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It may have been one statement by President Milanovic, SDP's president Milanovic from the opposition benches, but the SDP had 50 in the previous assembly of parliaments, a slightly smaller bill which was also the subject, although at the end of the agenda but came on the agenda at 9-10 in the evening and I think the good part of the law was founded. One significant part we have also installed in this period of power over the last three years. When I objected or commended, and now you're either receptively or funnyly saying this club of HDZ MPs, however, I personally encourage democracy in all clubs. It seemed to me that Mr. Maric spoke more personal attitudes than agreed views. I've heard other HDZ deputies who don't have that, I'm looking for a milder... radically but one particular stronger attitude. Mr. Maric spoke on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, and on this side he is also obliged to present the club's positions. But I don't want to, and I apologize again if it's understood as any kind of doctoring and I don't want it to be a debate, maybe even overstepped some of my moral criteria. And as for this second or first complaint of yours, I am also trying to remind you that this law would have been accepted by the ruling majority if Mickey Mouse had been a proposing, just below the belt, but here I am also trying to remind you that Mickey Mouse is not an authorised promoter. Authorised promoters are parliamentary representatives, representatives clubs, committees and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102951	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102952	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, I think a lot of the things we're talking about here are about this other law that we're going to discuss today. However, what I would like to say is that this law that is in line with the European Union directives would be okay if we hadn't euthanized the HANFA in a certain way. If HANFA were stronger than it was three years ago then these provisions wouldn't be at all controversial. However, we have unfortunately converted HANFA to one purely administrative, not the control body of the non-banking financial sector, and I think it is the biggest falling in the implementation of this law because when we know that HANFA gives consent to the appointment of presidents and members of the administration, and it is precisely known under what conditions and that this HANFA is not in a certain way and almost euthanized, then there would not be a disputed lot of these things. And as for the fiscal register, that's why I mentioned this law that we're going to discuss after this accounting law, you have in that law, you have rules about cashier business. And I think some things are clear. And also clear insurance payments, because if this is a document based on which a single service was created, then that document must be entered in the accounts on the basis of a credible documentation. And if that's the case, then the absence of a fiscal register can be justified by that. But if that's not the case, and obviously not, then I don't see any reason why someone could work without a fiscal cash register, and at the same time some small merchant or craftsman who may not have daily traffic or anything we're making him have a fiscal cash register.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102953	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102954	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, yes, Mr. Schuker, perhaps you've confirmed this bold thesis that Mr. Maric may not have spoken entirely in the name of the club but rather more of his reasoned, high-quality and responsible views precisely by saying that HANFA has been euthanized, and this law gives her a slightly greater authority and in terms of controlling the insurance society itself and we're practically strengthening its role, and he's critical of his speech. And he's critical of this, and why don't we prescribe it even more concretely and reduce that maneuvering space or the roughly expressed power of the agency that I'm saying is called HANFA in this respect. As far as the Accounting Act following this proposal is concerned, probably after lunch, I will be happy to hear your views as well. What is joyful is that this law is in the first reading, so we can see from that side all possible repairs about the very Accounting Act planned to enter into force 1.7. But if we can move towards a stronger, better, more efficient, more high-quality fiscalisation in order for all cash traffic to be recorded, to be charged, and then by building an equal match in the final line and assuming that certain types of taxes are possible and reduced when they all pay it, then we can reduce it. However, I look forward to all the arguments that will be made in that law, I say which are in two readings, and then we really get to fix things. We'll also have one amendment on the transparency of the data for that law. But so I don't talk about that law that follows here, I'm finishing my replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102955	My colleagues and colleagues are asking questions about this week's work. Today, we're going to do the agenda points with the fourth, the 9th point tomorrow, and Friday the tenth item of the agenda. And now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party of the work of colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102956	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. I'll go back to this part of the procedure, but also this set of replicas that were related to the procedure because I think it's very important. The deputy minister said all clubs should propose parliamentary legislators, engage in public debates which I think is good and Croatian Labourists have shown what the deputy himself said with 20 of his proposals. And today we have referred to a bill of law that is 21 proposals, but clearly when we are discussing certain legal solutions, then we must have time and opportunity to study certain laws, to prepare ourselves in quality and ultimately to justify and discuss it. I am afraid that this proposal, which we received on Friday, on page 310 with 464 articles, was neither an opportunity to discuss it in quality terms nor to prepare quality, nor to conduct a quality discussion today except to point out this part of the problem to the procedure itself. Because regardless of this, if the directive states that the law should be adopted by an emergency procedure, it should not have taken the first item into the agenda immediately today. He could have been at the debate next week, so he gave us a certain opportunity to prepare ourselves a little better, which I think would be a benefit to everyone, and not in fact that we are not discussing today the quality and certain solutions within the law, but rather, in practice, to complain about the procedure itself, which clearly as parliamentary representatives, and we certainly have the right to complain if we are not able to prepare ourselves qualityly and discuss ourselves in the debate. When the law itself, the deputy minister said that the interested public could manifest itself on the draft bill and he was leading us from January 20th to February 3rd. And as far as I've noticed only the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Insurance and Grawe Insurance are involved in that part of the public debate on the very law. Others may not or may not have known that the law was under discussion. But also what the Deputy Minister said was not in his jurisdiction when any item of the agenda would be included in the parliamentary procedure clearly that it was in the presidency's jurisdiction. But I have to point out another problem, and that's the Ministry's issue. Because all of our responsibility to transfer, no, it's not our fault, we did our part of the job, and the directive that we're talking about today and we're passing this law by emergency procedure was passed last year I think 16 April last year. I am now asking myself whether it took so long for the ministry to prepare a draft proposal in accordance with this directive, to conduct a public debate, to give time within the Parliament's representatives time. Now that's another question when we speak in the part where the deputy minister said the parliamentary deputies could get involved in a public debate but I'm also asking whether the ministry with its professional people and with its crew could not have prepared this draft law long ago and referred it to the parliamentary procedure? Because it's been 10 months. So the question arises why such a haste today, should we, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, also introduce a super urgent procedure so that we have something like this in a hurry. I don't know, but I'm afraid we're making important laws like this and practically voting machines, and all of what's being said or somehow trying to make certain arguments to point out certain problems we don't have a chance to do. The law itself concerns insurance in the Republic of Croatia and what is said is about 25 companies operating in insurance, 1 is a reinsurance company, 40 companies are intermediated and more somewhere around 390 companies and crafts to represent insurance. It is also very important that those indicators that speak for insurance premiums and we have indications that in 2013 based on 2012 there was a slight increase in insurance premiums while in 2014, based on 2013 there was a certain decline of close to 6%. And it's working somewhere around 8.5 billion for 25 insurance companies. When it comes to non-life insurance, there is a certain decline based on 2014 and 2013, and the most represented type of insurance is motor vehicles with a premium of around 2 billion and 400 million kuna. And according to these indicators, he recorded a 18.3% drop, some say he's also 25% in that part. It is also about the competition of the insurance company which is clear, which is good in any case, for users of especially mandatory car insurance, so that they can make better and cheaper policies on the market. Now the question is what all these shelves contain and whether damages are done in a quality way. Because somewhere in the data, there's about a billion kuna of damage done by accidents in that mandatory insurance. When it comes to the life insurance group, then this data shows that there is a certain increase and a life insurance group. It is estimated that the increase is about 4% and the total premium of life insurance is 30.8% and the increase is and has a classic life insurance with a premium of 2 billion and 300 million kuna, which clearly gives us some indicators that people are still deciding on this part of the insurance. Now, when it comes to the directive, the directive also adopts some good things and we cannot talk about it as it is not acceptable to the end because there is more control but also certain consents to be given by the Croatian Financial Supervisory Agency. But that's where the question arises. What if the agency fails? Then there are certain problems because part of the data has to be delivered in time. It's about publishing the data, which is positive anyway. But there is also a positive definition of this part that is not related to the directive, and this part of the additional option for insurance companies at the technical inspection stations where the possibility of insurance from accidents is provided. In addition to insurance of road vehicles, there is insurance of goods in transport, liability insurance for use of motor vehicles, insurance of costs of legal protection and insurance of assistance and assistance which is, in any event, good for expanding that part of the insurance type. And I don't know, we're in a big part of the dilemma, especially when we're talking about insurance companies, and the way this law went in the process that we absolutely trust the biller, we're not going to do it as Croatian Labourists because we think we're responsible for the citizens we represent in the Croatian Parliament, and that's why we're going to be abstentioned in accordance with this law because this is exactly why we can't support him in this way because we're putting ourselves in a position to fully trust the promoter, and we don't think it's good when it comes to such serious laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102957	On behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102958	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate. We have before us the Insurance Act, which I will immediately highlight in the beginning the SDP club welcomes because it creates a new legal framework in the field of insurance and resecure in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I will also rely on the raised concerns about the correctness of the approach to consider this law in an emergency procedure. We at the SDP club want to emphasise that despite the very complex, demanding and abundant matter, it is justified to adopt an emergency procedure. In this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a Proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia has been working intensively and systematically for almost a year. The adoption of a proposal for this law includes the professional and interested public and the majority of the precise, demanding and clearer provisions of the new law stem from mandatory EU directives as seen through the P.Z.E. The mark. In view of the fact that the time limit for the transposition of Directives is 31 March 2015 and the application of the law itself on 1 January 2016 is certainly also a valid reason for the adoption of the law in an emergency procedure. Everyone, I think, almost all the colleagues who spoke today stressed the scope of this matter, stressed that this is about 464 articles of the new law, over 600 pages of text with proposals and remarks that were generally adopted in most of the professional public and actually from the interested public. I would also like to stress here something that seems rather difficult, at the beginning of this debate today, which is that the availability of this law is not from Friday when we put it into the procedure, namely at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on this law we discussed on Thursday morning, before that we received it through the club representatives, it was available, before that, from January to February, there was a public debate on the pages of the Ministry of Finance, and what is perhaps the most important thing here is to highlight just all the members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget that were present on Thursday gave support to this law. Let's get back to matter. The bill was drawn up as the Deputy Minister also said here to comply with the Directives and Directives, which complements the Directive's insolvency 2 and the Directive omnibus 2. The introduction of a European legislative, legislative basis in the Republic of Croatia created assumptions for the implementation of the delegated Regulation of the European Commission. Therefore, the law before us also defines the obligations of the insurance company or resecure in changing the technical standards of the European Insurance and Professional Insurance Supervisory Authority. The objectives and the Solvency Directive 2 are very clearly set and defined, which are precisely creating new, stronger rules and requirements, primarily for the adequateness of capital, the process of managing the risks of the insurance and reinsurance society, the risk-based control process and the manner of reporting and publication. The SDP club supports the introduction of the Solvency 2 objectives because we provide them with greater protection of insurance or insurance users and prevents disturbances in the insurance market in the Republic of Croatia, such as in the rest of the EU. If we look at the financial sector then it should be concluded that at the end of 2013, the situation clearly showed the share of business banks with almost 74%, compulsory pension funds with around 10 and insurance companies with only 6.5%. In addition, if we consider a situation on the insurance market as a basic analysis for the adoption of new provisions through the legislative initiative, it should be mentioned how 25 insurance companies currently operate in the Republic of Croatia, one reinsurance company. According to insurance groups, businesses, life insurance deals with about 6 companies, 9 companies carry out non-life insurance jobs and 10 societies deal in life insurance and not life insurance. In addition to insurance companies, as mentioned by his colleague Tušak, insurance companies are currently operating on the Croatian insurance market, both in insurance insurance and insurance services and in crafts, which carry out their insurance representation activities. I think we're all familiar with the fact that Croatia's insurance d.d. is the market leader of the gross premium charged in all categories of insurance in the Republic of Croatia. According to the HANFA's total of 26 companies, 12 are domestically owned while 14 are owned by foreign companies. The share of 25+1 means 26, the share of the total premium in the gross social product in 2013 was 2.78%, which is a mild recovery compared to 2012 but should also be mentioned those times that were before, since the economic crisis of global proportions has determined that the economy of the Republic of Croatia is also experiencing a crisis situation. The reduction in volume and changes in the structure charged total premiums in the Republic of Croatia have changed in recent years. The total culmination of the crisis occurred in 2009 and it was most felt in the category of life insurance and not life insurance under the pressure of the crisis that took hold of the Republic of Croatia. It was visible from comparison to 2008, comparing further other years in 2010 compared to 2009, 2011 compared to 2010, we recorded a constant decline until these moments when, according to data from the Croatian Insurance Office for December 2014, a total of 25 insurance companies noticed a 5.7% decline compared to the best-expressed year 2013. It is still important to mention that the number of employees in insurance companies is over 11.5 thousand and that this is a significant number of persons employed in the Republic of Croatia. And the Deputy Minister here mentioned what we are probably all fully aware of that in some way under quotes is a culture of insurance or some kind of personal responsibility towards ensuring our property is relatively low in the Republic of Croatia. But this is not surprising given the modest amount of income in our country that does not allow for more substantial issuing of funds to finance future needs. So when we determine our needs daily, we unfortunately put insurance into a different plan. Therefore, in the SDP club, we believe that all those measures and support made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the economic situation and to facilitate the lives of Croatian citizens will also yield results at the number and increase the number of insurance in the Republic of Croatia in the period ahead. The SDP club, as I said, supports the introduction of newspapers in the Insurance Act and the most important newspapers in the law are insurance and reinsurance business. In order for citizens and citizens who are following today's debate, it may be a little clearer to say that insurance operations are those that are concluded and meet non-life insurance contracts or that are the easiest way to say asset insurance and conclusion, i.e. they meet life insurance contracts. One and the other insurance jobs are concluded with natural or legal persons and are actually concerned with all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Non-life insurance business involves various insurance from accidents which indeed have a large number of our children in pre-school institutions and up to retirement age, then accidents in motor vehicles and similar insurance even in tourism that are very present today, health insurance, whether it is mandatory, whether supplementary, insurance of road vehicles, other powerful insurance that we are often forced to take in some financial institutions when taking different loans or some other monetary transactions at times when and when we actually guarantee that insurance. As the main purpose of providing the property, we can also indicate the damages resulting from the property. Unlike life insurance where life insurance is the subject of life insurance. And this very life is very difficult to assess, it carries its risks and has no real value. I refer to something that was said today at the beginning of this debate and was mentioned about gender equality. Every life has its own value and every life carries its risks and it is very difficult to put it under one line and underline and say that the risks are equal. It is these risk assessments that are something that is better defined by this new bill through various new methods and standards. Jobs of reassurance that our citizens may understand better refer to the form of external risk settlement or as the term itself says it is reinsurance or insurance. The resecuritisation operations are the conclusion and fulfilment of the resecuritisation contract, which transfers the surplus risk to the reinsurance company. The resecuritisation of the part of the liability leaves the relationship between the insurance undertaking and the insurance undertaking unchanged. The SDP Club also welcomes the new provision whereby insurance companies can carry out insurance and reinsurance activities without the need to set up a private business person for resecuritisation operations. Furthermore, we also give a positive assessment of the possibility that the parent company will be able to carry out resecuritisation operations for subsidiaries which will have a positive financial effect on the increase in income and inflows of additional cash. In reassurance, we have a vertical risk distribution and resecuritisation is the most widespread, fastest and most efficient way to divide the risk. The Insurance Act, which many colleagues have already talked about, actually offers both news and in the management system segment. These 464 articles make it very clear, precisely defined all the way and to the end, from the conditions that members of the administration, members of the supervisory board, persons representing companies should have. So we may not be so used to having such precise provisions in the law itself, but I repeat more than 50% of this law comes from the directives we take from European legislation while the rest is actually the fundamental law that we in the Republic of Croatia have already had before. The importance of this law and the definition of capital adequateness with, as I have already mentioned, much more complex and clearer calculations has been replaced by the existing system of regulation of capital adequateness, insolvency limits based on the rules and measures which determine the insolvency limit that must be met by resecuritisation companies, taking into account only the insurance risk. The calculation of the capital needed is a much more complex calculation and it is obtained in two ways, either through a standard formula or using a complete or partial internal model. It is important here for each insurance company in this law and its own risk and insolvency assessment and this further constitutes a regular practice of assessing the overall needs of the company itself. They open up with this law and new investment opportunities, which is also quite important to highlight, of course, the SDP club and the new provisions fully support. An important upgrade takes place in the surveillance segment, primarily the increased role of regulators, i.e. HANFA. Here, the deputy minister also stressed that it is a surveillance that is facing the future, which is based on risks. And what is all the time a certain basis and a process that goes through this law is to promote and preserve the stability of the financial system and monitor the legality of the business of the insurance sector, which we in the SDP club fully express and evaluate as a well-set goal of adopting this law. What is important to our citizens in their daily encounter with insurance is, in fact, an upgrade to the insurance representatives segment, when all of us who own motor vehicles find ourselves at the technical inspection station where we can get a lot more services under this law concerning road safety and the SDP club supports those provisions. As I can conclude, given that this law has a positive impact on the insurance companies by providing them with more protection, we will give full support at the SDP club for its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102959	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102960	Dear colleagues, Ivana Posavec Krivec, if I were to tell you now that you had a nice discussion, it would certainly have been interpreted maliciously, someone might have qualified it as masculineism or male chauvinism, so I won't. In the end, I'll just hang on to it. But I wouldn't be replicating you if you hadn't told me this law wasn't available on Friday but Thursday morning. (Laughter) Are you serious? Are you serious? Other than that, even on the side that we got in clubs on Friday, there's three of us at the club, there's gonna be a little more of us, but imagine, we should all... We need all agents to be equal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In order for us to read the laws, we need to get on time. If the European Parliament knows a year in advance of what will be the law, we are not asking for a year. However, there is one advantage, all opposition, most opposition laws are on the agenda for two years, so the government can, why, power is fair to these laws because it studies them, because it wants to study them in detail and it studies them for two years. And let's say the Law of Infractions against Public Order and Peace is 2.5 years old, it's government law. And now in the end, what you said from Thursday, and not Friday, that's really nice to me, too, but it's not male chauvinism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102961	Just before, because there's a law debated on the board Thursday. Ivana Posavec Krivec, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102962	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Sympathetic, unsympathetic, professional, unprofessional, uninterested, all of these are certain epithets, adjectives, facts that all of us here are able to speak for our speaker. But if we were to consider what is really the job of a parliamentary representative, if it wasn't exclusively a job here in the assembly waiting for what will be included on the agenda, then taking matter, discussing, already being interested in what is happening all the time, then we would know that this debate here has been prepared for more than a year because so much has been working on this law. We would know that we have followed when new European Union directives have been adopted that become our obligation. We would know that, here's precisely what I'm going to say, that's the documentation that we've all received, that's all available to us, a public debate under this law, a respected parliamentary representative, lasted from January 20th to February 3rd. That's a lot, long before last Thursday, last Wednesday or last Friday. It means that you wanted enough time to study all these provisions, consult the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Insurance Office and all other insurance houses that have made a series of remarks, over 300 pages of remarks are here. So it's all the work of a responsible parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102963	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102964	Thank you very much. So it was at the hearing of a colleague for 15 days this proposal legally, but this law was not but as you say Thursday morning, but I wouldn't want to talk about it. And that I got the materials Thursday morning I read the poor people... for one night, and I can't read this in a month as it says. You said there is no insurance culture in Croatia. Insurance culture, so you literally said that people are treating each other differently. Well, yes, and they refer differently to insurance in any form and there is one mistrust of citizens. Namely, if you know and have ever seen how much and how much payment is made and how long it waits when someone secures agricultural crops and how much they get at the end, what are the controls, what is.... Do you have any idea how any insurance fees are going in the first place? Well, it's a martini, it's a procedure. And in order for people to have any confidence in insurance companies at all if you have, it's not a problem to pay, it's in a moment they, they send you neat calls to pay, etc., but when you have to pay a premium for anything, or a harmful event or anything else then it's like this 400-page book. Never, never end. And then how do we even have a culture? It's actually about citizens' trust and mistrust. I think that the perception of citizens in terms of compulsory insurance is simply imposed and they consider it that way. And when you go to the car, then you get a technical checkup, then when she tells you how much insurance you're grinding her teeth and that's it. No one is happy to provide anything. So you think it's a non-culture insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102965	Thank you. Replication response, Ivana Posavec The Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102966	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I made it very clear about the pay phone under quotes from the insurance culture. So what I meant was that I explained a few sentences later saying that receiving Croatian citizens is unfortunately still very low in the Republic of Croatia and that it is often difficult in such situations to think about providing property for the future. People survive from month to month and worry about the monthly needs they have in their family. And only those who are forced, and that's what statistics show most often take different insurance. Whether it's apartment insurance, a house for mortgage loans or something like that, life insurance as insurance policies again for some loans. So this is what I was saying that citizens in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, still do not have such a culture as other citizens who are from far stronger economic countries and who can afford insurance to stay and worry about the future with them. When you asked me a question, for example, about insurance in the agricultural sector, on crop insurance, etc. If a very good colleague I know what this is about, because for four years as a municipal chief, I've worked hard with farmers to develop this particular insurance culture, to make people feel that what they survive and feed their family has to provide additionally. We have also concluded some other measures, and these were the encouraging measures of local self-government units, and I repeat all of this is coming from us how we will promote and how much we will advocate that insurance is a good form and a good form of protection for Croatian citizens. In this segment, this new law also provides certain improvements, improvements in consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102967	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102968	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I also noticed these allegations by your colleagues where you said that this law, if I remembered correctly, would contribute to the standard, better standard of citizens and quality of life, although what in the best way might be said to be as full of life as that slogan of tourism says. And that's for me, that's good, let's say good, but I'm asking myself this question now that you're talking about both farmers and those we have to worry about. All right, come on, how do you say well now that they're insured anyway, but from what? What do I ask you nice of when so many have failed, when 70% of the OPG is blocked, when they barely make ends meet, of what? And now that he's here, and if he's secure, if this fine-tuning rhetoric like this animates him to come in and secure now that there's a charge, then the problem is this kind of and that kind of thing. Then there are various risks, so you did not stick to this, that and everything and what your colleague Grubisic was saying. Well, charging is a hell of a problem when there's any damage. But the other thing, I was particularly stuck in the ear when you said that you would support this law in the fullest sense, completely full sense. Well, I'm not as clear as you are a party representative who's asking for 40% of women's deputies here in this House of Commons, and Article 8 says that the insurance company can in some way challenge and question what the Legislator's Committee is. The legislation argues that it simply collapses, violates the Law on Gender Equality. It is not clear to me how you can support such things in full terms without talking about this part that farmers are simply not in an equal position, nor can they be provided, nor can they pay, and are simply on the extremity. These are unacceptable things to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102969	Ivana Posavec Krivec, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102970	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I have not said at any time that under this law the situation in the Croatian economy will be better. I didn't say that. It may have sounded that way to you, but I did not say so, but I said that when the economic situation in Croatia improves, it will be easier and easier for citizens to get into a situation to make insurance and to ensure their property, their life and all that is possible for the future and for a better life to come. Today you have a lot of examples where insurance companies offer various tools that you can provide from permanent sick leave, where you can ensure that you lose your job, where you can provide for various accidents. So, the beauty of possible insurance measures on the market today is very wide. We'd all probably like to have our family and our property for ourselves, just the question of how much we can do at this point. In time, how we will recover economically will surely be able to respond better to all these offers. On the other hand, since 2008, I've taken indicators. Why? Because in 2008, it's the year of the crisis. As of that year, watch a colleague of how many companies, crafts, OPGs, agricultural economies have fallen since that year. Don't look at it since the end of 2011 or the beginning of 2012 since we have this government's mandate. But look also at the measures this government has done to help both these craftsmen and these entrepreneurs and the OPGs and companies and persons, natural persons. Look what the government of the Republic of Croatia did after a catastrophic flood last year, and you heard that the deputy minister here said that almost no one had secured property. And about gender equality based on insurance, I really think it's funny to talk about here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102971	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleagues Boro Grubisic and Krešimir Bubalo will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102972	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with the assistant. That a hundred times this bill is marked "E", "EE" we won't accept it at the HDSSB club. And what my colleague Posavec said just before that the state did, that she gave 20 kuna to Mr. Tomic and the others. I can also name those who received 20 kuna damages for last year's floods. So pay 20 kuna, and you can't buy two kilos, three seeds for sowing, let alone the damage caused by the floods in Slavonia. Well, that's ridiculous! But it's not about that. It's about the insurance. Each one of us when he enters the insurance company's house, in the building where she operates, has the perception of a single center of power. It's like entering any bank in the Republic of Croatia, so it's awe that causes it. Why is that? Why insurance houses support very often something else they don't deal with, e.g. implement humanitarian and support humanitarian action, which is positive, which is fine. However, some associations and football clubs in large amounts and even political parties or some politicians also support. Well, because the problem of the Fiscal Responsibility Act is for these institutions, but also for the fiscal register. If this were to be introduced, it would probably be different to the business of these institutions. Why is this material, in this proposal of the Insurance Act, stated in this proposal by the law, to p. 2. A new regulatory framework for the insurance industry is established. Why is this called the insurance industry? Is it because it employs 11.5 thousand employees, perhaps more than in our metal industry in the Republic of Croatia? Is this really the industry? Or it's to provide some services that have nothing to do with such a notion of industry. Similarly, we have a banking or banking industry that many of our laws also talk about, and then here we can talk about, given that many banks are the owners of insurance houses, essentially, about the banking and security team in the Republic of Croatia or in those institutions that we see here, and with their encouragement we get this law on the constituency benches. If anyone has raised from us, and I believe that many, are a housing loan to buy an apartment, then you have been recommended in the bank to secure that apartment precisely at that insurance house or to tie your credit to the mandatory life insurance of your own at that particular one, I will not talk about names, insurance houses. Someone said here before me that it's such a tied-up shop that it's illegal. However, it is no longer just a few examples, it has become a rule. And that's what you should say, you shouldn't keep your mouth shut about it. When you take out a loan, they condition you either have to secure that apartment or take life insurance at that insurance house. Furthermore, Germany is not far from us, nor is this Europe about which it writes. You tell us how much insurance is in Germany cars? A little over 100 euros. Is there any insurance company that provides a car for 800 kuna? There isn't. So, if we're already passing laws like this, how important is the technical examination in Germany? Two years. They've been saying about the new car for five years. Every year you have to go to a technical checkup and pay for it clearly. And how much is it paid in Germany, and how much is it with us? So we have more than European prices of insurance services, and what are our incomes, salaries and what is the situation of the Croatian nation in terms of income and poverty and perceptions of poverty. That's amazing! And now, for that fat chick or goose, we're lurking her neck and we're making regulations where all the people like my colleague said are going to get this law in the future, the insurance culture. What will you be sure of? Who's going to provide who in this situation at all? Why is there... , so you see before and now insurance companies have charged car insurance more expensive than in Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Germany is the reverse sequence, when you have a new car then your insurance is cheaper than when you have a 10-year-old car because that car is a driving risk and then insurance costs more. It's all the other way around. You have a bonus of 5 or 10% until you get to 50%, I don't know how much, it's been changing now not to go in. 5%, right? Well, then for 10 years, you have to pay the same insurance guy to have a bonus of about 50%. And that's the maximum you can get. Or make a commitment to pay insurance with the same insurance company in order to get 15% down to you immediately. The fact that 12 domestic, 13 foreign insurance companies, which is 8.5 billion kuna, is almost 8% of the Croatian State budget, 8 billion kuna. That's where the big money spins. And where there's big money there can be a lot of other things. Besides, I don't know if this kind of material, I haven't been able to see how many insurance companies are going through their lawyers on purpose or their legal services disputes? So now I have a man who phoned me just now and says that since '96. the years with one insurance can't solve the damages. Since '96. Year! year! year! year! year! His complaint, then his complaint, and his legal service, and then one expert, and another, and so forth. Since '96 a man who's had a hard time, I've treated him at the Ship's Hospital, a serious car accident, and he can't be charged at all. Because there are certain rules, certain legal regulations where this may take place indefinitely. And here he has filed a request to the European Court of Human Rights for damages to the trial within a reasonable period of time. Since he's a colleague of the Bubalo, I'd say more, and I'll say that in replicas, and I'll leave my colleague, Bubalo, these seven minutes, to him to say, because it's going to be very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102973	Thank you very much, fellow Bora. In fact, here we have shared a debate because there are a lot of these articles, the material is comprehensive, 464 articles, so here are a few articles just to warn us from the HDSSB club, first of all Article 2 of the EC directive, but here we seem to be in the club that the directives of some big players who want some changes on the Croatian market as well as on other markets. But looking at Article 7 of the insurance business is certain to be indicated, but we can see that insurance is also being dealt with more and more recently with the properties that exist on the market, not only by mastering, buying, but also by playing with these very properties. What is evident on the Croatian market even though the Law on Payments has changed, Insurance of Claims and Payments is precisely in a segment that does not work in the Republic of Croatia, more and more policies and entrepreneurs who decide to direct their policies to the collection of claims and try to protect what cannot be protected, and it is evident that the state and also companies owned by the state do not pay. Article 50 of the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board, so everything that is prescribed, I think, is insufficient because it is evident where the administrations did while the SDP was in power, the SDP's people, and when HDZ's people were mismanaged by individual systems and we see when a private owner or someone who was elected in the competition to immediately get these companies, these insurance companies jump their profits and suddenly start to operate effectively. In view of Article 303 of the Solvency of the Group, it is certain that the insolvency of the HANFA group cannot be verified, nor does the National Bank verify that the insolvency of the group of individual banks owned by our banking sector is also the property of the insurance companies. I'd like to hear that HANFA was checking the group's insolvency. Article 437 violations, so I'd like to hear how many violations there have been so far when we're talking about black shelves, when we're talking about giving bonuses that don't belong to bonuses, who's been reported and how many applications have been made so far and by the old law. But surely this law and these changes open up a lot. My colleague Boro mentioned the story of lawyers who have the task of just pulling off payments, because it is the policies of certain insurance houses that clearly indicate that they are not interested in paying off what belongs to our citizens or businesses, but rather in dissuasion and precisely to limit that deadline for the collection of our citizens' claims, then it would be seen that this law is in the interests of citizens and not insurance companies. But we also all know when we come to the insurance company, when we want to get a policy that has a stamp on it, and also that cash is safe and then it's a question at the HDSSB club, so why is there no fiscal register in a business that twists 8 billion and 560 million in Croatia annually? Well, the answer is clear, so probably some houses finance certain political parties that damage such a way of doing business, and we all know that on the Croatian market part of the policies, part of me would say and the bonus is paid out of these funds. Well, that's a question we should ask ourselves in the Croatian Parliament. And when we mention this industry, not only the insurance industry but other industries in the fiscal financial sector, then surely the first question, so why is there no fiscal cash register? Looking at what was abolished a few years ago, which is to stimulate the very life insurance that has been stimulated for years and through corrosive tax reliefs, the possibility of helping people in this way is abolished and that, through tax application, it is possible that some of the income can be justified through the very shelves. This would also encourage the part of life insurance in the Croatian market itself. Looking at the stress tests of Croatian insurance companies it is evident that there are risks, that there are risks that do not decrease with these changes and these legal solutions. Therefore, when we look at society administrations, and supervisory committees looking at stress tests, we certainly have to do a lot to reduce the risk in the business of insurance companies, especially because the good part is owned by foreign companies. Looking at the war we had on the ground, which was a war for the cells for the technical examination, so I would certainly like to hear today how much of the insurance companies have mastered with the technical inspection stations, because there we had on the ground a war chest war on the chest precisely for the technical inspection stations, because anyone who comes to the technical inspection station sure to pay us the insurance policy of the car itself, but also the helmet. What my colleague Maric said earlier in the debate, which is what we have also opened up in Parliament not only the gender risk, but the risk that is defined by cities, and therefore we often have the situation and that Leasing houses but also insurance companies prefer certain units of local administration and this DA registration, turns out to have more to do with that car registration than it has a place of residence. So that's where the illogicalness is seen, it shows that the legislation has to be changed, and it's just causing damage to some units of local administration, stronger units of local administration that have larger risk premiums. This law is from Friday to Friday, I'm just afraid we should go over it again because this law does not go to the citizens, nor does it go to those who should go, but it goes to those who ordered this law. Therefore, the HDSSB club cannot support this law because it is contrary to the needs of the market, contrary to our expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102974	At the presentation of counterpart Grubisic, replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102975	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic is an example of that gentleman who received 20 kunas in compensation for the damage, and I think you have well illustrated how it works in practice. And probably when this gentleman made a deal, when he went to make a deal, then he must have been promised a number of opportunities anyway, and finally here we see what the result is. And it is undeniable to also say that there is awareness of the need for insurance, there is that culture and people's desire to be insured, especially by our farmers. Because when he loses one crop, we know it, and I'm the same unit leader local, when he loses one crop he's lost for that year, for the next few years. But there isn't. And what's he doing under these circumstances? He's talking to a local self-government unit. Help. But of course now the problem is second and the possibility of local self-government units is getting smaller. Less and less, how? Because it's simple, the revenues are reduced, the increasing number of commitments and the problems are great. So first, it's hard to secure, and the final result is what you said, and we question ourselves. But you see that industry also offers other numerous packages as it says, and the industry is called, packages of these insurances, even those we know well from the professional responsibility of doctors where they work. And finally when there are such difficulties, of course the lawyers have already, who specialize in this area, and then, of course, they also hit that part. So these are all the things that need to be warned in this place and certainly there are a lot of problems in the operation and implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102976	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102977	Thank you very much. My colleague, it's not just a matter of compensation for crops that were affected by the floods. If many 20 kunas had come, some even less, 4, 5 kunas had come, and then they had to pay for the ticket to Slavonski boat bus station to come pick it up. You have examples of car insurance. So a man waits for repairs because he has nothing to fix his car with until his insurance pays off. And they're waiting, two, three, I don't know either, it's a great procedure to determine the damage and finally make the payment. And then when you're paying, so or, for example, life, if you don't pay it within 15 days when it's due they say they'll cut the insurance. They don't tolerate that you may not have the money right now or the opportunity to postpone it. So they're going to break up your life insurance and if the 16th day of the accident happens, they're going to say turkey dots don't apply anymore, even though for 20 years maybe you've been paying or 15 years, that's terrible. Therefore, under the same conditions, if conditioned to the purchaser of insurance is then, under the same conditions, that the damage should also be effected within 15 days or at a tightened interest, it may, but with a legally tightened interest. And there is no such thing in this law, nor in the former laws. So on equal terms. Children pay at school 20 kuna a year and it's paid by parents, not the Ministry of Education, parents pay. And when, for example, Someone broke their thumb in gym class at school, you know how much they get? 100 kuna gets a baby, that's what the license plate says. Well, that's terrible. And of the children who have 600,000 in Croatia in primary schools they earn, insurance houses 12 million kuna. So of the healthiest to say the population that is in the Republic of Croatia, 12 million kunas a year. Well, eight years of a kid going to school, that's 96 million kuna. About 100 million kuna and we know what they're like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102978	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102979	Thank you very much. Your colleague Grubisic spoke about the need for a culture of insurance. Well, that culture is being cared for by the legislator because it also imposes these blackmailers, therefore, it is already at a sufficient level because we are forced to provide. But what we need most is a culture of payout damage. What about that culture? How do you build her? And she's getting worse and worse. This law does not identify the underlying difficulties in the field of insurance. What affects the insurance premium? It affects the risk zone, which is absurd over the absurds. Who assessed that in Sibenik compared to Zagreb, that Zagreb is 60% more dangerous, that it is a risk zone where 60% is more dangerous for collisions and damages than in Sibenik. Who made it up, and what is it based on? Policy average in Sibenik 1000 kuna, Zagreb 1600 kuna. I can only say for God's sake. What does it do next? The power of the owner's vehicle is influencing. When he buys a 60-year-old owner, an experienced driver, gets a discount on an angry car and gives it to a son who drives furiously and does damages, then pays at a cheap rate. It's important who drives the vehicle, not the owner of the vehicle, that's out of the question. Third, force of the vehicle, or age. Well, in one case, age is an advantage and another is a lack. When an elderly person, the question is, at what age older or worse drives or drives better, at one age better, at another age a little and worse. And most importantly, the fee for using roads has not been collected once in recent years and years, and everything relating to insurance companies has been collected. And those insurance companies who are insured or are reduced by 5, 6 times their salary if they were lucky or fired so they have nothing to pay from and it only collects. This law doesn't see it at all, it doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102980	Thank you. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102981	Thank you very much. Comrade Marić, perhaps you know and here I will ask you a question and then I will answer, in which city in Croatia is the most registered vehicle and given the number of inhabitants? Daruvar. We all see on the highways, they're all from Daruvar. That's amazing. Yes, the risk is said to be the smallest in Daruvar, so it is the least, but you also have Daruvar from Ilock to Zapresic. That's amazing. So I'm taking what you said. Furthermore, and Slatina, says to me Chešek and in Slatina it is good to register. When I broke my hip and asked for a leg for an inch longer than the other one, there are certain movements, etc., I can't perform, then the insurance house offered me one 20% and the other 10%. So I told this other one, which is 10% that the other offered me 20% because I'm paying two insurances, so it was then, now I only have one, then they said we're going to give you 15, they started guessing with my disability, my illness, that with the hip. But don't tell us to sue if you get hip braces. And that was a prerequisite. So I'm, we're texting, and in the end, let's get something out, and I'm not done. So, what you're saying is that this one volunteerism actually, starting with the Supervisory Board, the board of directors or councils, I don't know how exactly, the administrations actually, and in damages the payments, especially in the cost of the damage. Well, there's one thing they can do, if they can't defile the insurance company. That's the most custodian they've got, and that's the law they'd have to stop. I'd have to stop it, but I don't think I see a lot of articles about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102982	Thank you, too. Replica, Drazen Djurovic, at the exhibition of colleagues of Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102983	Thank you. You, as well as Grubisic, spoke about bank bonding, many of which are actually owners of insurance companies, and in fact in one respect that was established quite often at the expense of consumers. We have examples of residential loans where the bank naturally transfers all the burden to the creditor, not only the burden of the currency clause and transfers, takes the mortgage and takes the exchange rate, so it sits on the salary, so it puts the collaterals, guarantees and then that property you put on the mortgage makes you pay and insurance policy for that property. But apparently that so-called. The industry isn't enough of these shelves anymore, so the last few years have added to these collaterals, for example, the policy not only of real estate but also of your life, and then you have to pay the bank for the life insurance policy, and now as the recession started, they've added insurance policies so you don't lose your job. So you're in a situation where you're raising a housing loan, you're solving your problem that you have to add three shelves as collateral, one real estate insurance, one life and a third policy that you won't be out of a job. And as a state, we do not find any answer systematically to protect, for example, these credit users, but in fact we are putting them into the buds of these institutions that no longer know what they would have invented and in what way they would have actually provided everything, and in fact they pressured Croatian citizens to actually be in as many of them as possible, I will say the free victims of various credit arrangements that are usually as good as you said they were just paying the premium.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102984	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102985	Thank you very much. Well, here's a good fellow you've been reacting because you can't change a contract to work unilaterally or in an article that applies to real estate insurance, so you say life, work, and probably children who need to pay for that loan or something like that. But apparently in the Croatian market and in this HANFA does not do its part of the job, it is precisely that we talk about the insolvency of the group, and here in Article 303 it is mentioned that there will be a control of the insolvency of the group but there is no control of the commitment and what is said must be between insurance and banks, which is that you must ensure in that and that house that is connected right through the group, through equity, and that is what is harmful to our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102986	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102987	According to the applicable Insurance Act, the conditions for the establishment and operation of insurance companies and resecuritisation companies, the internal audit of these companies, the liquidation and bankruptcy procedure, the powers of the supervisory authority and the supervision of the protection of consumers of the Croatian Insurance Office, as well as the association of insurance undertakings are regulated. The insurance market in the Republic of Croatia has as many as 25 insurance companies and only one reinsurance company, 41 media companies and more than 390 insurance companies. And within the meaning of this law, the insurance company is a legal person established in the Republic of Croatia who performs life insurance or non-life insurance activities, who has the approval of the insurance agency and is registered in the court register of the competent commercial court. The insurance operations referred to in Article 7 of the Law include the conclusion and fulfillment of non-life insurance contracts, life insurance contracts, except mandatory health, compulsory pension insurance and compulsory social insurance. Since the beginning of the general crisis in Croatia, the decline in the overall premium of the Croatian insurance market after a series of good years and two-digit growth rates prior to the crisis has finally been suspended in 2013. In 2013, total insurance premiums rose by 0.4% compared to 2012 indicating a positive trend. However, in December 2014, non-life insurance records a large number of cases that account for 69% of total premiums where the gross premium amounted to nearly 6 billion kuna. The most represented type of insurance is continued liability insurance for the use of motor vehicles with a charged gross premium of €2.4 billion but is down 18% compared to December 2013. Life insurance in gross premiums amounts to 2.6 billion kuna, notes a continuous increase, and participates with 30% in the total premium. The largest share has classic life insurance with a 2.3 billion premium or even 88% in the life insurance group. This proposal provides for assumptions for a new regulatory framework for the insurance industry with novelties of a higher level of consumer protection, greater transparency of business, and the way society manages and efficiency in risk management. The risk-based approach strengthens the supervision of insurance companies and aims to control the risks of the insurance company, assess financial vulnerability and identify potential deficiencies in the insurance companies' business. The objective of the transposition of the EU Directive is to lay down stronger rules of business and introduce changes in risk management, improve the rules on asset valuation and obligations, provide for sanctions for poor governance, introduce new ways of reporting and public publication, leading to better protection of insurance or insurance users. The insurance company is obliged to produce and publish the Solvency and Financial Status Report every year as well as to report regularly to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. So far, insurance companies in the technical inspection stations could only carry out accident insurance and liability insurance for the use of motor vehicles. They will now be able to carry out road insurance, transport goods insurance, legal protection and assistance or assistance insurance. Life insurance is interesting. At a time of working age, employees do not even think about the time when they will retire, what they will be, whether they will be able to live on it. This time of the multi-annual crisis is increasingly affecting the fact that there is little thinking about the time that will eventually come, and the financial expertise is one of the possibilities of saving, of course, if it can be proposed for the age in life insurance and life insurance. It is evident from the assessment of the situation that our life-saving citizens are mostly taking classical life insurance, and there are other species besides it. Life insurance in case of experience, life insurance in case of death, is a popular especially mixed life insurance in case of death and experience, insurance of critical diseases and life insurance. In addition, there is also an insurance with periodic payments over a certain period of time or life according to the choice of insurance undertakings as well as additional life insurance that are contracted in life insurance and cover various risks. From injuries including incompetence to work, from death, due to accidents and disability due to accidents or diseases. In accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on The insurance company which simultaneously performs life insurance and non-life insurance activities is obliged to manage life insurance and separate non-life insurance operations separately, where the interests of non-life insurance contractors and the interests of life insurance contractors which may be entitled to profit from the insurance contract must not be questioned. According to Articles 159 to 161 which are in line with the articles of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the insurance company is obliged to have all the assets, and in particular to cover the minimum necessary capital of the investment in a way that ensures the safety, quality, liquidity and profitability of the portfolio as a whole. It is also due to the property to cover technical provisions to be invested in a way that is suitable for the nature and duration of compulsory insurance and reinsurance obligations and in the best interests of insurance and insurance contractors. In order to protect the insurance user pursuant to Articles 380 to 382 of the Insurance Company, it is necessary to provide written information and insurance information prior to the conclusion of the insurance contract by mail and e-mail. The company is also obliged to notify the insurance contractor of any changes to the contract during the duration of the insurance contract. This is particularly important in the case of a life insurance contract where the insurance user is life-threateningly interested in the cost of its multi-annual savings and participation in potential profits. In view of the overall business of the insurance company, the obligation to keep statistics on business, risks, security cases and damages has been prescribed and Articles 204 to 211 has also been subject to supervision of insurance companies. In view of the importance of the insurance activity, this bill has many, even 464 articles. It was difficult in this short time to study it in detail and find and make any comments but likely to prove themselves in practice and its application. The most important thing is for citizens as users of insurance companies' services to receive a quality service, I mean the damage suffered by contracts, that the risk of their investment be minimal without negative consequences for all citizens' insurance companies. The club of HSU representatives will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102988	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this proposal for a Insurance Act with a final draft of the law. And right away, I'm going to say that even though I'm speaking on behalf of the club, I'm going to make an amendment to the article, or I've already handed it over to Article 8. The final draft law and paragraph 1 shall be amended and read as follows: "The insurance company shall not, when entering into a new insurance contract, take into account the personal circumstances of the sexes in the calculation of premiums and the determination of the amounts secured. And of course after that, an exceptional insurance company may take into account, in the case of a group-based insurance contract, but this is a group insurance when corporations are, when they are companies, but what is crucial is that the calculation of the premiums should not take into account the personal circumstances of the sexes. When we talk about insurance, especially insurance companies, we have already heard the introduction from the deputy minister, but of course it should be stressed that at this point it is about 25 insurance companies, not talking about one reinsurance company, 41 insurance and reinsurance brokerage companies and more than 390 insurance companies and crafts. But of course the key and focus is primarily on 25 insurance companies that had 5.7% less gross premiums in 2014 than in 2013 when it was $9.1 billion. That is why it is clear how important and important it is for the adoption of this law that the legality and stability that HANFA and under this law and under all those obligations it has under other laws is essential and essential. What is certainly important and I believe that this law will allow, which is that in a group of life insurance and non-life insurance, the share increases significantly or is below the EU average. Of course, when we talk about this law, it is clear that 15 insurance companies owned directly by non-residents, that the premium share for 15 companies owned directly by non-residents on 31 December 2013, was 43% while the remaining 12 companies owned by residents represented their share of 56%. The concentration of the insurance portfolio according to the total gross premium charged in 5 largest insurance companies increased from 64.3% in 2012 to 65.6% in 2013, while at the same time in the observed period the concentration of the insurance portfolio from the 10 largest insurance companies increased to 83%, which we see as a fairly high concentration to 5 companies. And of course, the part that was related to total non-life insurance in 2013 was 72% of those totaling 9 billion gross premiums and the total life insurance of 27.97%. Of which, the largest share has liability insurance for the use of motor vehicles as well as life insurance 24 and 25%, respectively. Surely this law cannot cover those segments that are important in the implementation of this law and the problems that arise, especially in motor vehicle insurance, where we have safe between 10 and 12 thousand different lawsuits burdening the judiciary. And something to think about, the Ministry of Justice, not the Ministry of Finance, but in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, which is that in a different way, you solve bagatella lawsuits, bagatella disputes in the insurance of motor vehicles. Because on the one hand, they would relieve the judiciary, our courts, and on the other hand they would simplify the processes and speed up the processes and certainly make it easier to solve it together. What is crucial is not only in favour, because it will be decided in favour of that insurance company or a particular person or legal or physical insurance company, but it is essential that they are essentially reduced costs in all these procedures. And that's certainly the interest of all of us here together. The law, while we're already in the introduction, I said to whom everything and how much it applies, brings one step anyway. All the laws we partially comply with EU directives are raising one standard, raising one level of quality and quantity. Surely one of the important things, which is when we talked about both residents and when we talk about non-residents, we talk about owners, is a space where they are now with this law much easier than companies that work in Croatia, they are registered, they have the possibility and space to expand further in the region. For both non-residents and residents, this possibility of carrying out resecuritisation operations in any case opens this significant space not only for the sake of the Republic of Croatia's budget but also for the growth of the economy and this extremely important activity. In the introduction, we heard the same from the Deputy Minister for Consumer Protection. That's one of our priorities. Not only in the EU, protecting citizens from any problems that can arise when they negotiate with anyone, in this case with insurance companies. Obligations within 15 days or HANFA within 30 days to react, to respond. This protection of consumers raises to the level needed, and that means that the answers are given very, very quickly, almost immediately, I would say. HANFA, quantitative control of HANFA, greater levels of risk to monitor, identify, control the risks of insurance of market share lending, operational concentration, is one of the exceptional roles of HANFA in which this HANFA law gives additional obligations and responsibilities and our mission to when we receive the HANFA report to be very analytical, very pedantic so that we can know as much as possible whether it is right enough, whether it is good enough and whether of course HANFA has the capacity. I personally believe that HANFA has the capacity to do this job that the new law additionally gives, but that is all for us for the stability of this system, for the works of the financial system and for the protection of consumers. With this law, we raise this level of growth and development of insurance companies primarily, and on the other hand, consumer protection. And I repeat once again, the HNS club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102990	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102991	Thank you very much. Col. Gjurkovic, you will not be the only one to submit an amendment to Article 8, so in connection with obvious discrimination against sex, so in insurance, although this article 8 states that by 1 July 2013, discrimination is already in force, it has already been established in insurance houses and contracts. So it's not clear to me that here's your Kukuriku coalition in political life, of course, and we, too, advocate for the more gender-equal relationship at least in that gender-related area, there are other forms of discrimination not only towards sex, that this law and so far has been in force and here you are now proposing something that Mrs Kosor has proposed by her amendment and a series of other representatives and clubs to her amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102992	Thank you, too. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102993	Dear colleague, I am therefore pleased that we all agree on this and that here with the amendments will probably be clearly and explicitly written not to take into account the personal circumstances of the sex except of course the exceptions. And when we talk about certain contracts that have already been made, which becomes unretroactive, it is quite clear and we are working here and we are working hard not to do laws that are retroactive and most often these laws that may be, insurance contracts that included a certain gender inequality are contracts that have been created in the 1990s by different laws. Therefore, the retroactiveness of the law cannot, such things change the aware facts of all together that it is not good, but we must respect both the rule of law and the legality and signed contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102994	Thank you. Goran Maric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102995	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, it is good that you have responded with this amendment but, as his colleague Grubisic said, he has had discrimination in action and it continues. It is not a retroactive action if we prevent something in the future, that it cannot act in the future, and you say discrimination will be removed, and the contracts will remain in force and those in the future that were concluded before 1 July 2013. It cannot be retroactive that such contracts should not apply after the adoption of the law, in relation to what has been adopted so far. Tell me, please, is it for you, when you react with amendments, that the amendment reacts and that, given your cash business, a fiscal bill for insurance companies must be issued? You're not up for it or you are? If it is, I am, but I can't change it because the amendment can't apply to a text that doesn't exist. It means that someone cares so much in the interest and that the law has made it mandatory for insurance companies to issue a fiscal account then it would also force the Cash Business Act to change that law. And like this, and so many times we've done it, are you for the prescribed minimum conditions for board members and supervisory committees, are you to prescribe that such an important institution cannot, that a high professional provision of economic or legal direction is minimumly necessary? I think it would be desirable, but not to be someone who's been educated for something else and doesn't have a high level of expertise, being the director of an insurance company and not being able to be the one who's been trained for it because this is what we're making it impossible for him if he hasn't had experience in an insurance company, but I said he can also teach that class at college.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102996	Time fellow Maric. Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102997	Thank you very much, Vice President. So there's a lot of questions. So we can't do retroactively without certain agreements of laws that we're repealing because we all know that. If there's anything else to simplify the fall in the Constitutional Court, it's number one. We are all aware and therefore we are making an effort to ensure that all other contracts that are free of any sexual discrimination. And that's the key thing. When we talk about the fiscal register, I have to admit that the fiscal registers can't go into this law, it's tied to other laws, and we support all the gatherings, and we want it to be controlled and cash on these insurance companies as well. When we talk about administrations, considering, here I am also reading statistics where we talk about how many non-residents or residents as the owner of insurance companies, as the bearer of these, bearers are essentially the largest companies to which these laws and laws apply. We have a situation for sure that no one will choose unskilled people to run insurance companies. There are also opportunities and there is practice, not only in us, that people who work long in insurance houses have enough experience in practice to naturally participate. But of course it depends on the owner. Since all insurance houses are private, owners know best who and how and we don't have to limit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102998	Thank you. And the Gordana Sobol replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u102999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, therefore, regarding your amendment to Article 8 of this bill, I hope that the motionary will also consider yours, whether it will be just as you have been indicated here or will further edit it. For one reason, then, because it seems to me that what is written in Article 8 and when we look at the reasoning of this article 8 is essentially a disagreement. So how, when you read the explanation of this article, you have one thing and when you read the article itself, at least at first glance it turns out to be something else. What I may have been thinking, all of you who were talking about this problem was understated and this is that so far, so in Croatia is actually the prevailing factor in determining the premiums of life insurance, pension insurance, insurance from the diseases of some other types of insurance essentially sex was prevailing. This is now the inauguration of so-called. a unisex insurance policy, where the insurance company should not, therefore, determine the gender premiums. And what should also be said is that by introducing a unisex premium when you e.g. working on life insurance means that men's premiums are actually going to fall and women are going to grow. So when we talk about gender equality issues. And some colleagues, and I think that my colleague Kosor has made a proposal to completely delete this amendment, in fact, it's a misunderstanding at all what in the case of insurance premiums even gender equality means. So I personally support your amendment in terms of clarifying what the European Union directives themselves are adopting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103000	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103001	Thank you, colleague. So my amendment just explains because often we don't know how to read what it says even though we're doing this job because legal things are a little bit unreasonable for a layman if they're not a lawyer. So this amendment clearly defines gender equality. So two people, male and female, same age, have the same premium. And that's the key. With this, basically that's how we define it because that's how we can't write in the law, so with this amendment we say we're all the same point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103002	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, Davorin Mlakar, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And finally, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a very short, I had one longer intervention, after the second or third club, so I think a good part of the clarification about this debate, actually around the road that I thought wasn't best to talk about this law. In fact, I said this introductively and repeated in a series of replicas that we are therefore aware as proposing that this law is not easy, it is not easy to read, it is not easily digestible, just for the professional public, the amount of 464 articles themselves speaks enough of it. But on the other hand, I think it's been crystallized in the debate and in a series of these last clubs that it's actually representatives, and clearly, regardless of the magnitude that it's been working on transposing, so these two directives from the European Union and that we're practically the biggest part of this law and it's related to enhanced supervision of the insurance of these companies, actually the supervision of the business of insurance companies, the reassurance and that we're actually in line with the need to live in the common market. What is what we have a series of amendments about, therefore, regarding Article 8 and the demand and assurance of equality, I can only take a second to take a pill, I apologize, Mr. Vice President, since there is no Mr. Mlakar, so I didn't want to see this part. Namely, I wanted to show you what led us to draw up this article 8th we have a whole series of amendments from Mrs Kosor, from Mr Gjurkovic, from the Legislative Committee, we have both debates and on the Legislative Committee, so here we are doing final alignments, ironing each point about this article. So we are ready to explain it better even though we thought in the beginning, and it is, and it is, and that is why I went to get this help, so also in our proposal for Article 8(1), Article 5(1) is transposed. Directive 2004/113 of the European Commission as well as guidelines for the application of Directive 2004/113 to insurance and, in the world, the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in case C 236/09. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I say, we are also working here, we have one specific proposal for an additional clarification of this Article. A series of valuable suggestions came from you, and we'll coordinate something. The result of all will be that the equality of men and women in the final solution will be ensured and that we will therefore avoid any dilemma. Tomorrow is the government, so we'll accept one of those amendments anyway, fix it, and I believe the intensity, I don't believe, but I'm sure the intensity will be accepted. There have been so far, there have been many debates in general on insurance, there have been discussions that have not been related to this law, and here in these last replicas more than with other laws, the Law on Mandatory Insurance, the Law on Fiscalization, etc. We have listened, recorded all your proposals and I believe that there have been a number of constructive discussions and that we will certainly consider them in the construction of some future legal solutions that I say you can expect soon before you. With one sentence of this law, and it was nicely said by fellow Gjurkovic in his debate, is a step towards the transparency of business, towards greater efficiency of insurance companies, primary management of their risks, and all I am saying is a step forward and a step forward for greater insurance protection, greater protection of insurance users, to prevent any disturbances in the insurance market and to build long-term stability of the insurance sector, as well as the entire financial sector as a whole. This segment is very important therefore for financial stability, I said today, it is not burning again, for the financial stability that we all often take together as a givenness but it is not a givenness and it is very important to build institutions, quality supervisory institutions and enable them to do so. And the CNB as it does with banks, it is important that the HANFA also has powers in this respect, but also responsibility to act on behalf of all of us as well as possible better supervision and business of these companies in insurance and reinsurance. And once again that message urinates et orbi, which would say that we all understand together how important insurance is and how much we are ultimately lagging behind some other European Union countries and how good it would be to promote all together a culture of insurance and, on the other hand, I believe that we are all building together a more stable and more efficient society. Thank you again. I believe that for all these reasons that I have mentioned and that have been crystallized in the debate this law will get your support probably on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103004	Thank you too, Deputy. Ivan Shuker replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103005	Well, colleague Radjenovic, I expected that you, as a representative of the motionor, deputy minister, would give a clear answer as to the need to issue, in fact, recording through the fiscal deposit register, which is being made in an isolated manner, so to speak to the insurance places because I have replicated it, because I do not think that the issue should remain a visit in the air. First of all, because of these last sentences that you have said, which is because of the seriousness of the insurance sector, because of the big money that is spinning, because of its economic importance, it is not good to keep the visit in the air a questionnaire, so to be a questionnaire on whether or not they should be covered by a law that regulates the possession of a fiscal register and registration of traffic. I think you just have to answer that question today because if you don't do it then all this good talk about the law falls into the shadows. And secondly, I'm going to repeat what I said at the beginning, what the CNB is for the control of the banking sector's business is HANFA for the control of the non-banking sector. We unfortunately turned HANFA into an office, not an independent agency, and upgraded it as one. Why am I saying that? Well, because this is the law that directs this whole story to HANFA. And another question perhaps to me that you should explain and answer, which is that clearly prescribed conditions may be the chairman of the administration and member of the insurance company's administration. However, in order to become a person, it must have certain professional and educational references, but what is far more important on HANFA must propose its plan and work programme for the insurance company that it comes into and only when it gets the green light for it can then become a member of the administration. I think you were simply the deputy minister to say this for the sake of the Croatian public, but here I am giving you a chance through the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103006	Thank you. Replication response, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103007	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker, for giving me such an opportunity. So I think I was talking about all the three topics that you were actually talking about in this, I don't know if you were at all times in the hall but about the role of HANFA and the positions I think I've made clear and explained in the finals of these provisions and it's not even a secret, here's the final one to be a little more relaxed, the HANFA is in the most part and helped and worked on writing this law because, of course, there and the center of excellence in terms of, if I may say so, in terms of this segment of life, therefore the insurance and reinsurance companies, and that there are also the biggest experts of what we have in the Republic of Croatia. They were even a little bit scared by this new directive, and on the trail of what you're saying whether those with their qualitative and quantitative capacities can do it, but I believe that this increased role will be in some way a challenge for the HANFA colleagues to take a step further. Absolutely as far as these appointments of directors and conditions are concerned, I say your position was not similar to that of counterpart Maric, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ club. The question is whether you can legislate every detail on that side by law, or if it's better to leave one wider maneuvering space, and then trust an institution like HANFA to actually do it... and an expert and give approval to that member of the administration who really deserves it, and to the one who doesn't. I'm more of a supporter of this model, I see you, and I'm glad we agree on that. As far as fiscalization itself is concerned, don't make me go beyond what I can as deputy minister, so I represent the government here, but this is a topic that's not currently on the agenda. It's touched. I think I've said it again and I'm going to repeat that fiscalizing cash traffic has done a lot of good to this country and that we can and should move on. And my personal attitude is that we need to move two steps further, and we're doing something about it on this administrative side as well. But this extension of the fiscalization obligation, you're knocking as far as I'm concerned, personally, at the open door, and I believe we can take a step further there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103008	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103009	Final proposal of the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 799. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representative Jadranka Kosor, the Legislative Committee and representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic to plead with the amendments. First of all, to the amendment of colleague Jadranka Kosor, to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103010	The amendment of the representative of Jadranka Kosor is not accepted by the Government, as Article 8. The final proposal of the Insurance Act cannot be deleted as a whole, as the same is the result of compliance with Article 5(1). Directive 2004/113 as well as the guidelines for the application of Directive 20413 and all in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 1 March 2011. In our court, this article was not discriminatory in the beginning, but in order to avoid any doubt as to whether it is discriminatory, therefore, from the aspect of gender equality, the Government accepted Mr Gjurkovic's amendment to this article, which complements the statement that the Insurance Society must not, in the conclusion of a new Insurance Treaty, take into account the personal circumstances of the sexes in the calculation of the premium and the determination of the amount provided. That fills Mrs. Kosor's amendment, so I hope he gives it up because the intensity is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103011	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103012	In principle, yes, although I think it would be better to delete the whole article. But since there's no chance of being accepted, then I'm not asking for a vote because that would be really pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103013	The amendment of colleague Jadranka Kosor has been withdrawn. We will now move on to amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 7
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103014	Amendment 1 to Article 7 This is about compliance with the Life Partnership Act, so the Government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103015	The second is Article 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103016	With the same explanation, so compliance with the Life Partnership Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103017	Third, Article 454.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103018	Amendments three and four nomotechnical compliance. Both governments accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103019	Article 460
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103020	Nomotechnical Madam Vice President, we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103021	I find that all amendments have become an integral part of the law. And we have an amendment from colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103022	As I said in the reasons for the refusal of the first amendment, this amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103023	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103024	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103025	We will now approach the vote on the final proposal of the Insurance Act. I find that the law was passed by 74 votes to, 23 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103026	We continue with - Proposed accounting law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 792. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister of Finance with us. Deputy introductory explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this law is much shorter than the Insurance Act we had. I believe that there will be no objection that we hastily and urgently passed a Law on Accounting which is not a reader to say so, although I must admit that I personally expected it when my colleagues first gave it to me that it would also be more extensive, that there would be no such closely contained provisions on 37 if I did not cheat on the articles. I expected that law to be so thick and more readable, so here's a law that might be much easier to digest. And the other benefit that's ahead of us or the advantage of this I think I also mentioned in the previous debate that it's a law in first reading, so on the other hand we'll be happy to hear your contribution here today about what and how we can fix. I'm saying, he's quantitatively tight, but it's a very important law and they've talked about it before. So a very important law that regulates accounting, and then it tangs, of course, a much wider area and the economy as a whole. Also carefully prepared law. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the FINA and the Croatian Audit Chamber and the HANFA and members of the OSCE and the State Bureau of Statistics and the CNB participated in the working groups for the production of this law. So, from a professional level, this law has been prepared really carefully and responsibly and therefore I say with a basic intensity to fix it as much as possible, but with a basic intensity to coordinate it, therefore in the field of accounting, to bring our legislation into line with the accounting directive 34 of 2013 which regulates the issues of annual financial reports, consolidated financial reports and related reports of entrepreneurs, and the adoption of a better legal framework as a whole. According to EU requirements, according to EU-level arrangements for the transposition of this Directive into national legislation, it is 20.7.2015, so our proposal for you to enter into force on 1 July of this year. So, half the year every time you pass these financial accounting laws, it's always best that it's a business year. Not everyone's business year with January 1st, but not to go too far into dyspression. Since the deadline is July 20th, we estimate that if you do not have it, then the second best date is July 1. Therefore, we propose that this law enter into force on July 1st. And I repeat once again that this is about first reading and getting to the second reading of some things better fixed, do it for me. I will say something later in this debate Article 35(5), which we intend to change in cooperation with the Commissioner for Information. But it's a good thing I'm not going deep. Therefore, the basic objectives of this law are better accounting to stimulate and economic growth and facilitate access to additional funding, reducing unnecessary administrative burdens for entrepreneurs, improving the quality and comparability of financial information within the EU through additional requirements for some large entrepreneurs. So, if you would like to sum up this law with one sentence, then I would say that for small and micro-enterprises we simplify the story, and that for large entrepreneurs and for their own sake and because of their desire to perform on international markets, we are making their financial reporting conditions somewhat more difficult. The objective of certainly transparent financial information and in the ultimate line and facilitating cross-border investment often in this House we talk about the competitiveness of our country from the aspect of tax and all other complications, giving. We are counting on this proposal of the law in the final line to allow certain and cross-border investments, i.e. By unifying with other financial laws of other countries, we encourage the willingness of companies to work their headquarters in the Republic of Croatia. If you have transparent relationships accountingly, then it may be a small wheel, but one of the points of improvement, so these reports. On the basis of the directive that I have mentioned, this Accounting Act is amended, but so are the Croatian standards of financial reporting, principles and rules for drawing up financial reports for, therefore, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And because of these harmonisations of Croatian financial standards, what may be less interesting to those who are not deep in the topic will need to amend the regulation regarding the structure and content of the annual financial reports that I say will be prescribed by the Minister of Finance equally related to the Regulation with the register of annual financial reports. As I said in the Insurance Act, let only one or two sentences on the insurance market about what this law now means, how many entrepreneurs we have in certain categories and what it means for them. So according to the existing Accounting Act, we divide entrepreneurs into three basic categories, into small, medium and large entrepreneurs. The small make up a majority of 107 thousand 494 entrepreneurs, we're talking about 2013, the 2013 register, not to be confused about numbers, mid-1246, large 352 and, if we include financial institutions, 500 major entrepreneurs. So financial institutions are slightly less than 150 exactly 148. A total of 109,092 entrepreneurs in 2013 in Croatia, if we include finance 109,240. Now we're introducing a new division into micro, small, medium and large and this micro category you've guessed is actually taking up the most important, so we're harmonising with European terminology, and this micro category is taking up the most important part, so of these 109 100 entrepreneurs, roughly 97 860 refer to micro entrepreneurs, small under 10,000, 9596, medium 1328 and the large ones are left with 308 including financial institutions 456. I know it's harder for you to track these numbers, but the trend is 10 percent lower. The little ex-boyfriends are dividing into small and micro and medium-sized things, I say about all of this. But the key newspapers that actually pass this law are the introduction of a category of micro-entrepreneurs, and almost 90% of entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs are characterized by this law on the basis of two of the three criteria. So two out of three criteria should not cross, and that is the total activity of 2.6 million kuna, net income of 5.2 million kuna and the average number of workers over the year to be 10. If two of these three criteria do not go beyond the figures I was talking about, then the entrepreneur is characterized by a micro-entrepreneur and so is 90% in the Republic. This law provides reports for general purposes, public publication needs and statistical and other needs. A reporting framework has also been defined for entrepreneurs operating in the Republic of Croatia. The scope and manner of reporting of entrepreneurs according to the size of entrepreneurs has also been defined. They were introduced, it is particularly important to say until the second reading and I expect some shifts and I would like to hear your contribution, so the legislation for e-business has been introduced by improving the definition of bookkeeping and the possibility of keeping books and bookkeeping documents online. So we're still discussing ourselves, we think we can make a certain shift here, and we can expect certain amendments to the government. But I am saying, I would also like to hear your views on what e-business and the provision of such business gives the development of the Croatian economy and its international competitiveness. What else do you say about this law? If a more detailed consolidation obligation is possible as a possible exemption from that consolidation, a limitation in the distribution of profits is prescribed, additional criteria for the definition of the statutory audit and the use of data from the annual financial reports register have been laid down. And as I mentioned in the beginning this proposal of Article 35.5 has not yet been formalized but we are likely to go out with it, I say in consultation and with the Commissioner for Information and I say in this pentagon or hexagon of all the institutions that were part of the task force to prepare this law we will further define and align it with the proposals that come from the Ministry of Administration, and I say in accordance with the Advocate General's Office for Information. Here, given this relatively late hour, does not delay the clock in the sense that the Insurance Act has defined a lot at the beginning, and also since a lot of the proposal has come up because my colleague Davorin Mlakar has announced to me quite a heated discussion about the Insurance Act, so I was preparing myself further for it, I think this is enough for the opening letter. And I'm in the mood... Yeah, well, the opposition is, the constructive opposition is always good, but of course it's looking for a quality preparation of whoever on behalf of the government is proposing laws. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think I touched on this opening letter the most important point of this law, I believe we'll assume Mr. Vice President after lunch and discuss it in more detail. I say it one more time, and that is why I do not expect to take away your right and for more serious debates, but since it is the law in the first reading that I expect a constructive and quality debate and to put as many good solutions in this bill as possible to the benefit of all together. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103028	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103029	Thank you very much. Well, since we've had several financial laws nearby, one of the perhaps biggest grudges of this law is his discrepancies with the names of the General Tax Law, with the Law on Commercial Society. I'll give you one example. When we discussed the General Tax Law a few days ago, the term of the tax body is used there. When I spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, I said that there is no tax authority but also according to the regulation on the organisation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the internal structure of the Ministry of Finance is the Tax Administration. To reuse that term of the Tax Administration in the Accounting Act. It is not good, for the simple reason that people in the IRS are also referred to the provisions of the Accounting Act and of the General Tax Law and of the Tax Tax on Income, Profit Tax and a number of other tax laws. Because one control of a legal person requires the practical application of all legal regulations and you cannot then, in one provision that the General Tax Law regulates the tax body to do so, while at the same time in the Accounting Act, say that supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration – Inspector. So, these headlines simply have to be harmonised. I repeat, it is very unfortunate for people who are controlling and who need to make some records without speaking tomorrow when these cases are found somewhere in the Administrative Court or somewhere people who are not so financially verifiable then accept what is which body. Because if it's the IRS, then it's the IRS, if it's the IRS, then it's the IRS, then we use it through all the laws. For it is simply that these directives are many of us in Croatia and perhaps even sometimes difficult to understand language but for the simple reason that they stick to practically language expression in all and in this Insurance Act and Accounting Act. And that may be one of the main grudges, but good for some things I'll do more in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103030	Thank you. Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't believe I'm going to cause the anger of my party colleagues by joking or the leadership of the government, but I must fully agree with your replica, Mr. Schucker. So one particular synchronization of terminology would be good, and the way I make the law would be good for us all together as a whole. Unfortunately, it doesn't encourage this government, it doesn't come from the last month, two days. Unfortunately, Croatia has not built there, it is my humble layman's opinion, let me personally step out of the role of the government's representative, and I say that as a state, we have not been able to coordinate some center of excellence precisely for writing laws in this regard so that it is somehow standardised and in general, not only between the Ministry of Finance. And this criticism of yours is justified, and we need to find a way to bring that terminology into line. Whether we're going to Muhammad Hill or Mount Muhammad and change those laws or change these laws, in any case, the termology must be unique. But the look, expression and shape of all laws must be somewhat standardised. And if I am well informed the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament has launched in this direction, I do not know what the document is called, but I think which goes exactly in the direction that the laws on this side are passed more quality, more responsible, more clean, more comparable, and then both their quality and the possibility of errors could possibly be excluded. It's the same, and everyone in the economy knows, and with the consolidated texts of the law. You have several serious entrepreneurs who publish through a web-cleaned text of the law and the state itself is unable to actually do what it is. We are one of the really... countries on the one hand, and yet on the other hand it's really hard to get through it all by the one that's inside, let alone when you have to translate it into English or some other languages. [[You don't understand a word.]] But here's the excuse for this personal depression. And I believe that, in this respect, we all need to protect one step forward together, and this time, the Legislative Committee is a good way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103032	Thank you, too. We'll stop working now, continue at 15.00 hours with a club debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103033	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleague Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103034	... Deputy Minister with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] The club will support the draft law on accounting and we appreciate that it was a good intention of the Ministry of Finance to come out with a new law rather than amendments and additions that would comply with European directives. However, it is still the 2008 law with certain amendments that followed in 2013 and I think given the many significant changes that we did well to come up with a complete proposal for a new law. I also believe that for Croatian opportunities, since the amendments to the law on commercial society have allowed for the establishment of those small companies or minis that we now also have divisions where, apart from small, medium and large, we have a new organisation and these are minimal companies. Especially when we see that out of a total of 109 thousand 240 companies, as many as 97 thousand and 870 fall into the smallest. But this also gives us certain assumptions that we may have been able to address in this law one of the questions that are common between the legislator and the accounting profession experts. So I'll first talk about that part before I talk about the other part. As we can see from the chapters, we have also resolved accounting documents, bookkeeping books, standards, reports, surveillance and even introduced a register of annual financial reports where the FINAs give certain powers in the management of that register. But which is one of the problems that we can't deal with through this law, which is that we try to define the business of keeping business books. We have seen that the legal profession has tried and a good part of the public authority has passed on and defined what lawyers are and what they are notaries, which I would say in insurance and experts who have to deal with, selling insurance, which I would say their necessary professional arrangements, who will oversee them. We know that when it comes to accounting, we have dealt well with the question of auditors, but we have never solved by any legal document the question of what is the main accountant or accountant. And I think that now was an opportunity, so there's a proposal for our club to consider until the second reading, especially what you have and the observations made by the experts of the accounting profession that are now very serious documents, that these are documents that you've defined, whether they're kept or permanent or even 11 years, and that basically remains the question of whether you've always defined which one is professionally prepared, which these are scientific, which are the skills, which is the knowledge that it is necessary to have for the employee who runs the business books to have to have the quality of all these documents under this law to be great. On the other hand, since it is a good part of permanent or long-term document that indeed all those involved in surveillance, who use that data, can still rely on professionally produced documents. And I think that in this law, the biggest disadvantage is that we didn't want to redefine what kind of experts could be at least the main bookkeeper, or who are the ones who have to be responsible for permanent documents whether it's the main book or one of the bookkeeping documents themselves. And I think that by defining and professional arrangements, by defining the name, we could still gain greater responsibility in the assembly and control of accounting documents and in the drawing up of business books as well as in the reports themselves. Because as we can see these reports are no longer closed in a particular company because there is a public publication obligation, there is a obligation to keep and register, and I guess we understand that it is very important for us to have the quality of assembly and documents, the quality of assembly and reports, that in some ways it should be defined. And I think that's basically the biggest disadvantage and that just in the Accounting Act, we could have a special head that could have the name of the business book-keeping activity and that in some ways we would define who would do it. There are currently about 5 to 7,000 employees working on business books in Croatia, which means it is not a large number. But if we really want to do so, maybe in the beginning, turn to only some companies, then it can be small, medium and large, and we will see that it is not even 11,000 legal entities, because the minimum of 97,000 may not be defined at this time, because it is still operations up to 5 million kunas of annual income or a net balance of 2 million and 800, which means that this division now allows us to concentrate only on serious companies and, of course, on small, medium and large ones, and that at least in that part we define the obligation that experts must account for the certification of accounting documents, the way of publishing, the keeping of business books and, of course, what is important and just reporting. Therefore, I think that the greater quality that we have adopted European standards that define how we will now share companies, but what is also important is that we have introduced Croatian reporting standards unlike international ones. Although they will be in a lot of alignment, I am somehow convinced that we will still have those standards in some way adapted to our companies, especially as it relates to small and medium-sized companies. I believe that it will still make it possible for better reports because when we talk about applying international standards it was far, far harder and I would say more complicated for some of our companies. The Financial Reporting Standards Committee is a body to be formed by the Government. We see by structure that these are experts who have to be very professional in handling all terms, and I believe that we will have the same help primarily for the companies of this committee because this is the most important thing, that companies have quality guidance and quality solutions. But again, I repeat that it is very important to have an accounting profession that must be of quality, which will understand both the interpretations and the instructions that we will have in order to be the quality financial reports that administrations must submit at the end of the year or in the case of status changes. What's still in question for us is deadlines. It is foreseen that the law enters into force 1.7 this year in which the Minister of Finance should draw up a series of instructions, the minister should give individual regulations and, in fact, the standards that will need to be adopted by that deadline are also questionable whether they can be implemented within that short period. So the thing with full confidence that the Ministry of Finance can do all that, it's still questionable that we'll be able to finish that part with 1.7. On the other hand, it's always half a year one of the problems if there's a change in the classification of companies, in the change in reporting, what we're going to do in that part with half a year. So I think a far better solution would have been if we had gone on a proposal to still have this law in force on 1.2016, and to give enough time for quality preparation of accompanying acts and documents that the ministry must make by that deadline. And on the other hand, it would be a lot easier to start the business year from the beginning and apply accounting rules essentially by 1.1. Another reading is still waiting for us, so it is always the problem whether this second reading will be so quick that there will be enough time left to apply 1.7. But what I would like to mention once again, to try to see if another head can be added because I simply think that we will get a greater quality in the realisation of this law. Full first reading support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103035	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103036	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, I am pleased that you support the law and you have touched most of the essence of the law except perhaps one thing that is extremely important to me, and that is the problem of the revision. It's something I want to give to you but also to the promoter of thought, to you as a club but also to hear your opinion. You're also a financier. According to the current Accounting Act, these audit obligations were: large entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs whose shares or debt securities are included in the securities market and entrepreneurs whose such obligation is laid down by a special regulation. This was in conflict with the Revision Act, which said that bonds are all stock companies, companies and all limited liability companies whose separate, i.e. consolidated total revenue in the year preceding the year of the audit exceeds 30 million kuna if they are not already bonds referred to in point 1. So we had a cohesion that was often interpreted, and so the Audit Law takes the precedent there, that is, small entrepreneurs who cross 30 million kunas of traffic per year, i.e. the income of the audit bonds. Now, the new Accounting Act tells us, so this proposal that we have ahead of us is that the bonds are the ones that, a limited liability company, if they cross two of the following three conditions, which is the amount of an active 15 million kuna or more, the total income of 30 million kuna or the average number of employees of 25. So that's where the Revision Act comes from before it imposes, means the obligation to audit and small entrepreneurs, imposes it now, and I actually have a problem with it, that's where I have the dilemma. Small entrepreneurs with relatively low income, and you will agree that 30 million kuna traffic and not some big income are bonds of audit, especially if we have one or two, up to two owners at most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103037	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103038	I personally believe that the issue of review should not relate to the size of a company but to the form of organisation. And I think it's obvious that the revision has some great significance for the founders themselves. Therefore, if this is the type of company organisation where you have a larger number of founders, then I think that the revision is very important for the founders, because it is the audit that guarantees them that the management and supervisory board function in the interest of their ownership, their capital. Therefore, I do not agree with the solution in that section that the Accounting Act defines the obligation to audit except for large entrepreneurs in view of the importance of their reports. Everything else I think should define the Law on Audit, but it should not be addressed to small entrepreneurs and simple ways of organising companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103039	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103040	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have before us a proposal for a law on accounting and it is certain that we at the HDSSB club are also analysing this law, and we are glad that it is a new law, which is not a clear text. Because it is also time to go with the new law, not only to comply with European directives, but it is also good to talk about what may not be in this law. In view of the Accounting Act, the draft accounting law introduces a new category of entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurs, is classified as micro, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, and thus according to the reasons and presentation of compliance with EU directives. It is important that we comply with EU directives, but Croatia has its specialities. But when we look at the number of entrepreneurs 109 thousand entrepreneurs and their total income of 664 billion kuna and when we see that it is only 456 large entrepreneurs, and that includes financial institutions, then we can ask ourselves whether Croatia is really resting on 200 families or 200 entrepreneurs, what has been said for years. But it's visible from these indicators that that's exactly what happened. But looking at a law that elaborates on the concepts of a related entrepreneur and which is considered to be a group of entrepreneurs who can also be small, medium and large. And I just think that's where we should focus on this development and related entrepreneurs. Looking at this very sorting and often setting up new companies, and in the old OIB we can come up with that one owner, then surely we have to look at the united data that way. And it is us at the HDSSB club and we propose independently on the size of entrepreneurs and the annual report to be submitted to the FINA for public publication, and the law states that they can be taught in paper or digital form, but in the section of the public publication, it is said that FINA will prescribe a form of digital format in which they must be submitted. I think we should get a little more work done here, so I suggest that the rest of the ministry take a little more time with the professional services that part. But it's important for us to do business as quickly and as operationally as possible. And precisely, if you submit your report to the FINA and when it comes to the date, when it comes to the date, when it comes to a particular group of reports such as the profit and loss account, the balance sheet and the additional data for the previous year, then it is not stated that the FINAs are submitted until 31 March for the previous year with an explanation that they serve for the needs of supervision, and for statistical needs. The law defines that supervision of companies is carried out by the Tax Administration and the Croatian National Bank in the case of banks, and entrepreneurs are required to submit the same reports to the Tax Administration together with a tax application on 30 April for the previous year. I believe that certain deadlines should be harmonised right between the IRS and FIN, and that these reports should be submitted in one place. That we don't complicate the road and that people don't have to walk into the IRS, in FINA just so that it unites in one place it can be FINA. And as the IRS can reach any of us, so can entrepreneurs, and I also don't see any reason why the IRS and FINA don't have united information and united data. I think it's a waste of time, and it's time for entrepreneurs to have money, so I think that in one place, all services should be connected and download data for further processing. That's exactly what focus should be. However, seeing that we are persistently bringing new rules regarding entrepreneurship, harmonising with new European standards, changing the tax system, and it is not good to create legal uncertainty for entrepreneurs but we cannot solve the problem that has taken place, which is that the same persons are setting up 2, 3 and 15 companies, for a short time doing business and taking them to loss, workers do not pay their wages, remain in debt to suppliers and state. And then what happens? The latest phenomenon is that the owners of companies do not shut down their companies but shut down the jury account so that no one can collect their claims. I think in that part we should also focus. But when we look at Article 13, keeping the documents for 11 years, so this documentation can be abroad but I'm thinking exactly if we link the story of FINA and the IRS that we can also limit that deadline to a smaller period. Because just if all that data were tied up, it would be easier to control them. Article 24 shall refer to auditors. We all know that there have often been auditors and mistakes, even in global crises, looking at America, looking at other countries, it has also happened to large multinational companies that auditors make mistakes. But this is exactly where we need to reduce space because it is known that usually the one who pays for the audit that the audit still slightly more sensitive access to that audit and writes what is the employer or the one who pays for the audit and asks for it. Therefore, it is important for us each to do our job and also to have licensed auditors. And it is important that we also see the number in Croatia as much as the license of people who have not been consciously and responsibly performed their part of the audit work, because just as we look at accounting and when we work in accounting, when we act on international accounting standards, it is important that auditors also confirm, especially in larger systems, that they have acted on MRSs and that work is done in a quality way. Therefore, here with little suggestions, the HDSSB club will support this law, we think it is truly complete, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103041	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103042	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, one law in principle that we can say is purely technical because it's by the nature of that law. However, what you may have to say, given that it is a first reading and certainly because of the applicant's willingness to accept certain remarks, is one fellow colleagues and colleagues if you have noticed both in this law and in this morning in the Insurance Act and in this Accounting Act, as well as in all the laws which, in the most part of their text, attach to compliance with the EU directive, introduce some brand new expressions, a new technique of writing in Croatian. And when you look at those sentences, those words are complicated then someone who is not 100% in the problem is extremely difficult to understand in principle what this article means. And now there's one question, is it going to be a practice in the future? If it's going to be a practice in the future then first of all what I told Mr. Deputy is very important that we have the exact same expression for the same thing no matter how many times in any law it is mentioned. Because if we don't have it, we're going to have a big legal powder named after a few years, and we're not going to know who it refers to. Because when you look at this law alone, it defines in principle certain processes as to how they should be conducted, how some other things should be reported, but technically looking at many of these far more detailed processes is defined by international accounting standards and tax laws and some other laws. So I'm saying it's very important that this law as a roof law, because now that we're talking to people who have a narrow specialty, so those who deal with accounting would certainly each of them have some kind of objection to this technical part of the reporting business, about electronic books, about this or that, but what accounting needs to be undeniable is that some things simply can't appear like that. express the net arrival. Now that you look at where in tax laws you have net income, you don't have it anywhere. You have before and after taxes. This is defined by the Tax on Profits Act. The second thing, to get to the tax base is different from what the total income is. But why am I saying that? Because you've tied your net income here to tax laws. But now look at what it says here, says net income refers to the amounts achieved by selling the product and by providing services after the withdrawal of the discount and value added tax and other taxes directly related to the revenue. There can be no other tax directly related to income. Why? Because the only value added tax is neutral as far as the financial results are concerned. It's the only neutral tax on the taxpayer. So it's clearly defined when you become a taxpayer of value added tax, so at the time you sell goods or services. Until then, you've returned everything you've paid in previous stores, so with the bills you've received, as a pretax. And therefore, you can't put value added tax and other income tax directly here. Why? Because in one article you later talk about consumer taxes and then you mention income tax, income tax is not a consumer tax, income tax is a income tax and consumer tax is exclusively a value added tax. And possibly in that category you can put special taxes or excises. Therefore, you can't have in the consumer tax and income tax provision, because income tax is the cost of operating as part of gross wages, because income tax is actually income is an integral part of the income which is on the terms on which income receipts of employees or others who are taxpayers of income tax, you book it as a gross cost. And you can't talk when you're talking about net income, your net income is practically just a definition of VAT returns, VAT returns, you get net income with that monthly billing. But I'm saying is that an expression used in tax laws, is that an expression used in international accounting standards, and is that an expression used in accounting standards of the Republic of Croatia? So that's in Article 3(8). Now, one more thing, some society is thought to have a significant impact on other companies if it has 20% and more voting rights, now look in Croatia according to the Law on Commercial Society where you as the owner have both influence on management rights and all 25%. Is when you have 25% then you have certain control rights. So, according to this, if we've defined it with the lex specialis law that it's 25% how come, on the basis of what we've come here up to 20%, you understand? Because if you're based on the Company Act, if you have below 25% of the shares, you can't exercise certain management rights, then why do we say by Accounting Act that someone can do something if they have 20%? It would be better if we used 25% for the simple reason that he had oneness. Because you might get someone to commit a violation of the Company Act, and it might also happen that they're breaking the Accounting Act, and you've got 25, and there's 20% of you here. Now this is particularly interesting, the entities in the mining and extraction activities and the entities in the activity remember primary forests. I think they are directives, but given the Law on concessions and all together, I don't know what the entities in the mining and extraction activities mean. You have this legal person who, based on a public tender, got a concession to do certain things, there's no subject, he's no subject, it's a legal person like Stef or Jura who manufacture shoes, they have a company called... So it can't be an entity, it can be a legal person who has this activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why, why are these two provisions important? It is good that in a more transparent way they want to show these activities, therefore mining, and extraction of gravel, and the capture of other natural resources and cutting down forests. So, positive and good is it, I'm just saying I don't know if this subject is exactly something that's from... That's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now it says payment and the amount paid in money or natural for activities described in Article 27, and here it says says the profits of companies excluding taxes on consumption such as value added tax, income tax or sales tax. Transport tax no longer exists in the financial transactions of legal persons, the only thing left in Croatia is real estate sales tax in the sale of used real estate between citizens. Sales tax is no longer available in Croatia. The second thing, if we're talking about it, I was already talking about consumption tax, that income tax can't make any sense. And now this article 5 and microclassification, you see because of, and this is the biggest problem actually when we talk about the economy of the Republic of Croatia, somewhere around 88% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are micro entrepreneurs, they're practically in this first group. Now, if we still had as many of these micro-entrepreneurs as we have amongst those micro-entrepreneurs who make certain traffic and have no employees, and I think the Accounting Act should define that the company cannot operate without any employees. Why? Because 68% of blocked companies and about 69.70% of total blocked funds in the Republic of Croatia are related to companies without any employees. And no matter what anyone can say it is not in the EU directives but it is, we have detected it as a Croatian specific person, a Croatian problem and we are the only accounting law we can solve this problem, simply not to be recognised any cost of anything, it was once in the Accounting Act whether, if there are no employees, it was once in the Accounting Act. But I'm saying it's a Croatian problem. Article 7 says accounting transactions are the collection and processing of data based on accounting documents. Look, I remember my first year of college, and when we talked about the basics of accounting, then one basic definition of accounting was a credible documentation in chronological order. And that is what must stand out in Article 7(1). Therefore, accounting transactions are collection and processing of data based on credible documentation and chronological order. It's a fundamental element for accounting. Because if you don't have a credible file and there won't be time later, so I might report for an individual debate, and when you look here, it's not explained what's credible documentation. So, credible documentation and chronological order. It's the basis of everything. The relevant accounting documents shall be any internal or external written documents and electronic records describing the occurrence of a business event. Look, bookkeeping doesn't describe the creation of a business event, it's just defined whether you bought the product and the service, the accompanying documentation you book through analytical bookkeeping describes the event. You don't book it in the main book, you book in the main book a bill that's being called on the basis of a shipping, contract or something and nothing in it writes to you anymore. But these accompanying documents, along with the main document, explain to you what was going on. It can sometimes be 1,000 pages but this document based on which you book can be practically only one page where you define by the basis of the contract the number of these and that since then and then and the amount of such and such a big and finished story. So this provision describes the creation of a business event. The creation of a business event is not described by an account. You only when you make an account if it is not legally defined, if you do not define it, you have to pay it within the legal time limit, but in that account you have a call to a number, you connect to some documents. Whether these are contracts, whether they're work orders, whether they're shipments, anything else, they're auxiliary documents that are recorded in some other analytical, accounting documents. A bookkeeping document drawn up in a single copy may be sent, as such, without a bookkeeping document drawn up in a single copy. Why? Because it has to be at least two copies. There's one that stays with you and the other is the one you send to the one who needs to pay you. And you, if you put together one example, then if you don't send someone you want to charge for something and you can't charge for it because you didn't send it. And if you send that one copy, then you don't have a copy on you. So you should be standing here, that's Article 8(5), so at least two copies, even though all these documents are basically done in four copies. I don't understand what you mean by that. A significant accounting document must be credible, neat and drawn up in a way that ensures timely supervision. What does it mean to ensure timely supervision? The bookkeeping document is a document based on which certain business events are recorded and when it comes to supervision it is used by it. Therefore, I think that, in order to ensure timely supervision should simply be removed from this sentence, that is Article 9(1) of you. Now, the main book is a composite accounting record of changes made in the financial position of business success. It's not like that. The main book, however, is something else, all business events are recorded inside, and first you record them through the diary and then in the main book and then by using that main book you do the balance or by new financial reports. This definition, therefore, records of changes made in the financial position and performance of your business, is the success of your business at the end of the year, so the result of the sum in the main book of all events. Is that right or isn't it? The way my time is running out, it's not normal. The revision of the annual financial report, I probably won't be able to say any more, what I've been up to since the revision was established, which is the responsibility of that audit. There's no colleague here who wasn't getting the circumstances in some supervisory board somewhere and you on the supervisory board adopt an audit report and then someone later accuses you that it's not like that and you've paid that auditor fatly to make that audit report for you and they have no responsibility at all. And that's what you just have to do, they have to have responsibility for what they wrote. They, if they have noticed certain irregularities in the book, a certain lack of time, are obliged to warn the one for whom the report works. So these are technical remarks, I hope you'll adopt them, but I'm saying, the law itself has no reason not to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103043	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103044	Dear Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The fundamental reason for the adoption of this law is Croatia's obligation to bring the current Accounting Act into line with Directive 34/2013 by 20 July of this year. the years of the European Parliament and the European Council. The word is also a directive that requires rational financial reporting, hence discharging entrepreneurs from compiling surplus and unnecessary financial reports and increasing the comparability of financial information within the European Union. It is precisely this increase in the comparability of financial business information that should contribute to increasing confidence in the financial reports of the interested public, and in particular potential investors and domestic and foreign investors. In order to achieve this discharge of entrepreneurs from the collection of surplus financial reports, a new classification of entrepreneurs and groups of entrepreneurs, given their size, will actually determine the quantity and volume of the reports. So the bigger the entrepreneur is obliged to submit more reports and vice versa, the smaller these reports will be. The criteria for the classification of entrepreneurs remained the same as in the existing Accounting Act, i.e. the value of assets, revenues and the number of workers. In view of the fact that, as of now, net revenue will be used instead of the present criteria, the total income obtained by selling products or by providing services will be reduced by VAT and any discounts. The exemption will be entrepreneurs who do not generate revenue from the sale of products or the provision of services but only generate income from rents, financial revenues and the like. Thus, such entrepreneurs in the financial reports will not show net income but total income and the classification criteria will be total and not net income. The biggest novelty, as we have heard in the grouping of entrepreneurs, is the introduction of a new category of entrepreneurs, it is about micro-entrepreneurs. These are entrepreneurs meeting two of the three criteria envisaged. So the first criterion is that their total assets do not exceed 2 million and 600,000 kuna, the second criterion is that net income does not exceed 5 million kunas and the third criterion is that the average number of workers during the business year does not exceed 10 workers. Given the existing structure of Croatian entrepreneurs, it is obvious that far the largest number of them meet exactly the criteria to be micro entrepreneurs and to be obliged to draw up and present financial reports as such. In fact, according to the current law of 109 240 business-active entrepreneurs, we had as much as 107 494 small entrepreneurs, 1246 were medium-sized entrepreneurs and around 500 large entrepreneurs. Now according to this new classification, we're going to have 97 860 micro entrepreneurs, 9596 small entrepreneurs, 1328 medium and 456 large entrepreneurs. When I mentioned this number of 109 000 business-active entrepreneurs, I would like to stress in this regard that it is those who fulfil the legal obligation to submit financial reports. Unfortunately, those who do not meet that obligation still have almost the same amount, so about 100 thousand. So registered entrepreneurs in Croatia are about 200 thousand, but each other does not deliver financial reports because there are simply no sanctions for this failure. To be quite precise, only if three years in a row does the entrepreneur deliver financial reports will he be deleted from the Trade Register. But back to the Accounting Act. So micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will draw up annual financial reports by applying Croatian standards of financial reporting, which is a big difference compared to so far when it has been done by grissoms, while large entrepreneurs as well as public-interest entities, so banks, insurance and resecuritisation companies, Leasing societies, pension societies, funds, stock exchanges, etc. continue to comply with this obligation by applying international standards of financial reporting. As part of the annual financial reports, small entrepreneurs will draw up only three documents, so balance sheet, profit and loss accounts and notes with financial reports. Unlike these small entrepreneurs, large entrepreneurs will draw up as many as 6 documents, including a small report on comprehensive profits, a report on cash flows and a report on changes in capital. In addition to the annual financial reports, large entrepreneurs will also have to produce annual reports that will provide a true and objective demonstration of the development and performance of their business, as well as a description of the most important risks and uncertainty they face. So it's something completely new. Micro and small entrepreneurs do not have an obligation to draw up annual reports, but some important information such as information on the purchase of their own shares or shares will have to make notes with an annual financial report. Furthermore, medium-sized entrepreneurs will have to produce annual reports as well as large entrepreneurs but without non-financial data, which is still a much smaller burden compared to large entrepreneurs. Large entrepreneurs and public-interest entities engaged in the activities of mining or the activities of cutting primary forests receive another new obligation. It is therefore an obligation to draw up an annual report on public sector payments of more than 743 000 kuna. That report shall be drawn up and presented together with the annual financial report. The novelty in relation to the existing Accounting Act is also a formula for all members of the administration to sign financial reports, i.e. directors or executive directors of entrepreneurs. So far, they have been signed by a person authorised to represent what produced certain problems on the ground because not all members of the administration or executive directors were familiar with the content of the financial reports. Under the new provisions, the person authorised for representation will only sign when the entity does not have an administration or executive director. And in the end, I would like to make one personal remark, so something that I lack in this legislative proposal is provisions that set out the criteria for the management of accounting operations. I think that by establishing the obligation of obtaining a license to conduct accounting operations would significantly raise and level professional level of Croatian accountants, so that it would not happen as it has often been the case, that accounting is done by everyone, so that it does this unequivocally and that it actually brings entrepreneurs into trouble in an unprofessional way. I think the Accounting Act is actually the most suitable place for the accounting license provisions to be pointed out here, and in my opinion, if that head, as my colleague Linic suggested, on the management or licensing of accountants, would be put into the Accounting Act, then he would really, we could say, be complete. The SDP club will, of course, support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103045	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103046	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates the accounting of entrepreneurs, their classification in groups of entrepreneurs, accounting documents and business books, the list of assets and liabilities, the application of standards and the production of annual financial reports of audits and the public publication of all annual reports, and at the end of the register of financial reports, as well as the supervision of business itself. The current Accounting Act in the Republic of Croatia has been in force since the beginning of 2008, and in order to comply with the EU acquis, i.e. the European Parliament and Council Directive, amendments and additions were adopted in April 2013 and entered into force in May 2013. It is required to be applied by entrepreneurs, foreign-country-based companies as well as by any legal and natural person who is a taxpayer of the profit tax established by the rules governing taxes. The law does not apply to state budgets and budget beneficiaries of the state budget, the budgets of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and their budgetary users, religious communities, political parties, trade unions and other non-profit organisations operating under the Law on Accounting of Non-profit Organisations. According to FINA of January 2015, there are around 109 thousand entrepreneurs in Croatia whose total assets amount to 1560 billion kuna and total revenues amount to 664 billion kuna. Under the bill, these 109 thousand entrepreneurs will be classified as 97,000 micro entrepreneurs, 9 and a half thousand small entrepreneurs, 1328 medium and 456 large entrepreneurs. The law stipulates that micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are bonds of application of Croatian standards, and large entrepreneurs and entities of public interest are bound to apply international standards of financial reporting. These are banks, housing savings, insurance companies, pension companies operating pension funds, stock exchanges, investment and depositary companies, etc. The classification of entrepreneurs is based on the amount of the total activity, the amount of net income and the average number of workers. The adoption of this bill will need to bring Croatia's financial reporting standards in line with the annual financial reports, the consolidation of financial reports and the revision of annual financial reports. This law clarifies the composition of annual financial reports in case of status changes, when opening a bankruptcy procedure or initiating a liquidation procedure against an entrepreneur. The law prescribes accounting transactions for the collection and processing of data based on accounting documents, the preparation and management of accounts, the collection of annual financial reports and the preparation of data for statistical, tax and other needs. Each entrepreneur is obliged to keep business books in accordance with the rules in this law, respecting the prescribed standards and the basic principles of orderly accounting. An entity may transfer accounting operations by contractual means to the accounting service provider, but it is fully responsible for them while the service provider must have all the necessary resources for the proper, quality and efficient performance of accounting operations and functions, as well as professional qualifications and experience in the performance of those tasks. After each business event, an accounting document shall be drawn up which is the basis for the entry of data on the business event into the accounts. The bookkeeping document must be unequivocal, orderly, true and must contain all relevant information on the business event and shall be drawn up in a way that ensures timely recording and its supervision. An entrepreneur shall be obliged to determine the responsible person who will verify the correctness of each accounting document prior to the entry into the accounts. The original written document of the accounting document shall be kept on the holder of an electronic record or micrographic processing, which shall be the payrolls, the analytical records of the payments for which the contributions are paid, shall be kept permanently, and any other documents whose data have been entered in the logbook, the master book and the auxiliary books shall be kept for at least 11 years. Those entrepreneurs who store accounting documents using electronic devices with online access must enable the authority to monitor the right to access, download and use such data. The entrepreneur is obliged at the start of business at the end of the financial year and in exceptional cases, which are bankruptcy or liquidation to carry out so-called. Inventory or list all assets and liabilities both quantitatively and valuablely and with such data to comply with the accounting status. At the end of the financial year, the entrepreneur is required to draw up an annual report on the annual financial report, the audit report and all consolidated reports as well as the payment reports and all of this to be submitted to the Financial Agency for public publication. Also, by 31 March of the current year, entrepreneurs are obliged to deliver the balance sheet of profits and losses and all additional data for the previous calendar year. FINA shall determine the electronic format and format of the presentation of all the reports received to be published on the website of the Register of Annual Financial Reports and shall be obliged to issue a copy or print of those reports on a written request of each natural or legal person within 15 days. In order to carry out the supervision of entrepreneurs in the section of accounting operations, to verify whether the accounting officer is performing in accordance with the provisions of this law, the tax administration inspectors of the Ministry of Finance shall be responsible. The supervision shall be carried out by monitoring, collecting and checking accounting documents, accounts, annual financial reports, and other tax and statistical reports by checking the data processing systems, and direct supervision by entrepreneurs. The inspector may adopt a solution on the removal of detected irregularities or determine the initiation of a criminal or criminal proceedings. For a number of different offences, there are sanctions on entrepreneurs in the form of fines ranging from 10 to 100 thousand kuna, and fines ranging from 5 to 20 thousand kuna are provided for the responsible person of the entrepreneur as well as for the natural person who does not benefit from the data and documents in the Register of Annual Financial Reports under this law. Therefore, this law regulates the accounting of entrepreneurs in accordance with EU directives even though accounting has been well and in line with international accounting standards so far in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, one of my remarks or perhaps a proposal, that this law should apply from the beginning of the year, so from 1.01.2016, not from July 1st, because there may be some problems in some accounting segments. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103047	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103048	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, as we have had the opportunity to hear so far, these are more or less technical changes to the law, and most of the proposed changes and additions are actually a alignment with the European acquis, and the part is actually a clearer definition and arrangement of certain segments of the law in accordance with current practice and in accordance with some of the needs I would say which practice it has drawn out. So it is certainly to welcome this that smaller entrepreneurs will have less paperwork, so when we talk about final reports, that they will, of course, have more extensive reports accordingly, etc. But what I've come up with and I'd like to talk about, what I've found in the replica of my colleague Linic, is actually the subject of the revision. It is not a subject that is necessarily touched by this law, it is mentioned in an article if I am not mistaken, but I think it is worth mentioning and giving the Proposer to think about whether this problem can be reached as well. So before I say anything about the rate of this problem, I'd just like to repeat once more the situation we've had so far. Therefore, according to the current Accounting Act, audit bonds were large entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs whose shares are on the securities market and those entrepreneurs whose such obligation has already been laid down by other specific regulations. This Accounting Act, which was in force, was in collapsing with the existing Audit Act. And the Revision Act says that audit bonds are all stock companies, command companies and all limited liability companies whose total income is separated or consolidated in the year preceding the year of the audit exceeds 30 million kuna. If they are not bonds referred to in point 1. So, according to current legislation, we had a situation where the Accounting Act therefore resulted in small entrepreneurs not being the bonds of audit, and we had the Audit Act which therefore requires and that small entrepreneurs were the bonds of audit if therefore their consolidated incomes crossed 30 million kunas. Now in the new draft law, this is Article 21 which determines the obligation of the audit, and says in paragraph 3 that the company's audit bonds are limited liability if it means crossing two of the following conditions, which is the total amount of assets, total income and average number of employees. So I'm going to repeat once again, the amount of the total assets of 15 million kuna, the total income of 30 million, so here's what we've heard is that it's still going to be reduced to VAT, but regardless, and the average number of employees is 25. So we have a situation where our entrepreneurs had incomes greater than 30 million kunas actually bond audits. This doesn't have to be so bad, and I agree with my colleague Linić in fact that depending on the structure, i.e. the organisation of the work of an economic operator here we can talk about the revision. So it certainly matters if we talk about stock companies where we have more founders, and if we talk about public enterprises and public institutions, then without further ado, that the revision should and must be mandatory regardless of the amount of their income. However, the revision as such can be a major imposition, i.e. a great burden to small entrepreneurs, and we have heard that small entrepreneurs in Croatia have almost 90%. I want to illustrate exactly what I mean. In fact, audit prices define the market, but the Revision Act prescribes the lowest prices below which audit services cannot be carried out. They're mostly small entrepreneurs quite a burden. Here are just a few examples of practices that I can give out of my own life, my own acquaintances, people I meet which in the business as well as now as an agent. So we have a stock company, owns one person, total income in the last year was 40 million and 700 thousand kuna. This comes to 25 points according to the review score. The company's activity is €39.5 million, which is another 25 points for the review score. And the number of employees is 42 which is an additional five points. So all together it's 55 points times 1000 kuna per point and you get a nice figure of 55 thousand kuna. $55,000 to an entrepreneur, the sole owner of some service that doesn't necessarily matter to him. I think that this small entrepreneur is therefore responsible for his company and his company, that all the capital in it is his because he is the only owner is small enough to have complete control over his balance sheet, and if he really needs an audit for some reason because he does not trust his accountants, or the accountants will take an audit alone without further imposing this obligation. So, in this case, I don't see who this revision should protect. So, in little d.o.o. In most cases, the owners are one or two persons and are often both involved in the work either as a management, either as the employees themselves in other kinds and are forced to conclude that the audit is actually protecting itself from themselves. The Ministry of Finance and the IRS often control these very small entrepreneurs, among other things, and protects the interests of the state so that I still don't see the reason why the audit must be mandatory for them. Maybe it could be every three years or maybe every two years or it could be solved in some other way but just every year it's not a good solution for me. There is another way and it is to try to leave the market to regulate the price of the audit but then of course we can't put any restrictions either at the minimum were at the maximum of that price. Let's say another example of the price of the audit, also the company of two owners, the total income is 37 million kuna, almost 39, the asset is slightly more than 100 million kuna and the number of employees is 38. So the point prescribed by the law would get to 90 points and that's 90 thousand kuna. If you consider the profits of this entrepreneur that we're talking about 150 thousand kuna, then you realize how much 90 thousand kuna is an enormous burden on his business. So, what I would like to propose to the applicant both in the law in question and in the possible discussions on the amendments to the Law on Audit, to try to regulate the statutory audits differently, so if we are also talking about entrepreneurs that can be included in small ones, so these are the criteria that are now proposed up to 30 million kunas of consolidated income, i.e. up to 15 million kunas of total activity to be or in some longer period, so 2, 3, 4 years as we already estimate that it is important or that we exempt them at all if all owners agree with this. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103049	And here you go, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103050	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy and colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to go where I left off, so I touched the auditor, their reports, the mandatory submission of the review document, and what I said, and I'm going to underline it again, where's the responsibility of the audit? And I think that's the key. Because if I give you a minimum price, if I oblige you to carry out the audit, and then whoever does that audit has no responsibility at all, then I don't see the full sense of it all together. It would be logical, since we were here saying that 88% of entrepreneurs are micro, so those who have fewer incomes, have fewer employees and most of them generally run a business book with an accountant. It's one thing when your business books are run by your employee, which I'll talk to you about later on about who should have such conditions, is another thing when you run the book service, you don't have that much contact with him, and you can't communicate with him about the kind of document, or how that document came about, whether that accountant can track the complete process as this document came about, he simply wrote down the paper that you give him. But you are therefore giving your business an evaluation of an auditor who should practically look at everything from making a business decision to making a business decision and its efficiency, and ineffectiveness and all other elements and, in principle, gives some sort of opinion. But it would be logical if some errors in the accounting work were subdued to warn the auditor about it but on the other hand, if he saw it and noticed it but did not warn you that he had some kind of responsibility. It's just some elements of ethical behavior. But unfortunately, as far as the auditor is concerned, since this definition of them with some changes up or down has remained the same, however, it is not possible to push that responsibility for the report they are making. The conditions for keeping business books, once precisely prescribed depending on the size of the company, were in fact practically internal acts defined that it had to be a graduate economist for the final team and this direction, with exactly so many years of work experience on these jobs, but if we were talking about, I think that a colleague Linic was talking about the fact that accounting services should be installed in this accounting law, then if they installed these conditions that could have an accounting service, I think that right then they came to what is extremely important to the state that people who control these business books come across orderly documentation so that they could control them more easily. Because my colleagues and colleagues, I repeat, 68% were blocked by companies without any employees. Somewhere around 69% of total assets, blocked funds were related to companies without any employees. And could that have happened if we followed all the laws, it didn't. And that's why I repeat it in the law should be processed practically to count as it used to be in the profit tax code, that you, you, and those costs can't be recognised if the company doesn't have any employees. And someone can't pay some kind of cost that I'm about to say personal nature, first of all think about the material costs, if nobody's busy with her. 'Cause look, a lot of these jobs, unfortunately, are done with jobs somewhere else. The second thing, many of these companies, to use that term, has been shading many people in Croatia, have not paid them and opened up a new company and continued to do so. We unfortunately may not have it in the EU directives, but it was a mass phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia that we, not a single directive, will tell us not to install it inside, we must install it in our accounting law until we clear it. Until we get to one of those companies, whether they're going to go bankrupt or simply eliminate them from a list of companies that are blocked. However, there is something else interesting, Mr. Deputy, that is Article 26(1) and (2) where language and currency are spoken. I cannot accept this definition, therefore, that all these reports and other financial information are expressed in the currency unit applicable in the Republic of Croatia. So we had a currency that's what it is and why it wouldn't be legal if they had to be expressed in kunas and then that line and 00. Because what does the currency unit used in the Republic of Croatia mean? We tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, or in 20 years when we enter the euro zone then the euro will stand here, but the currency simply out of some national pride I don't think it should stand. I'd really beg if you could put it on, I think all fellow MPs will welcome it, that it's beautifully written by kunas. And now something about a public sector payment report. Let me tell you the truth, that's why I've come forward with these two things, this is why I'm gonna end up paying in the public sector, so I don't understand how you got to these 743 thousand kunas? Was that the moment the 100,000-euro exchange rate was 743 thousand kuna. Because look, now you see what an awkward situation, then it would have been better if you'd indicated some amount, an equivalent that much, or if you'd gone to a round sum of 800,000 or 700 thousand kuna, then it would have been ok and this is how it's seen from the plane that it was written at the time when 100 thousand euros was worth 743 thousand kuna. But that's paragraph 3, I think that would be wise to change. However, this paragraph 5 really does not make sense to me. If payments in the public sector are made in the nature of such payments will prove valuable and where possible quantitative and notes will provide an explanation in the manner in which the displayed value is determined. So this is a provision where you practically push those involved in this process into a criminal act. Because tomorrow anyone gets in control, and if you make a document like this in law, you're practically on the other side of the law. Because if there's no payment in nature, you simply by means of a contract, a cask or something, someone who knows what I know, pulled out a gravel or something in the name of what you're supposed to pay for a concession will give you 100,000 cc's of gravel for, or 10 grand for pouring roads, but that gravel at that time has some value on the market. And that must be clearly defined. And not here do the deal like this, like this, like this, like that. After all, payments in nature are something that is very rarely applied in the Republic of Croatia and, when applied, those who apply this are trying to ensure maximum protection that no one can call them tomorrow. So I think, Mr. Deputy, that we should definitely change this, so clearly define that it must be defined by the contract, that it must define quantitatively and that it must be defined as the amount per product unit at that time was on the market but in some other way. Any other provision, and especially as you put it here, can put people involved in this process in a very difficult situation. Here, like I said, I'll support this bill. I won't talk about the reports, about their characteristics, because 100 accountants would talk about them differently. So this is at a technical level and on these things I just had to warn because I think if we put them differently, the law would be better and better quality. And what matters most is that those who apply it simply put it in a position to know if they did something, if in such a way they wrote it down that they are in accordance with the law and that no one can call them tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103051	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103052	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I can tell you that I agree with you in this part of what you were saying about the review. So if you're talking about, of course, the difference is whether you have a financial service in the house, so in the company itself or someone outside doing that to you, that's why I advocate the option of reviewing. Of course, if you do not believe for some reason your accounting service or if there were problems, which in practice and in principle, of course you will seek review for yourself primarily as owner, as someone who is responsible both for criminal and financial matters and in any other way for his society. That's why I think the option for small entrepreneurs is what to go to. And when you talk about the responsibility of the auditor absolutely, I agree, so he can sign the report as he is but in the end he won't answer for it. And you agree with me, too, that 90 thousand kuna is the cost of an audit that is mandatory to one entrepreneur who has a total profit, 150 thousand kuna, and it's very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103053	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103054	Yeah, I think we're all here in this high house agreeing on some things. You can't define someone at a fixed rate if you impose something without that price being linked to some of their incomes or profits. But what's crucial about the review, I repeat, a large part of those people were on the monitoring boards and large and small companies. You adopt the findings of an auditor who, unlike members of the Supervisory Board, had all the documents on his hands. They are not members of the Supervisory Board, they do not decide, they do not participate in the decision-making process. And you get a report that says everything wonderfully and wonderfully to you, an evaluation of business decisions great, all wonderful and wonderful, and in the end tomorrow some kind of embezzlement is shown and because of some political attraction is responsible for some politician who is on the board of directors but the one who has received the money and whom this same policy has engaged indirectly to do business audits and to warn her if something is not good has no responsibility at all. And that's what's not good. And that's what we're going to be here, whether it's a man on the right or on the left, unfortunately shooting and accusing for some political reasons even though if you were on the Supervisory Board you know well that a bunch of these documents on which business decisions are made you never had a chance to see. But that's why what you said in your debate if we define that we have to pay so much and so much, then we're going to define that auditor's responsibility for what he wrote. And then if we throw in what counterpart Linic said we define accounting services, that not everyone can run business books because he can work on a computer and he has some sort of program installed, and it doesn't matter when you bring him some kind of document as to how it came to the document. It would be logical for him to warn you and ask how this document came about, whether you respected it and to protect you in such a way. But no, it happens with these accountants and the auditors to pay them but unfortunately they have no responsibility for what they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103055	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103056	I thank the esteemed vice president. You spoke of the auditor's responsibilities in the performance of your work or in the supervision of employers. When it comes to commercial audit, then unfortunately we have to admit that the auditors very often give in and you said, so they give in to entrepreneurs, and they are very often in a situation where they show their audit reports to the better than they really do the situation with entrepreneurs. If that wasn't the case, so if the auditors were really objective to the end, I believe that would happen so that entrepreneurs would break up contracts with them. So the auditors would be out of a job, it's not good to get along. And as far as I'm aware, I think the auditors are still paying insurance premiums for that if an entrepreneur sues them for their poor work to be paid out of those premiums, then they pay compensation. Now, the other thing is, I really don't know, but I think not enough entrepreneurs are using the possibility of suing auditors, or auditors, for not doing the job well, or for doing it badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103057	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103058	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Jelash, take the situation in which Croatia is located, take only possible VAT frauds for the reason that the obligation can occur here and there, depending on where the service is performed or anything. It is therefore important that when the auditor examines the documents at the beginning of these years, while Croatian entrepreneurs are still on certain things and even people who run their financial books do not get used to it until they have some experience of simply warning people. So I only took one little segment and if I paid you for something then I think what you wrote to me was that. Because in the end, for example, auditors should be more or less than most people involved in bookkeeping, except perhaps in some large corporations where people really are educated and passing various seminars both outside and in Croatia, etc. So auditors should be like some extra financial intelligence in Croatia and a logical thing if that's the case and if I pay you then I expect that what you wrote inside me is that. After all, if I don't agree with what you wrote to me, just write down that is my opinion and opinion and goodbye because in such a way they will get far more of those who will hire you than those who won't hire you because such is a small percentage that through their balance sheets they want to do something that, some kind of incompetence, has always been and will be. But that's why I repeat, with quality accounting-accounting services that will have certificates and clear conditions that they will do their job and as some kind of supervisory audit that will be hired by the company owner, I think the part where we talk about tax oversight will be much easier and far easier. However, when I spoke on behalf of the club, I mentioned some provisions that unfortunately do not go to this because they are undefined, they are wrongly placed. You can't say that an accounting document is done in one copy, it's something simply impossible. And you have to have it, and whoever has to pay for it must have it, so at least two copies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103059	And finally Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103060	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's the dilemma actually how deep to go in this final word, happy that it's only about first reading, it's really hard to answer all of these individual constructive proposals, and really here I don't remember when the debate was so constructive about the bill devoid of any political colour on all sides. Indeed, I thank all the speakers on behalf of the club and individuals for really trying to make their contribution to this law, and here is additional happiness that the bill itself goes in two readings and that there is plenty of time to work things out. ... was this when Mr. Schucker told me these 743000, it was my first objection and it just stings my eyes, and here's a colleague of Nikolai, who was the most responsible at the Ministry of Finance to write that bill, is the same... my question was that 100,000 euros, so what you didn't write 700 or 750 if we could round up but good. And this complaint of yours about, I forgot what the formulation is, it needs to be written in kunas of course, not in a currency that's accounted for in this, so we're going to make sure and make some changes until the second reading. I'm saying I started with these technical ones, but we'll think about these other ones more significantly. Here I come from Mr Linic's first presentation, many of you have repeated it and given more detailed formulating to who and how and how business bookkeeping can run the standards. I must admit that this law has opened the door in Article 7(4), that I am not reading it now, so defined by which the entrepreneur can perform accounting tasks and says that he must have among other things all the necessary resources, quality, efficient, thanks... to the conduct of jobs, professional education, experience, etc., etc. Whether to prescribe it in the law itself we were in a dilemma, so we'll see here from all these suggestions, maybe we can use the law to strengthen that story. We need to see in the Revision Act whether these things should be changed as well. One shift about it, according to the auditor's responsibility, is that this audit report, so far signed only by the auditor's representative, the legal representative, is now signed by the authorised auditor on that side, means the one who directly worked just the report and then.... There's a slight shift. Whether he's enough or not, by law and all the other rules, we can really talk about it. I said always we from the Government, especially when two readings are asked for a phonogram and based on it in the final line and by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament we must respond to each individual remark or proposal in the debate. Now we're really going to do it with great pleasure. Here I'd stick around, I say there's a series of constructive proposals that I don't speak any further, from language standards I say again technically, we're really going to change a lot of things. I also said we're about to see this report and Article 35(5), we're already ready to throw out. Maybe just for this last word to say something about these financial reporting standards, that is. about the date. If I'm not mistaken, my colleague Bubalo opened it first, and there was more debate. Yes, it was not particularly wise now to hand over to the FINA until 31.3. for statistical and public needs, and to the Tax Administration by 30.4. is not the happiest solution. That date will then be brought into line with the Profit Tax Act and placed on 31.3. Not only does this seem to sound technical, but the reality is that these reports differed by a total of 2 billion kunas, meaning something happened accountingly between 31.3. and 30.4. and so that this level of non-compliance has also offered us to amend the Tax on Profit Act to restore that obligation to make those reports also to be 31.3. Representative Jelash has said a lot about this indiscipline. Of course, there were no sanctions on that side unfortunately 20 thousand subjects were those who did not unfortunately teach the reports and we will be able to change that in this way. Anyway, if I don't waste too much of your time, they've got two more points. All your remarks, like I said, and it's not demagogy, we really understand the most well-meaning. We're going to talk to everyone individually within ourselves, within the profession, see what we can build into this law we're going to install into this law. What we need, and we must, and we evaluate that we need to install into some other laws, we will install into other laws to gain uniformity, in order to gain transparency. And this is just like counsel Shuker said primarily professional law. And thank God we don't even have political objections about such laws. Here I thank you all for your contribution and I believe that in the second reading, a significantly improved law with your help will receive your unanimous support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103061	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Proposed accounting law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 792. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions. 1. The draft accounting law is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103064	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on the lease and purchase of business premises regulates, among other things, the purchase of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the counties, cities, and units of local and regional self-government. The Government proposes amendments to the Law on the rental and purchase of business space in the first place in order to comply with the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia. By way of derogation from point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council. Following the takeover of these transactions, the existing legislative framework is not sufficient to regulate all lease relations that are within the jurisdiction of the State Office for State Property Management, which have so far been governed by the Law on the Rental and Sales of Business Space. The basic issues covered by the proposed amendments and additions are the conditions which the tenant must fulfil in order to qualify for the purchase of space owned by the Republic of Croatia. In the event that the borrower has failed to comply with the provision of Article 6(3), the criteria under which an extremely current user may purchase a business space in which he carries out the authorised activity have been regulated. The law on the lease and sale of a business space shall be communicated to the tenant who fulfils all the conditions of the offer for the conclusion of the contract. In principle, business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional or regional self-government and legal persons owned or owned by them are leased through a public tender. Exceptionally, the tenant who duly fulfils his obligations and uses the leaser's space shall be obliged to offer the conclusion of a lease contract no later than 40 days before the expiry of the period on which the contract is concluded unless it is required to carry out its activity. This provision does not derivate the ownership rights of the tenant. On the contrary, it is possible for it to rent space without a public tender and, in addition, not to lease that space if it is necessary for it to carry out its activities. Finally, here is the creditor of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of local and regional or regional self-government or a legal person in the bulk of their ownership or in full ownership so that the regulation of the legal relationship of use of the area is imperative in terms of quality management of that property, unlike unfortunately not rarely existing cases that this property is used without a contract, or without legal basis. This is exactly what we want to avoid, i.e. allowing the use of state or local space or ownership to have its economic purpose. Cases in which the Republic of Croatia did not regulate the lease relationship with the users of those premises which expired the previously concluded lease agreement, but which meet the obligations of the previous contract all the time and against which no procedure for eviction and transfer of business space has been initiated. The changes in the names of the authorised body for the management of state assets are therefore no longer an agency but the State Office for the Management of State Property. Finally, the proposed changes and additions to the lease and purchase of the business space allow for the full regulation of the lease relations and their registration, as well as the result of regular income on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103065	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103066	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy, I have two things that made me decide on a replica. One is that again here in chapter III. The assessment of the necessary funds is according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and since you are here proposing a law in front of the Ministry of Justice, then you should stick to a certain way of the law. It says that when proposing a law, the applicant must specify their fiscal impact whether it is in a plus or a minus. That's one thing. The second thing, I'm not a lawyer, so I'm wondering if all the contracts that DUDI has made since the time the agency was abolished, since this law has not been amended, whether they are valid or not, given that the agency is still standing in this law, and only by amending this law will the DUDI be. Did those who entered into a lease contract conclude those contracts with an institution that, under the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Business Space, did not exist, but was an agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103067	Thank you. Answer no? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103068	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for the deputy minister. Two words about the bill, since it's in the first reading, so perhaps with certain suggestions from our club, something might change. We accept the intensities of this bill, which is primarily that entrepreneurs who are regular in paying their liabilities under a leased relationship are given the possibility to extend the contract for an additional 5 years, regardless of whether it is the Republic of Croatia, the local or regional self-government unit. But in that case, we have one suggestion. For example, in most units of local self-government, the contract is concluded at 10 years. The contract is a good part of the base of the competition. So 10 years ago in the tenders the entrepreneur got a certain business space where there were far more interested, far more offers and the price of bidding was quite high. After 10 years, market conditions have changed. So let's be honest, as much as we're trying to help the entrepreneurs with the law here right now and give him five more years because he's been neat and we're not gonna help him because the rental prices are way down. So my suggestion is that, in the second reading, you try exactly that possibility that you now define through Article 2 or Article 33, you give the possibility that the unit of local self-government will correct the existing height of the market relationship at that time. I know that this is a very risky provision for a simple reason because it is no longer based on competitiveness and bidding, but we also try to understand that if we already want to help entrepreneurs, we should have the possibility that on some average games achieved in the last 5 months, we still give the unit of local self-government the opportunity to offer the entrepreneur a more correct price if we want to end up with that institute to help entrepreneurs not to go to the competition again. So, very simply, since contracts are good for 10 years in these 10 years are significantly changed market conditions, it's far less interested in renting business spaces and probably quoted prices 10 years ago are far above what this case is today, so if we're already going to 5 years of prolongation, let's give that freedom, however riskyly high-a-vis some corrupt options, but we have averages that these local self-government units are accomplishing in the last 5 months or 6 so we could be far, far more practical. So the suggestion is that we try to find a solution in that part. We also accept that the state is going to sell both business spaces and apartments so that we support the proposal that indeed the business premises of the Republic of Croatia offer to entrepreneurs for sale and that we do not have in fact I would say worry about our authorities dealing with business spaces throughout the Republic of Croatia. In that part, we wouldn't really have any suggestions. There's something else left, and the Republic of Croatia has a lot of undefined space that's staring empty, they're abandoned, they're derusting, and I actually think maybe we could take this opportunity and find a transitional period. And that means until we sell it to manage the local self-government unit and define 50% of the local self-government units, 50% of the state. Therefore, it would be much easier for me to discuss this bill if we had put it inside and how much state space there is, but listen, there is now a little more opportunity so I'm walking along the river, I don't want to talk about the business spaces of the Republic of Rijeka. An abandoned, abandoned, destroyed, and a garbage and evil gathering site. So the proposal would be until the moment of sale all the premises that the Republic of Croatia has and are not leased or contracted to the units of local self-government to do so and to recognise it eventually and to invest, and after deduction of investment to share the rent 50-50. In this way we will show great concern for the property, show that we believe in units of local self-government that will probably make it easier and assess for what purpose the business space can be used, I would say from my assets that it achieves on the basis of the rent income it may invest in business space and I would say that simply the RH is responsible for the management of its assets. So these are our two suggestions what to do now that we're starting with a bill like this, we're going to be effective to the end. We will support the proposal in our first reading and expect additional readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103069	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103070	Dear Linic, you have well stated this problem regarding units of local self-government, contracts that are up to 10 years old, but there should certainly be in mind that the circumstances of 5, 6, 7 years ago with a profound change in the self-function of those ten-year-olds of space, so craftsmen, entrepreneurs who carry out their activities in such a business. There are many units of local self-government, including mine, we've been making our own decisions to cut leases just to keep such craftsmen in those areas. And why not use that law to go according to that category, regardless of whether it was a lease of state space or owned by a local self-government unit. That I'm not saying this exactly as you mentioned the spaces that are definitely staring blank, which even the state doesn't even know are theirs, which units of local self-government filed requests several years ago by setting up DUDI, all these demands are standing out there somewhere that these local self-government units haven't been informed at all that these items aren't being solved. So, such spaces as you mentioned in Rijeka, but also throughout Croatia stand empty because someone is not doing their job, and I am not saying that this DUDI Act was passed in 2013, all of 2014, so few changes to this law were not possible and I welcome what at least in two readings is not an emergency procedure for all these elements to be installed there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103071	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103072	I agree that the units of local self-government were following, I would say the deterioration of the situation in the economy and that they regulated through certain reductions but all these decisions were based on principles. Therefore, you brought them not individually. And since these contracts have been negotiated individually, there are probably entrepreneurs who have marked extremely, I remember well the cases and the equivalent of 100 euros for a square meter of space, so I'm going when this is a law that goes individually towards each, that we still have the freedom to give local self-government units and the state the opportunity to assess what happened with each entrepreneur and then maybe, as part of previous decisions on principled reductions, adapt the contract and give that possibility to change the price if someone hasn't already blended in with some earlier principles. And in this second act, we really would have to take away our responsibility. That we weren't responsible enough for asset management. Indeed, there is a lot of space that is not in function and I estimate that DUUDI will indeed deal with all possible properties in the Republic of Croatia that has not put into operation, a space that is truly devastated leaves to local self-government units if it is not already going to sell or sell to sort of put it into service as soon as possible. And I think a common DUDI that represents the Republic of Croatia with units of local self-government can give a much greater effect than if it still does DUUDI because it will last a few years again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103073	Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103074	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Linić, I absolutely agree with you about business space especially in local self-government units. It's just that I'd also be glad to have very specific or we'll have time, given that this is the first reading to find a possible way to break such a 10-year contract, how to lower the cost of renting a business space without someone accusing you of befitting someone. So, just very concrete how and how to install it into legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103075	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103076	It's actually very simple, you have an article that you're obliged to offer a five-year extension if someone was neat. This is the first quality of this proposal, the second that the price can be adjusted to market conditions at the time of conclusion of this extension of the contract. And let's face it, the local self-government units have given their general principles that opportunity, but maybe someone didn't get into it. So we're just giving the possibility to base a general provision and a series of I would say the economic policies that units of local self-government in part of the business space have brought so far, put it in a position, but only to allow that price to be corrected if possibly so far the general principles are not reduced. It's just something we have to believe. And listen, I wouldn't talk about whether we're going to be subject to suspicions of bribery, corruption and interrogations now. Everyone will be responsible for their actions but I believe that individual freedom in that part of the local self-government units should be held.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103077	Vice President Milorad Batinic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103078	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In principle, my colleague Linic agrees with most of what you have suggested, i.e. through your debate, but just as colleagues in their replicas have expressed a certain level of concern about how in practice to carry out an extension of the lease so that it would not be real, so that someone today or the mayor or mayor would not have been knocked on the door to paint it. So this should certainly be considered and found a model that would be acceptable and, of course, in accordance with the law. And I agree in the part where you say maybe, I'll try to define less valuable properties, maybe I should already give DUUDI to the management of local self-government units of course that have the capacity and resources to do it or the counties, to manage whether they sell, of course, everything in cooperation with DUDI. I believe that many of the properties that are unfortunately abandoned today would be either in function or in function or have a particular purpose. Of course it's one large part of these intentions is defined through a management strategy but I believe that it may also be possible with certain impediment to legislation and that part to express myself operationalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103079	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103080	So let's be honest, I come to give a little more opportunity to the leaders of the local self-government units that they can establish something on the basis of some criteria but also on their own, because more or less space always goes to bidding and I come to a reduction that is already the decision of the unit leader of local self-government or possibly representative bodies. But again it's their policy, it's not, I'd say a free bid, it's not a game of competition. And you're leaving why? Well, because the contract lasts 10 years and over the past 10 years, we've seen the situation change in the economy. And I think every leader must have his own responsibility and not be afraid of that responsibility. Therefore, we give them that possibility and let those who fear do not make decisions, but they will have those who have no fear that if they are already going to extend for 5 years we cannot extend it by what he is... 10 years ago, if it wasn't for general standards, it'd cut it down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the purpose of the law isn't achieved if you understand me. We are all aware that the economic situation has changed. So much for that part. And listen, in this second part, I think that by law we should determine that the unit of local self-government is the one that takes care of space. And be assured the chief will take care if we legally empower him and what waits for 2 years of DUDI is, and the answer from DUDI is our problem, but it won't change. That's why I say in this proposal we find that space can be managed by the city until it becomes operational and that we define division 50:50, be assured that the mayors will immediately go to work and the mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103081	A colleague, Damir Cain, is not present, so the Independent Representatives Club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103082	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. In the last 25 years, this is who knows what kind of change to rent a business space owned by a state at any level. We in the CNS hope that this law will be more concrete and efficient and will benefit primarily those entities that use it and thus benefit citizens and society as a whole. For years in the former state of craftsmen were practically the only private activity allowed either in their own inherited or in most so-called. social space. Only the lucky ones were able to reach them through relationships, mostly through relationships. With the establishment of an independent Croatia and the transition from communism to capitalism, hunger for personal entrepreneurship and work areas has become enormous. The state has been trying to help citizens but has not been able to solve the problems of leases and the purchase of state-owned space at any level today. At the very beginning there were huge problems as a result of turning social property into state property where the privatisation process led to the robbery and illegal acquisition of factories, various commercial companies and the business premises of epic proportions. These problems then arise today, and it seems, will be solved for decades. At the local level, local municipalities and cities were able to make excellent money or win local elections at the very least. It has been a mass attempt to squirm and the more favourable it is to come up with such important things as work, activity, and officials and officials who participated in the process have used their position for various blackmails, unfounded wealth for corruption. With a clearly long fence for those rare who didn't deal with the team and such marifettelus. Still being in a period... endeavoured to further regulate legislation providing for the sale of commercial premises owned primarily by the central state because the state is simply not a renter to deal with the business of renting business premises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was predicted that the first-bought premises were sold to long-term employees. And this attempt, like three or four more of these attempts, has failed in an infamous manner except perhaps in a few isolated, unknown, and non-transparent cases. It is important, among other things, that if the state is at any level possible to sell its property to the tenants they have been using neatly for many years. In fact, ownership of real estate allows significant development of every small and medium-sized enterprise because an entrepreneur, if the owner is able to pawn the property and borrow credit in terms of improving business or expanding activity. It is never enough to talk to us today about the importance of private, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship because in Croatia there is still an extremely strong enmity in the face of private initiatives, entrepreneurship and wealth through entrepreneurship. And all the modernity, all the progress, and always today, comes from private initiative, private creativity, the private courage of engaging in the adventure of creation and entrepreneurship. In a small country such as Croatia, a significant number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is needed. It's hard to be unfair, I'd even say unworthy that we only have a hundred big entrepreneurs that we all work for. The Croatian state and Croatian society must get the strength to establish, launch and simply export 35% of small and medium-sized private entrepreneurs. This is a large percentage compared to many other European Union countries but is necessary for real development and for changing the paradigm of economic development of Croatia. This aims to drive a number of resources, changing both political and economic and fatal and educational and overall social climates. This also changes the overall habits of society, changes the economic mentality, mobilises both resources and numerous other resources of the state, as well as with the assistance of the European Union's funds and other resources. And many, small and medium private entrepreneurship is the greatest guarantee of every individual's freedom. Private entrepreneurship creates and raises awareness of citizens and thus the entire society. The state is necessary to encourage the creation of small and medium-sized private entrepreneurship through its mechanisms and even more important in establishing and ensuring equal in the same starting positions of a free competition. The development of small private and medium-sized entrepreneurship in all branches of human activity is the son of quanton of the true development of the Republic of Croatia. One of the most important elements of assistance and the establishment of entrepreneurship is the availability of business spaces. In any event, the State may assist entrepreneurs' initiatives to establish or expand economic activity. These proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the hire and purchase of business space, as already stated, regulates the handling of the case of the renter’s failure to deliver to the tenant who meets the conditions of the tender for the conclusion of a new lease agreement. The terms and conditions to be met by the tenant in order to obtain the right to purchase a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by cases in which the Republic of Croatia has failed to regulate the lease relationship between the users of those premises which have expired the previously concluded lease contract but which meet the obligations of that previous contract and which are not subject to the discharge procedure and the transfer of the business space. The proposed amendments and additions will allow for the full regulation of lease relations for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional or regional self-government, and establish criteria and procedures for the sale of these premises. In fact, through many decades of various ways of assigning space, various signatures or non-signatures of the contract, mislegislation has been created a variety of legal, semi-legal, illegal relationships that tell their own story and cannot and cannot be solved by a uniform paragraph. There's a case from the past where, for example, the public tender granted space to the entrepreneur and did not undertake it or was contracted the amount of the lease payment. After 20 years he came to power from another political option and wants to regulate relations. Or after 10 years of initial lease, the owner of the crafts, the father, died, and the daughter, for objective reasons, changed the crafts for example. from the blacksmithy to the tailoring shop and adapted the space without the adaptation being reported. After a few years, the new city administration is suing her for emigration. Either the city or the municipality awarded a space not owned by it but owned by the Republic of Croatia in a public tender. On the basis of a document on the allocation of space and from the city or municipality of the minimum technical conditions, the entrepreneur has invested considerable resources in the planning of the space and, after some time, no contract can be signed. The ownership of the city or municipality is taken away, and then the state asks the entrepreneurs to move out of the already well-paid space. Not to mention a number of entrepreneurs working in areas where they do not have an extension of contracts for which they pay or do not pay a rent for which they have no solution or decision. In the HNS, we consider the proposal to amend and supplement this law to be a valuable initiative, but it seems to us that until the second reading should be covered and included in the law and some other forms of unresolved relations between the tenant of the State and the tenant. We also believe that it is necessary to simplify and speed up the possibility of buying out state-owned business space so that long-term leases can enter into ownership, thereby increasing the value of their crafts or businesses so as to make it easier for credit funds to develop their activities. The Central State should not, in our opinion, be an entrepreneur or a renter and should be dealt with and placed for the purpose of all its premises, which clearly does not mean that the state should not encourage units of local self-government to encourage both business areas and business premises for sale and rental, and in order to further develop municipalities and cities and to continuously encourage private entrepreneurship development. It seems to me that, in the near future, we will all need much more and more courage and determination if we want to move more significantly towards a more rapid development of entrepreneurship and thus a common society in the Republic of Croatia. The HNS Club, the Liberal Democrats, will support the above-mentioned draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103083	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103084	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister. Since the first reading is not going to be long, but I have a few questions that I haven't found the answer to in this material, and first of all I'm going to start with your opening presentation. It is therefore said in Article 1 that the area already leased, so the leaser is the State of Croatia and the tenant is a private natural or legal person, that within 60 days before the end of the contract, the State will inform the tenant of the offer for the new 5 years of the contract, unless it needs that business space to carry out its activity. So I'm asking here and here so that it might possibly be complemented, if the state needs space to carry out some of its activities, when they're going to inform the tenant about it. How many days ago, because to move someone out of the space they've been enjoying for 5 or 10 years, I don't know how long, and to move out, find another space, it certainly takes some reasonable time to move their own crafts, anything else that's why they're leased in a state-owned space. So it doesn't say here, so I'm asking you to check it out, even though you're having trouble with the cell phone you're typing on, but okay. So that's the first question. Secondly, when this DUUDI with two in or how I like the state in the country to say what would be a full name, and not the State Office for State Property Management will finally call, so the tender for all the empty spaces that the state of Croatia has so many, and there are so many since state institutions and agencies live, work and work in the premises that they have rented from private or some other legal entities. When will we know the ratio of how many state institutions, ministries, agencies, institutions, offices, etc. in the lease of private or legal persons, other persons who do not use the state space that exists on the list of state assets. Are we going to know how many squares of business or living space the State Office has at its disposal? And when it's to be called, it's to be prescribed and a deadline in which they place these empty spaces in the possession of the state. A colleague, Linic, mentioned here the possibility of these empty spaces being placed in the management, so temporarily to the units of local self-government. Well, look, I didn't want to replicate to him since we have another agenda point and I don't argue too much here. So look at these business spaces in the city, let's start from the city of Zagreb, not to mention my Slavonski Brod where the unit of local self-government, the town of Slavonski Brod or the town of Zagreb owns business spaces. Take a look at Zvonimir Street in Zagreb, take a walk on Zvonimir Street, which is practically in the center of Zagreb and is not all empty spaces owned by the state of Croatia. It is not true, they are owned by the city of Zagreb. And believe me, every other place that could be a place, but it's in function, and every other one is completely empty, abandoned, unclean, unwashed windows, the mockery of the city of Zagreb. And now you are going to give state space to the city of Zagreb which anyway has extra of such empty spaces and cannot rent them to anyone precisely because of the situation of economic and financial in the state of Croatia where this small and medium entrepreneurship is also in crisis as the whole society. It is said here that even price adjustments in those who enjoy, i.e. rents in local self-government units up to 10 years may also help to extend the lease, to correct lease prices during those 10 years in view of the situation in society. If you have 10 years ago there were 5 bakerys in Slavonski Brod, today there are 50, it is quite certain that there are other conditions of business when this competition is higher. Or if you do not know the hairdresser any 10, and now there are 100 in Slavonski Brod, without talking about Zagreb that the prices of renting the business space may be different. Maybe it's a good idea, unless we renegotiate certain suspicions of guessing that we're giving business spaces at a lower price, etc. However, I would like to find a way to place these premises in office regardless of whether they are owned by units of local administration or owned by the Republic of Croatia. What I would say, and it concerns this State Office for State Property Management, is that there is another situation in which our healthy companies, including those that are in the majority ownership of the state, companies go into the hands of natural persons and so that DUDI and CERRP, so the Center for restructuring and sale give shares of these healthy companies such as RIZ and some others can also tell private persons here, and in exchange for compensation for the seized assets during the Yugoslav communist regime. I'll bring you, if the government doesn't know and maybe they don't know who should know, and that's also the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, what millions of healthy companies are in the form of shares to give to these people. Is there any other way other than to put these healthy companies in practice on the drum of people who have nothing to do with it, they are neither interested in Djuru Djakovic nor in the RIZ, nor in the hotel settlements that are given, and they are owned by Croatian private persons. That's terrible! I don't think there's enough information about this, and I don't think there's enough information for us for CERRP and DUDI, this State Office for State Property Management. What we heard, and in the EPP that DOUDI gave in some daily newspaper that I don't know about 30 million kunas of DOUDI earned. I wonder what rooms Duudi's moving to now? So they say he's moving DUUDI, so the State Office for State Property Management into the rented premises. There's a good example of this bill. That's a great example, that's great! There! So what do we do now? Who's gonna pay and extend the contracts to for five years? What if after five years the guy who's a co-counsel says go now, I need that space. Well, DUUDY can move to some other space. He won't. Yeah, it's a good lease, so it's not like the IRS in Slavonski Brod in a good place so they won't move in with a private. And so a number of other tenants, and the best thing is when your country's a tenant, it's the law. There's no better tenant than the state. Instead of worrying about it and discussing it, here we are discussing how we will put these areas managed by the State Office of State Property into office, in which way the legal regulations and still are state agencies, state offices, seductions, and I don't know what kind of advice and I don't know how they don't exactly call each other live or are leased to private persons or legal persons. So they work and live in places that aren't stately. Until we sort it out, until we in the state sweep our own backyard and until the interests of the state are primary, not those who, as privates, rent, so let's watch where some of the premises of the Croatian lottery, this club as it is called the Fortuna, as if I don't know what it's called. In whose rooms is Fortuna Club, the night club of the Croatian lottery? And how much rent does Croatia's lottery give for these premises, down here in the extension of Vlaška street what's it called? I know, and you ask around. I also know what the lease is, and I know who buys the butter or the cream, whatever you want. ... Well, I don't know everything, but I know, some things I know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what to say about this law in the first draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space in the First Reading, we can also accept it and we can immediately say the second reading that we will accept but I don't think it will help much in this problem that I've just been talking about. Those who should take care of the public and they care more about the private, and that's the problem. It's the only problem, and nothing else. And this law doesn't work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103085	Thank you. We have one replica, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I couldn't agree with you in the part where you said that the state doesn't care well about business space and that many agencies, ministries and general state use a space that has enough state space. It's both casual and ominous as you say, and I know on one example the specific Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environmental Protection Fund that was at several locations and clearly that they couldn't function normally. The media's been doing it, they've been saying things about the office, I'm not going to name who now, and then when I was in that office and that space, it's been seen that it actually makes absolutely sense. By the fact that the office of that concerned minister was truly more than modest. Let's let what the press is writing, and the more often the public doesn't know what it's about. That's why I'm saying this is just like you said. The state must have a lot of real estate. Whether they're adequate for the functioning of the ministry, of certain funds or of the DUDI, I don't think you can evaluate it like this without enough information. But I agree with the other one with you, that it's a shame to walk on the Bell but also on Ilica and see that every other place is empty. There's something to be done, if legally. And as head of the local self-government unit, I know what the problem is. And here's a colleague and colleagues here who got involved in the debate, and you, Mr. Vice President, know how many times you've made a competition and that no one's called you in to rent space. It's happened to me more than once. What do we do legally so that we can give the competition a second or third time and reduce the minimum rent of that space? I'm sure for every unit of local self-government, it's better to get a single kuna from renting space, and then it's settled over taxes, income and everything than it's ever been rented. Here's my short time, so that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103087	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103088	Thank you very much, colleague Prelec, on the replica. So this understanding of your luxury may not be the same as mine. You realize that jacuzzi when it's not a luxury, I think it's a luxury, I shower just never bathe in a hot tub and I'm as clean and I smell like a minister who... Okay, that's what you say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But is it true that there was state-owned space that the ministry could move in? No, it's a subjective assessment of the minister who decided that. And that's a fact. A minister who has no will, no desire, no idea what state he's in, nor does Mr. Prime Minister. So his pipe broke and the sea appeared in Gunya, and his pipe broke in the kitchen. It's this relationship that's missing from those people who run the country. And let me tell you when you're from a place where I don't know which mayor or mayor who municipalities that the Croatian property is inn, to tell you that a gentleman from your neighborhood has received 151 shares of Geophysics, 132 shares of TOZ pen, 366 shares of the RIZ transmitter, 1216 shares of Darda PIK Belje, 352 shares of Đuro Đaković holding and that I'm not counting any further. This is how the Croatian property inn works, this is how it disintegrates but also destroys what is healthy in Croatia, which is why we now have that 11% increase in exports and which is why we have 0.3% increase in GDP. That's how it's done, and that's how these factories and these companies that are now healthy are going to get sick and go bankrupt or pre-determined. It's sad, and the man from your neighborhood can tell you the name and last name I have on my phone... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103089	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103090	Dear Vice-President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we welcome, in any case, the adoption of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Buying of Business Space. We think it would be high time to move towards making these changes since it's already DUUDI oho, ho time in function from its very establishment. What my previous colleagues mentioned before me especially in the part of Mr Linic, who referred to the units of local and regional self-government in all the space that is owned by the state, and by the small part of the unit of local self-government, because those where and where they take more care of their own space, they also have complete registers of their entire space and know what they have. At this point, what is really questionable now is that units of local self-government have concluded contracts for a far longer number of years than is prescribed by this proposal for these five years. Why not 10 or why not less, more or let the units of local self-government decide how to dispose of their own program on their own ground. There is also one thing that has been mentioned here that concerns how much this price will be, the fact that we now live in one, may be an ugly word of crazy time when those who make decisions on the ground and those below and, by their order, have to question themselves hundreds of times in some way and what all of them can do in the course of the procedure and in the later period wait for them not to answer for something. I think in this section that applies to the lease itself, because here and in the existing law it does not change, it provides for the possibility of extending the lease or the initial price in the tender, the price that was at the moment with the previous tenant. I think that we really need to adapt to the situation and the market in which we live because we are witnessing ourselves that many craftsmen, many entrepreneurs are barely ending the end, and I think it is much more important to continue their activities, with our business, and even if this price affords him some kind of reduction, that is, a correction of the price itself during the lease period because it is a really long time period of 5 or the units of local self-government that they have made for 10 years. Why not lay down a provision for this initial price to be some sort of assessment of a court witch which the local self-government units otherwise use in many of the things that precede the publication of competitions. I'm going to look back a little bit on DUUDI's actions over the past period. So, in contact with the number of colleagues, not only in my county but throughout Croatia, one major problem is expressed first in that section relating to the country's entry into property and land, and the facilities that were in the unit of local self-government until 93, owned by municipalities and cities, and according to that regulation, the state's attorney has duly registered in the ownership of Croatia's land or such facilities which were until then a valid spatial plan outside the construction area up to 91. In this way, many places in particular in the business areas were burned, they belonged to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, then to the management of the agency now state office, and there is a problem of donation, i.e. the purchase of that land from the Republic of Croatia where the tremendously long time-limits, that we do not talk running and running for the sleeve and supplementing the documentation that has always been in the composition and ownership of local self-government units have been restored and placed in some function. We are also witnessing numerous military facilities and other all in the area and coastal areas, but also throughout Croatia that are not being maintained, which are destroyed, which simply do not have any functions. So hypothetically, the question can be asked whether this object is given to someone and to a kuna symbolically and to put it into function and to train it would be for state, cities, municipalities and counties much more useful than this situation that they are currently in. One example of a city with 7 cultural homes, 6 cultural homes were registered according to land books as the property of the local communities at the time, one of the cultural homes in that city was registered as the property of the Socialist Union of the working people of the Republic of Croatia, the legal successor of the working people of Yugoslavia, the legal successor of the Republic of Croatia, the state attorney's office registered such facilities to the Republic of Croatia. A paradoxical situation, specifically the House of Culture in Krasica. During AUDI, a request was submitted for the return, i.e. the assignment of that space to the city, was resolved for years, after which, and now on the DUDI's request, the answer was provided that the documentation was lost and that all documents were re-supplyed. In order for the absurd to be greater when the documentation was delivered they asked for the assessment of the court's expert, after an assessment of the court's experts hired by the local self-government units that they had to report it with their judicial expert, after the paid-out skill again comes a new expert who is an expert for the DUDI to eventually still make that home of culture in a ruinous state, the local self-government unit cannot go into its restoration even though it has all the projects finished, stares blank and threatens to collapse. Such objects and such examples in Croatia are not going to say thousands, but hundreds of people in every city and municipality have some of those cases, and we definitely have to solve it. We have situations that local self-government leaders, just like this, in the way the law has been passed lately by an emergency procedure with frequent changes, changes. We have huge problems, and with contacts with investors, we are all aware of it, they have no security to invest the code on, we have no security on the ground to make decisions, we have already talked about it, and we are caught up in that decision and control over all units of local and regional self-government is far greater than various state agencies of DUDI or I don't know what's going on with us. Anyway, here, I'd like you to respect these remarks and everything you've heard. Until the second reading you and accept the amendments that apply to this matter. And the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the bill in this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103091	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Klaric, you mentioned military facilities and the role of DUDI in solving these military facilities, here I am a witness in my midst that the government made a decision many years ago on the violation of the former Croatian Army home to the unit of local self-government and to this day it is not resolved. Although we have respected all these procedures that you have mentioned, it means the evaluation and resolution of property legal relations, the unification of particles, the booklet of the Republic of Croatia on this land etc.. But it's really a trom, a trom, and an inefficient system when it comes to local self-government units, at least it's my practice. So I'm not gonna say people don't do anything, they're obviously too small to handle all these demands. But the fact is, business isn't done with the dynamics of what the requirements of the field are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103093	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103094	Here's a colleague of the Box just to confirm what you're talking about, I'm going to give a banana example. In the business zone, a private investor bought plots of 4000 square meters. Within that land is a small 640 - square - square particle, which is listed in land books as a tank trench. The procedure for obtaining this from that investor must ask the Department of Defense if it's military perspective, I don't know what kind of object, if they need that tank trench. After months of running and lobbying by the local self-government unit through the Ministry of Defence to speed it up goes towards the state and it sets the price. The price is three times higher for the tank trench than the investor paid for all the several thousand squares of land and, meanwhile, invested or invested funds in project documentation to build a production plant in the area, and it extended to almost two years. I mean, we're dragging ourselves in, we're saying we don't have investments, we don't open jobs, the state is in crisis, and things like this happen to us most permanently that we're talking about here very little. We'll talk more here, I don't know about '45, '50, '80. I don't know what, not about the current situation, about the current problem of how the law solves it so that it allows whoever makes the decisions to make the decision quickly and efficiently and that no one therefore moves it later on for the ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103095	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, I'd like to point out once again what you said and it's primarily about the variety of problems. It's so many different problems, they're not today, they're from the beginning of Croatia to the day of today, and they're so many different that it's practically impossible by a uniform law to solve it. We need to find an instrument where either one institution or one person or at a local level or at a state level but one institute that will allow someone to solve finally and various problems that are from this trench to one of the most common small places that has been, which the municipality or city has adopted and not owned by the municipality but is the state and now the state is suddenly using its right of ownership over that place and forcing that person who may have invested in it and I don't know what it is, or lived one of their different lives. I mean, it's not a simple problem, the problem is terribly complex, it's terribly layered but it's important, it's important for all of us, it's important for all of us, it's important for all of the citizens because of the simple purity of thought, that you can think clearly, that you can communicate normally with all of these things that have been solved, namely unsettled things create huge problems and doubts both in the country and in all of us individually in these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103097	Thank you. Answer, colleague Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103098	A colleague Blažeković situation as complex as it may seem, it is actually very simple, it comes down to two words of benefit, whether the benefit or damage of what the object is staring at us is empty and which has not been resolved its status in terms of putting into office in one way or one way or the benefit greater for the state that someone, a unit of local self-government, investors, entrepreneurs, elaborated, elaborated their project through the physibilities of the study or already how you want to call it and that someone here at the top who decides about it recognizes the part of the interest of the Republic of Croatia that in this sense is huge. We all live on that state budget, we all live off that entrepreneur who will pay his employee a salary, which will pay the state a tax, a unit of local self-government communal compensation and everything that belongs to him. That's what we're interested in. If the object stands empty he is no one's interest and he is a complex problem. Put that object into operation, if we have a model to give the investor the opportunity to go into that investment in a short time, and he backs it up with all the documentation we ask for and prescribe that he must have it, through a feasibility study of justification, then I think the problem is very simple. So it comes down to two words damage benefit. In my view, the greater benefit for the state if something is in place, the state pays its, the local self-government unit, and normally the one that enters such an object has to think about its own interest otherwise there's no point in investing. The problem is simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103099	Thank you. Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Klaric, I have to say that really in a lot of the things that you've brought out here in the debate, I agree, and that's probably because you're the head of the local self-government unit and I know what the problems are. One of these problems you listed is the price correction after a certain invitation to tender. I have to say that I also have problems in my local self-government unit and I know that 10 years now in this law if we put rent at some price, after 5 years clearly it can be completely different economic conditions and there should be a price adjustment. But how to protect the leaders of local self-government units from saying, and now they tell us that we're sheriffs, that we're doing something, that we simply avoid guessing and doubting a guess. That's the right word for how to just legally disable it so someone can doubt us, and we want to do it right. Because the worst thing is if an entrepreneur comes out of business space, it's the worst thing, it's to let us cut the rent without guessing. And one other thing, you were saying the same thing about '93. When the state took it from us and we didn't report in time, it took away the building land and the agricultural land, and today the building land is empty. What to do with it, and whether the unit of local self-government and I'm sure everyone is in the interest, and clearly they have less obligations than DUDI who has thousands of demands, how to take over these very building areas and let simply any entrepreneurial activity be made there. Building empty zone, construction area inactive and not good for the state or local self-government unit. Here we should make a joint initiative and make here the leaders of the units of the local self-government proposal, whether on the left or right, a constructive proposal and simply try to solve such things which are a burning and big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103101	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103102	The essence of your problem, my problem and the 558 problems in the Republic of Croatia is the inability to make concrete and real decisions because we are being held back, our hands are tied. They're primarily tied to our suspicions. And here I hear it from our colleagues, that all the leaders of the local self-government unit, I guess I don't know what. And now that we're looking at whether the greater benefit of a local self-government unit is doing some kind of activity in it and working on five people so that the local self-government units are symbolic of 1 kuna or that they can't pay rent because someone prescribed some kind of price, so the space is abandoned, empty and collapsed. I'm far more interested in someone working inside, earning their salary, no social welfare, no state budget donations to his family that he can..., there is no unit of local self-government to pay for his children's food or kindergarten and we solve problems that way. What you're talking about is for me, for you, for every one of us who make these decisions every day, especially in this system when someone remembers and writes an anonymous application because there's a little less hair on your forehead, so I guess somebody's gonna be looking into you for that. I think we've become our own purpose, and we've been doing something about how to do something, and someone's always asking us for reasons and models to do it anyway. Thus, the state does not run any units of local self-government or cities, due to only a few changes in the cases of those who are so and who may need what counterpart Boro might say to tie his hands into a knot. I mean, problems are identical in all of Croatia, in all cities, no matter what size the municipalities or cities are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103103	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103104	Thank you very much. A colleague Klaric, you may remember a former minister and vice-president of the government who hit a job with a Vukovar lawyer who represented the citizens of the apartments in Vukovar and won a dispute against the state of Croatia, and the state of Croatia had to give him legal expenses at one of his clients several million. So he made a deal with a lawyer that the state of Croatia gave him a million kuna instead of 5 million kuna. And what happened? He went to jail. Mr. Polancec, for this reason, was judged and convicted because he should not have done so. Saving the state 4 million kuna doesn't interest anyone. It's a very interesting phenomenon, but I didn't want to say it either, so someone didn't get it wrong. I was going to say that out of your presentation, and even my colleagues, it seems to me like DUUDI is making life a lot worse for local self-government units, for you leaders in local self-government. It's as if they're from someone else on purpose or they're bound by someone else, so he can't, that leader of DUUDI does so on his own, so to untangle that problem, that knot that exists with you in a relationship. We have Mimoz in Djakova, a building called Mimoza, not a flower of mimosa, but a building that has not been solved for 20-30 years, and on the other hand we have a case in the village of Gornja Andrijavci and in Sibinj where the state generously donates, beware of this, generously donates but in square meters of land for the entrepreneurial zone. So to whom He bestows gifts, to the municipality of the Lower Andrians. Well, that's her country on her territory, which is '93. years put in a government portfolio. She donates now, you watch the state donates to the community, it's a newspaper writing, it's the media, it's the cameras, it's a terrible thing. That's amazing. It would be much better if he gave this as you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103105	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103106	Comrade Grubisic, what you have said is a concrete example. A concrete example that's been going on right in the last 10 days. We've got a 350 million kuna investor, we've got a calculated municipal contribution of 10 million and 651 kuna. That same investor wants a six-month delay and offers a 7% interest so, 400 thousand kuna up there. So the local self-government unit will charge 11 million kuna six months later than its solution... Lawyers in that local self-government unit find a model that can't be done because it's against the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact is, since the amount is more than one million kuna, it has to convene a session of the City Council. At that session, the City Council must discuss the investor, according to the newspaper. I mean, what kind of partner relationship is that? You've got a $350 million investor, you've got a communal fee, you've got a communal contribution to bill, you've got a charge, and he's offering you a 7% interest. No, he can't. The City Council's decision needs to be changed. What are we talking about? Who's gonna come down here and invest? And this is what you've said to the case of a lawyer or not a lawyer. Well, I guess you can tell if Boro bought the Mercedes. Boro, what did you pay for it? Money's not ice, so it'll melt. I mean, these things are very simple, but we only complicate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103107	Thank you. Final Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only if I could point out that this is a law that regulates the lease and the sale of business space. This law could therefore be considered procedural in a certain sense. It does not contain these measuring answers to the questions, the metrics you were talking about. It is more concerned with the Law on Management and Property owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, through this law, we can't come up with these solutions that you've asked here as a question, and I don't think that any law will actually solve what's very apostrophe here, which is that, therefore, we get rid of the responsibility in the management of the property that's in our possession, regardless of whether it's state property or ownership of a unit of local or regional self-government. Therefore, management powers are required to manage in terms of full responsibility during that management. For that there are mechanisms called market price and that was actually the goal that we wanted to install here. If, of course, we can have some improvements, however, until the second reading, all suggestions will be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103109	Thank you. We have one replica. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103110	Your Honor, I don't know if you've got it all wrong. No one here is afraid of responsibility. Responsibilities, however, but to enable the tools to make decisions that are made legal, but also to be in the interest of speeding up the implementation of projects, are in the interest of future incomes and states and units of local self-government. Because the way things are now, there are very weak tools. And that responsibility that we are all aware goes in the direction that many who make decisions are afraid to make a decision and that's the problem. We're not afraid of responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103111	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103112	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, first reading, P.Z. No. 793. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the lease and sale of business space is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion was reached with 96 votes in favour, four abstentions and two against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103113	We continue with - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages, with a final proposal for law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 794. I thank the Deputy Minister. Deputy, thank you. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. We have Božidar Stubelj, Deputy Minister of Labour with Associates. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the Pension Insurance Act exists when the insurance company does not result in a loss of more significant damage, so the conditions are defined, then the causes are arranged which reduce or lose the work ability of the insurance company or reduce it, therefore as a result of injury to work or professional illness by a type of physical impairment. The adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities established the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Within that institution, an organisational unit of the institute is established, i.e. a single body of art acting in accordance with that law. The law on a single body of art and in accordance with the Regulation on methods of art. The abovementioned Regulation on art methodologies which entered into force on 1 January 2015 has been regulated in a unique manner and an artisan procedure for the exercise of rights in all areas where the rights are exercised on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art and thus the articulation and determination of damage to the organism of physical damage. The following is proposed to suspend the law on the list of physical damage starting from 1 January 2015, i.e. as from the date of application of the Regulation on the methods of skills to be followed by the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and to provide findings on physical damages for the needs of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which will decide on a solution to the right and compensation for physical damage. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 1. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues listed in the Croatian Parliament's section of the Regulation on the termination of the Law on the list of bodily damages, suggests the termination of that Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103115	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have one replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103116	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would like to take immediate advantage of your presence at the beginning of the opportunity, so that perhaps my and the following discussions may go in this direction, to provide detailed information when the work will really begin with the institution, or the unique body with the skills. Formal-legal preconditions have known each other and created themselves and surely formally-lawfully we see that there is an institution and a systemization to know which... how the unit will be organized. However, this is not the beginning of work, the beginning of work is when really taken into the process of persons in a state of social risk and when opinions are brought, which is also the purpose and purpose of this unique artificial body. In fact, information from the field suggests that all the skills obligations have fallen to the district offices of the Pension Insurance Office, which some of them have, and because of their own skillful needs, have not been sufficiently professionally and administratively teamed, and this will certainly not be able to meet this need.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103117	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103118	Namely, the Institute of Art and Rehabilitation began working with January 1st this year. A handover has been made and it is normal for the field offices to begin with skills since it is a first-degree settlement in art cases. So there are likely to be some delays but they are not the consequence of the transition from retirement to an office but are the consequences of the volume of work that has been undertaken since, in addition to medical skills, the expanded work to others. So, for both social and other cases in which art is needed. And in that it was the purpose of establishing an institution and regulation because we have a lot of changes, especially in the field of protection at work, and I would say the injuries that occur there, that we need to monitor dynamically all the injuries, all the skills, and that way I would say according to what's happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103119	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103120	Once again, I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, assistant, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages is adopted as set out in the introduction to allow for skills in the field of pension insurance. And certainly this is a logical sequence after the adoption of the Law on the Single Body of Art, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the adoption of a Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a unique methodology for artificialry. So we can say that it is actually a matter of technical harmonisation of different legal rules, and that could also end any debate, and this one, and also that it is mandatory whether or not we agree with this law, I don't think that this law that has two points really needs to be created by any kind of problem and the HDZ club will support it. However, there are too many problems related to this problem that I have cited and pointed out in this replica, and I want to take the opportunity to talk about it once again, regardless of what I see in the debates, there is also a point on the agenda when there will be not too much or too much of an interested public. However, we think that this really is an important problem, an important area, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to talk about it. It is important to warn the fact and certainly to call the responsible because the Law on the Single Body of Art is not applicable in practice and that the Office for the Single Body of Arts did not start working as it was a commitment on the day of 1.01.2015. I know that the lawyers will correct me now, but by that I don't think he lived in practice, that he didn't realize everything that was hinted at when we voted, or when we discussed that law. The law on a single body of art has been announced as a small law that will bring about major changes and so far these changes are negative and have brought problems to many citizens at social risk. If it is estimated that every year 100 thousand of our citizens are the average warlocks, then we can assume what is the size of the business. By 31.12.2014, in the first and second stages of the procedure, 6 ministries were artificially trained, and then we can assume how many so far are in 3 months, counting that cases have been collected already since 12 months, there are requirements for skills standing in the offices of these institutions waiting to be taken over by the Office of Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Like I said to those employees, he's been down all this work for now. I really don't mean to call either the pension or the employees' offices, but I would like to warn them that it wasn't on time and well prepared, and that we could, if we wanted to listen, expect these problems and that we could have prevented them. In the Republic of Croatia, there are more than 520 thousand people who have earned a right to some form of disability whether it is material law or some compensation, support for the family. And it has been skilled precisely because of this through the system and social care, and pension insurance and professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. The skills are to exercise rights based on maternity and parental support, trained in the education system to assess the psychophysical abilities of the child and protect the rights under the Law on the rights of defenders, military and civilian victims of labour. So in six resistors. Those rights remain. And the artisan is due to physical, sensory, intellectual, mental damage, functional abilities and work ability. It has also been trained to exercise the right to personal disability, benefits for assistance and care, extended maternity leave for a child with developmental difficulties, to achieve rehabilitation, treatment, orthopaedic aids and more that is necessary for people and what is vital to them. All those obligations still stand, but now you're not a warlock. In the debate, the HDZ Club warned that the law was unarranged and not completed, it warned that a system was being introduced that would not be able to start working within the scheduled deadline, which was the legal deadline of 1.1.2015, it was warned that no sublegal acts had been adopted, a major centralised has been warned. In fact, art is often organised in several branches, which will not be available to citizens. It also warned of the inability to hire and hire so many highly specialised experts and many more. It has also been warned that it will not be possible to see it according to unique criteria and on a single list or artificially, but later on, when real art really begins, we will be able to either praise it or criticize it. It was proposed to allow a gradual transition to the new system, we do not claim that it is not good, but abruptly interrupt the art in the first-degree and second-degree procedure in six resistors and move it all to one place and it is generally not good, we see for ourselves and in time organized, we think that it is really here I will try to say the nice word unforgivable. And all these warnings were in vain, and the result was that we had drawers full of demands, citizens waiting for their rights, professional workers exposed to legitimate criticism from those same citizens but clearly those criticisms should not have been addressed to their address but to someone else. And here I can only say for the end that of all the changes that have been valid that convinced us when they tried to pass this law, one of them was savings. We think that this savings has been achieved, but not because of the rationalization and better organisation, because of the unhappiness or dishappiness of the only order they like so much to highlight by ruling order on waiting for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103121	Thank you, too. He had one replica. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103122	Well, dear fellow Members, not a disputed part of the claim that you said because obviously there is a problem, but the subject of today's debate is indeed a proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the list of bodily damages with the final draft law, and it is important to say that it will be dealt with today in another way with a single list of physical damages given through a certain rule or methodology. And we think that this is a more appropriate solution due to practically daily changes in the harmfulness and dangers in the world of work because let's not forget this was used exclusively once to determine professional illnesses. These lists are spreading, these lists have been changed. I think this is a more practical solution. But in any case, if we were to talk about the laws that we've passed here, we'd have something to say because it's obvious that there are problems, but you understand that when we move on to every new system, it doesn't go smoothly because people have their commodity, they have their habits, they change some spaces, they change some leadership, and it doesn't really go smoothly from day one, and I don't justify it, but I have to admit that it's kind of deep-human until one system is being stalked. And you're also right when you say it was or you said it wasn't, there was plenty of time because there was a year of transitional period to form these artificial and professional rehabilitation centers. But look, I think it's all the situations we're in right now to make up for with a little goodwill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103123	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103124	Dear colleague Hrelja, I understand your well-intentionedness, and I also don't want to be some kind of on-call critic now, and these criticisms may be the least addressed to the people present here, and perhaps we should, given that this office will somehow be in charge, so you can have the influence that as soon as possible and as soon as possible to establish these structural units and that they start working. I am entitled in some way and dissatisfied with the fact that I come from the welfare system and I know how important these skills are for the people who go to these skills are both social and medical and medical and with the basis of the disability really to say so in need. There are experts for a fixed person who needs an allowance for care and assistance. There's an expert on personal disability. A mother who waits to extend her maternity leave because she has a child with developmental difficulties, whether she stays on maternity leave or starts working. There are also skills that are both urgent and important from the process, from the world of work. So this isn't just criticism for criticism, this isn't even demagogy now. I think and argue, I argue responsibly, and I said that in the debate both in the first and second readings and even from some clubs, I think from yours we were inclined to go to the third reading, not prepared, and I'm sorry that there is enough experience, there is enough expertise and knowledge in this country that this should not have happened in that population that is the most endangered and whose rights are financially small.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103125	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister or what? That's right, here's a guess. Thank you very much. I've known you before, but I haven't noticed much. I have plenty of time since this is a small law and it would be technical, but given the debate of Mrs. Murganić, I will look back a little on what is therefore the purpose and desire of forming a single body of art in the Republic of Croatia. It's said here, so it saves under no. 1 and leveling the criteria. If we're talking about saving, so we're forming a unique body of art, then here I whispered to my colleagues here in the benches why we were breaking the state's inspection into 10 individual inspections. So up to this outside the category of Mr. Deputy Minister. This is where the parliamentary deputies voted in a false majority, because there wasn't a majority on this side at the time, so I intervened, so to break the state's inspection into 10 different inspections. And we already have the consequences, there have been cases where one interdisciplinary inspection activity was needed, so it wasn't because it worked separately. If it were the state inspectorate that existed then it would certainly be the composition of that inspection so that he could solve certain cases, that's one thing. Secondly, while you're talking, we know that this, by intervention of this government and by the decision of us MPs, or representatives of the Kukurik coalition of the Department of Social Welfare, 22 of them were made in the state by 72 social care centres. And so it broke into smaller units as well as the state's inspection. Now, the opposite of these two cases, we have the unification and creation of a single body of art in the state. And we have 100,000 art cases a year. The waiting list as it is in hospitals is such a list of waitings for a unique body of art in the Republic of Croatia and these are all cases that are very connected to say with the social and what is really necessary for people, starting with an assessment of the needs of other people's care, other people's help, disability assessments, physical damage, the need for extended maternity leave, etc. So all these people are in trouble, all 100,000, all those who go to the unique body of art and the waiting list is extended and it's long, as you say, they haven't yet created that unique body of art to start doing as prescribed by law since 1.1.2015. So then I don't know what the savings are, is it saving the creation of these welfare centers, is it saving the creation of 10 inspections in the state or is this saving, or is it all expensive crazy, confused, normal everything in that whole thing? Of course, the proposal for a law on termination, as it bears this legislative proposal, the name of the bill on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages with the Final Proposal of the Law, is technically one law which has two articles and which we will adopt, which is of course, there is no need here to create to this extent that I say evil blood to vote against. Because even those people, these 100,000 people, could access the unique body of art, of course, that the Kukurik coalition would vote for this. And it is good and notice that a total of over half a million people have just been affected, these are persons with disabilities of any degree in the Republic of Croatia. It is almost, not nearly, but eight of the population, eight of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And eight of the population is 13%, 12.13% of the population. Of course, it's neither who I say is guilty nor guilty of it, but they all have a need, or new cases that arise and that come to the unique body of art and the Office of Arts which, which was founded to conduct professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities, etc. And who's called the Skill Office for a short period of time will have a lot of pressure. As far as I know this unique body of art works in only four cities, it is Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. Now imagine the distances and needs of these people when they come to this unique body of art, how unique it is if it is formed in four cities, one in Split, one in Osijek. It's so unique, it's horrible. And what will be the criteria in determining the disability of all of this that evaluates this unique body of art, and that is very questionable. One is part of the team in Osijek, one is in Split. Whether they interfere, travel, or I don't know what, how. So there's a problem with that. We are already in the debate when we were talking about the unique body of art here at the Parliament, when we broke the spear here and it was really a bile debate, everything has already been said, so there's no need to repeat it. The HDSSB club will be for this technical law, but in any case the clues and the discussions and everything we discussed half a year ago remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103127	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club of the independent Grubisic-Kain. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, to repeat these basics, the Institute of Art and Design Unit of the Institute, the unique body of art has been established by the Law on the Single Body of Arts, and since 1 January 2015, it has been performing skills in the first and second stages of the procedures for the exercise of rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, health, education, professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities, the protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas where certain rights are exercised on the basis of skill or on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the single body of artisans has been regulated among other ways and the training procedure in the field of pension insurance, which includes the identification of damage to the body of physical damage. The Office of Arts will perform the articulation by applying the methodologies set out in the Regulation on the methods of art of which is an integral part of the list of damage to the organism list 1. That list 1 sets out the types and percentages, the extents of damage based on which opinions on the type and extent of damage, physical damage on the basis of which compensation is obtained for physical damage under the Pension Insurance Act and proposes to suspend the law on the list of physical damages. The HNS club of Liberal Democrats accepts that. It is not worse to say just a few words more about persons with disabilities, i.e. their rights and our obligations. Every time we mention that we put people with disabilities first in all our thinking and in all the processes in society. We also say that in the community everyone is equal except people with disabilities, namely those persons are a little more equal. People with disabilities are our equal citizens and fellow citizens, only with some different needs than the rest of us. Croatian society can boast that it is highly sensitive to its citizens or people with disabilities, but as a state, in particular some local communities, we are not of an objective nature, but it seems to me that for more subjective reasons we have done enough to make our fellow citizens' daily lives easier and more accessible. There is absolutely no reason that all state institutions, public institutions are not adapted to persons of all kinds of disability, from deaf, blind to persons with mental impairment or persons in a wheelchair. There is really no reason why adjustments for people with disabilities are not so expensive that some units of local or regional self-government or the institution itself could not solve them. Croatia has had good legislation on addressing the needs of disabled persons with the fact that this government can be praised that it has made particularly significant qualitative steps in this segment in this term so that today's legislation and the legal framework is regulated according to the highest standards possible. But as it is known, in Croatia law enforcement is a small whisper in relation to the laws themselves. Unfortunately, and we're all aware of that, there's still a lot of work that we owe as a state and society to do for our people with disabilities. I will mention only some of my heart, from the children's hospital in Bistra through psychiatric hospitals, especially their geriatric departments, especially the Geriatric Department of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapac to the everyday adaptation of space and educational programs to the employment of disabled persons. It is up to all of us and to each of us that at least part of our contribution to improving, raising the quality of life of our disabled citizens and our personal lives. They are a minority and it is the duty of the majority to care and help the minorities. In addition to all the above, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will support the final draft law on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103129	Thank you too, colleague. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We'll be done for today. Tomorrow we will continue with points 5 to 9. The first is the Final Proposal for the Agriculture Act. Good-bye to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-04-0.u103130	Final draft law on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damage, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 794. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. I find that the law is P.Z. No. 794 delivered unanimously with 104 votes for. And now I give my word to my colleague Shuker.
