ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98399	Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue the meeting of the Croatian Assembly in plenary form and we move immediately to the debate according to the established agenda on - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 779. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac, appeared before moving to the debate. Now we move on to the established agenda, and when the conclusions and materials come in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then we'll put them under discussion. Thank you very much. We are now going to what I have already announced in accordance with the established agenda, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 779. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister Zdenko Antesic, on behalf of the proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98401	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The existing Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, regulates the safety and interoperability of the railway system in accordance with the provisions of the European Union Directive relating to security management and improvement measures and the conditions for achieving interoperability of the European Union rail system. The security measures include the harmonisation of the regulatory framework in countries, the determination of responsibilities between participants in the railway system, the development of common safety objectives, the establishment of a principle for issuing safety certificates and the authorisation for release into use of structural subsystems, the establishment of a national safety authority, that is, the Railway Safety Agency and an independent railway accident research body, and that is the Agency for the investigation of accidents in air, maritime and rail transport. The interoperability of the European Union rail system leads to technical harmonisation to optimal levels, thus developing international rail transport services and contributing to the creation of an internal market in equipment and services in the railway area. The Republic of Croatia has, following its obligations as a full member of the European Union, notified that law to the European Commission as a national implementing measure for the relevant Directives, i.e. Directive No. 2004/49 on the safety of the Community railways, then Directive 2008/57 on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community and Directive 2007/59 on the authorisation of machinery managers. The European Commission has carried out an evaluation of the implementing measures and identified a series of issues related to the transposition of the provisions of the Directives into Croatian legislation. In accordance with the answers provided by the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission by the proposed law in question, the necessary amendments are made with a view to a clearer and unambiguous alignment with the provisions of the Directive. Significant amendments to the existing law relate to the definition of a railway undertaking which, in addition to a legal person whose main activity is the rail transport of passengers and freight, must include any other legal person whose activity is one of the activities of such transport. The extension, recognition of approval for the release into use of the vehicle and to those issued in other Member States of the European Union, shall be more precise in determining that the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings manage the related risks in accordance with the safety responsibility of their activities and that the Railway System Safety Agency monitors those risks. A study of serious accidents and other accidents and incidents carried out by an independent investigative body, thus repealing provisions on a joint investigation committee which do not comply with the provisions of the Directive. During last year, the European Commission adopted new Directives amending the Security Directive and the Interoperability Directive with an obligation for Member States to give up a certain period of time, i.e. by 1 January and 1 July 2015, they shall comply with their national legislation. The Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the acquisition and implementation of the European Union's acquis for 2014 provides for the adoption of this law with a view to full compliance with the legislation of the European Union. The amendments to the Directive relate to the first, to restricting the illicit level of noise emissions produced by the railway system in areas near the railway infrastructure and in the controllers detailed in the regulations and decisions of the European Commission. Second, common safety indicators reported each year by the Railway Safety Agency to the European Commission, which relate to railway accidents. The draft law also regulates the way in which funds are provided for the operation and operation of the Agency for the Safety of the Railway System and is prescribed to be provided from the state budget. The current law provided for the financing of the Agency from fees paid by railway undertakings and infrastructure managers and from fees for the performance of the Agency’s activities, which would be more detailed under the relevant Regulation. In view of the legitimate observations, the most part due to the co-financing of the infrastructure manager from the state budget, this Regulation has not been adopted and the provisions on self-financing of the Agency have not been implemented. The proposal for a law stipulates that compensation for carrying out the Agency's activities will be administrative fees directly paid to the state budget. The other provisions of the draft law prescribe the keeping of the infrastructure register in accordance with the new European Commission Decision adopted at the end of 2014. The draft regulation adopted observations and opinions that came on the basis of consultation with the interested public. The draft regulation is addressed to the opinion and bodies of the state administration, and taking into account the proposals and the Office for the Legislatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration, the draft law in question has been drawn up. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget and since the regulation is adopted in order to comply with the acquis, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98402	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98403	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy. I volunteered for the replica for the reason Mr. Deputy said no additional means were necessary for the implementation of this law. So this is another law that the government did not propose in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, because this is the old way it used to be written. And therefore, there is no assessment of the fiscal impact of this law here. Secondly, if giving two or two-and-a-half billion guarantees in the past year to the Croatian Railways are not State budget funds, then I do not know whose funds they are because they will have to return to the burden of the state budget in the coming years. And therefore, when a law like this is proposed, despite the fact that these are not direct funds from the state budget, I think Mr. Ministers should make an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact here. It is a potential danger as to guarantees for the state budget, and this is how easy it is to write that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget, I think it is primarily unserious for Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and above all, unserious to the Croatian public. And then we'll be surprised again, because let's remember the shipbuilding story all these guarantees were published when the state budget was proposed and the state budget was implemented. But it's very interesting that we don't have the same criteria, we don't have the same thinking when it comes to railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98404	Thank you very much. There is no reply to the replica, because the respected deputy had to leave unsustainably, so we will hear in address or representation on behalf of the promoter. ... He can't, he can't. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part, present their views? No, I don't. Then we'll go into debate. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we are going after the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of independent representatives Linić – Vukšić – Hodžić and respected representative Slavko Linić. Here's my colleague Linic. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98405	... Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] What to say about the law containing the European Commission's directives on safety and interoperability in rail transport in the Republic of Croatia. The club will support such measures, such a bill. But there's something more we need to say about the bill itself. What is important for Croatia is that we will not find it in this law. What can we see? The law regulates security and interoperability, measures for the development and management of safety, procedures for bodies to manage investigative actions if an accident occurs, conditions for self-management and the very course of transport on rail infrastructure, as well as the conditions and activities of infrastructure managers. And the aim of the European Community to raise the level of security, the aim of all directives was to provide additional funding and what I would say measures and activities in rail transport to achieve this in the European Community. What can we conclude when we read this bill? That's when we determine that we've only installed measures. In this reasoning of the law, you have not one word about how much the current infrastructure and operators on Croatian railways are even ready for certain application of these regulations and measures. And that's the biggest problem. That's why we have this weird finding that doesn't require resources. One-off funds are needed, and most of all from the state budget. We have no information here at all that more than 15 regulations have not been adopted regarding Croatian Railways' affairs, regardless of whether it is infrastructure or operators. And they were supposed to be delivered in the period of nine and half this year, 2009 to half this year. So we didn't even bring in the accompanying regulations, let alone the funds to raise safety and interoperability on the Croatian railways. So I'm just going to deal with this problem why in this law we do not openly discuss one of the biggest problems in the Croatian economy, which is the Croatian Railways. We haven't spent the rest of our lives or restructuring, and what's the worst of modernization is neither the operator nor the infrastructure. And we unpreparedly let our operators, travel and freight traffic operate on them tomorrow without saying that we would have problems with infrastructure and infrastructure manager. We have not yet separated or supervised, nor have we separated enough our infrastructure from support from the state budget, we have not spent either privatisation or a different organisation of non-basic activities in the rail system, so we will have a continuous problem in withdrawing funds. We all know that, everyone who deals with rail traffic knows that. In the Croatian Parliament, this data was not suggested or described by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to be able to do something more concrete in order to raise the level of our rail transport that is not only important for rail transport, but it is important for our tourism, but it is important for our ports, but it is also important for the transit role of the Republic of Croatia in the European Community. What we can really point out is that the sufficient quality of the work of passenger transport operators in the Republic of Croatia will indeed be given thanks to the government's decision to introduce modern light compositions in passenger transport that will be able to adapt to these provisions. And we're funding it all from the state budget. We also well employed our companies that deal with electricity production, metal production and the production of cars and trains. Yes, there we can say we have achieved a certain satisfactory standard and we will be able to adapt in the next 5, 6 years to all the regulations that we are laying down today. As we stand at freight traffic which, let's be honest, far, far more important. What can we determine? No restructuring was conducted, no privatisation was conducted, a completely failed attempt. One-on-one guarantees from the state budget that we're going to pay, and it's not acceptable to give money from the state budget to the operators. The infrastructure that should invest in rail infrastructure so that we can achieve all these measures that are envisaged we use to finance the failure of the operation of freight transport. Today, when we see that we have given over 2.5 billion for the railway system guarantees, can we say that we are at the conclusion of restructuring and see what tomorrow is freight traffic in Croatia? Unfortunately, no. We have no record of that. We don't know if that system will survive, we don't know what we're going to do. There are still some high-cost work contracts, low traffic, low performance, and tomorrow on our infrastructure we will have strong competition from European operators that will meet all interoperability requirements on European railways. And what does that mean? That our freight transport will not be able to go beyond the Croatian borders. We spend money, we burden the state budget, we have deficits, and the answers that freight traffic doesn't have. We simply know that tomorrow someone will have to make a decision to shut down the freight traffic. Right now, I think something like 2600 freight employees. Completely unprepared to meet these demands. To talk about their locomotives having traffic monitors, that's no way, that's no way. Therefore, these are the things that must have been written in this law, how the measures of this law and European regulations will reflect the life and future of our companies. Freights from Rijeka port, Split port, Zadar port, Luke Ploče believe you will not transport HZ Cargo. But we have a far more difficult problem in infrastructure. You yourself know that when it comes to railways, we will not have some high requirements for interoperability on our tracks, but it would be good to have such railways in some way, that these corridors pass through Croatia. But I am now wondering if the Croatian railway infrastructure is investing in this infrastructure, is it able to meet all these requirements under the law that we are making today? No, it's not. No funds, still the restructuring process. We also have a huge problem. Why? So we haven't defined what a spring building is, we're still tying it to the infrastructure, co-financing from the budget. And that means we can't even use quality people, knowledge, that this company works and works on Croatian infrastructure. And why is that? Well, because all the measures provided for by the European Community will be co-financed by European loans, but if they do, the railways will not be co-financed because we have not done our basic work. Restructure, privatisation and all that is needed to see that we have competitive and capable companies for professional action and withdrawal of the European community's funds, yes and that is our problem. Now we're wondering why we're so late. If we are so late why in this law, is this law not only a set of measures that we prescribe in the Croatian system of legislation to say that we are in line with Europe, but we must adapt to all these measures in order to answer whether we are ready. And we're not. We should even bring a series of additional regulations by half this year. I don't think we'll bring them, I don't think so. Nothing here has been indicated about the time limits in which those rules should be passed. It is only a sign that not only will our railways be operated by operators who are qualified for the European system and European requirements but unfortunately the work on our tracks will be carried out by foreign companies. Is those who know that, those who are capable of doing this not structurally implemented the necessary measures to be able to use the funds. For the record, we have a continuous decline in gross social product in Croatia. Check how much they worked in Slovenia to raise the quality of the railroad, how much they withdrew funds, up to 85%. We've neither prepared ourselves, and they're already using those means, they're already using those means. You know, having corridors of European or at least ten flexible is a problem crossing roads, it's a problem I would say the heights of the level of passing roads and railways, it's modern signalling, let's say some equipment we'll have to import but most of the construction work should have already been performed by Croatian construction operations and a special system trained for that, spring construction. Unfortunately, by reading this law not only do we not know as advocates what is really a situation in the Croatian Railways, but we do not see what is the government's programme that will in some way try to train our operators and our infrastructure to be part of the European and that we have security and interoperability on these railways as it should be, to be rational, is unfortunately interoperability is a lot of quality programs that reduces the number of employees but are then more competitive, not only in the railways then and our ports become competitive, the burden within a very short period can come to destinations in the European community. This only shows that we have ignored the rail system, that we are paying for irregularities with one-off guarantees from the state budget that will come to the charge because neither operators nor infrastructure will be able to repay those debts. And this spent money will not mean the competitiveness of Croatian ports or the competitiveness of the European community. Therefore, the law is welcome but unfortunately in what state the Croatian railway is in and that we can only conclude that the railways will not be in the position of Croatian workers and those who were able to work on railways until yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98406	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have nine reported replicas on your display. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative of Mile Horvat's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98407	Thank you. Comrade Linic, I fully agree with your basic conclusion and the question of how ready our railways are, or how compatible they are for the future EU rail network. The fact is that Europe is turning completely towards rail transport and transport. And today we have about 50 to 60% of freight traffic to take place by rail, of course, because of the saturation of road traffic and the increasing load of air traffic. The data says that in Germany trains today drive at 200km per hour, Austrians try the train on the stock between Graz and Berlin and target 230km per hour of speed. It's going to major investment in tunnel drilling in Brenner. Between Italy and Austria, Swiss people invest around 100m euros in rail infrastructure. And with us, we have an average speed of 20 to 60 kilometers per hour, it's about master lines. We used to have a fact that in the 1980s on such a master's line from Slovenia to Serbia we had a 160km train speed, today it's about 80 km away. So Zagreb from Rijeka, train from Zagreb to Rijeka, passenger train went 3 hours and 15 minutes, today it goes about 5 hours. So, what's the conclusion? If we're going to have a defeating conclusion, then we're going to find that even the railways made practically by Austro-Hungarian 140 years ago failed to maintain some level without saying we didn't modernise them. Of course, such a legal solution should be supported because it is the EU's gain to be agreed on, but it must not be the primary thing. The Agency shall provide funding to the Agency without neglecting this key factor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98408	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98409	So I believe that the biggest problem that we have in the Croatian Parliament is that we do not have a debate about the Croatian railway is that we would have to discuss and determine the important fact, why on the Croatian railways it is not yet 1700km of railways arranged to withstand higher speeds. And then it's important and what's it going to be by 2020, how much are we going to invest to make up for it? And when you look at the programs, then you'll see that nothing better will happen even in 2020. We're going to invest, invest, but there's going to be a number of kilometers faster and faster that needs to be done more than we can handle. That means we won't be able to increase the speed of our tracks. It is something that we must understand that the biggest problem and our work in the Croatian Parliament should be a very clear report on the problem of Croatian infrastructure in the railways and indeed establish plans because these are huge expenditures that will go from the state budget. But it is unacceptable, at the same time, that the infrastructure is financially helping HZ freight transport, and on the other hand, we need to get an answer from the Croatian government which will with this operator. He is incapable of carrying cargo in Croatia, and on European corridors, European railways will not even be able to appear. And that carrier is important for the transport of ports. These are the things where we don't have the answers, and we have to get those answers when we see this law. And of course, then the finding that you don't need the funds is incorrect. It's a lot of money they need, because it's huge financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98410	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Linic, it's a great honor for these Directives 38, 88 and to coordinate and raise how interoperability, security, I guess, is going to do it, but it's important to talk about this state in HZ just like you were talking about. So I'm testifying if I come from this area that's constantly mentioned as a highway to Central Europe, first that low-level railroad, a valley line that will greatly increase traffic, which will improve that area, but we're witnessing something else. Oh, God, that's how it's gonna work and that's how it's gonna work, but in reality it doesn't happen exactly like that. In fact, with this HZ Cargo, every little bit is witnessed by the systematizations of this kind and by the reduction of these, those and simply by the fact that the loads of the material are quite significant and even very high. And what's going on? I'm sure that's how traffic is threatened. But what else you were talking about will come in time for these external competitors who will surely take over part of that market and, of course, the jobs will be lost for these people. And the other thing, unfortunately, we'll also have to testify again to those headlines in the media that we often meet the detour misturned and stopped traffic here, there, etc. So security must be at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98412	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98413	A fellow representative is no problem at all that each of us can predict what will happen in two years. In two years, HZ Cargo's not going to go bankrupt, let's try to figure that out. 2.5 thousand people will lose their jobs. Why? So far, the minister has defended his measures to European companies dealing with freight traffic to run on Croatian railways, which run under the name. Tomorrow's impossible. Therefore, HZ Cargo is completely uncompetitive in that it can compete with European operators. European operators will also be able to exit Croatia independently through any port or other transport that is important for transport in the European Community. And it's not our problem when we look at that part of the operator, is we'll have quality operators. The problem is that we have endangered an unnecessarily 2.5 thousand people, engineers who are qualified, quality. All because we didn't define in time what was with HZ Cargo. Our problem is infrastructure. We can talk whatever we want, but we won't have the infrastructure so that the Rijeka port could compete with Koper, compete without talking about North Atlantic ports, because their largest minus will be the track, a speed of 40km in extraction, speed. Because it's not the operator's problem, it can drive 200 hours when the operator comes from Germany, but the problem is in our tracks, how quickly we're going to invest in all these tracks to somehow get results, especially given the huge guarantees issued.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98414	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98415	Thank you very much. In one sentence, you said about the measures under this law, and what is crucial and why the Fiscal Responsibility Act has laid down such a provision, which is how much these measures will cost. And we can coordinate our legislation with the EU as much as we want until we bring our thinking together with the EU. Bringing measures that cost so much and so many hundreds of millions or billions not knowing what their effect will be on the wider economy, what will be the effect on the companies that are now there best tell us what has been going on in the past 2.5 years when there have been huge guarantees to make something happen, but unfortunately there is no knowing what will be done with these companies. And we need to understand that we are no longer in the negotiating phase so that we need to bring some laws into line, try to implement something to prove that we have implemented something than we are EU members, and in some things we do not need to come forward if we are not ready and we have not prepared a complete operational programme. So I law as a law man has nothing against him, but the question is whether we have the money to implement these measures. And the other thing is whether it's really in our best interests to protect the state company, or we're gonna go back to telling some other companies that we're guilty of someone else. We blame ourselves if we don't prepare for some things. And if we were to explain this law, everything that needs to be done would cost so much and so much. So let's say we will withdraw so much and so much funds from the European Union but the effect of this for Rijeka's port, for the rest of Croatia will be such, such as that, then this law would have its own interoperability and, unfortunately, it has paper interoperability but has no domestic interoperability. And what you said, unfortunately several thousand people will be out of a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98416	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98417	From the additional contributions of this law, we see how many demands were made by the operator, by the infrastructure, by the unions to postpone something, to define something different. Why? So because they know exactly how much these systems in Croatia are applying the necessary measures to meet these European requirements in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we see that most of these requirements and CARGOs and infrastructures and unions of employees have been rejected and have not been accepted. Why? So either you will apply the measure or you will not apply it. But what should be because I'm the other way around, I'm in favour of introducing these measures because those measures will still lead someone to reason that they have to do something, that they have to make moves. And we really need to get an answer from the government which is HZ CARGO. We can't invest state resources in HZ CARGO. The money from the budget can't go to HZ CARGO. There was no privatisation in 2013, the whole of 2014 was not restructured either. Which is the fate of HZ CARGA. Why? Well, because we need every kuna for infrastructure if we want the competitiveness of the ports and the competitiveness of the traffic route or of Croatia, I would say a quality position in the European Community. Then we really have to invest in those parts. And that's why I think we should apply them, but with this, we've had to get and what the value of all the necessary work will be and how much chance of withdrawing funds from it and the European Community. What about the supply buildings so they can do these works and draw funds. Those are the answers we need under this law, we didn't get them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98418	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98419	Thank you very much. Well, I'll only refer to one part of you because there's a lot of it, but I have my own discussion. I would only remind myself of the government's 21st plan and the government's programme where the railways are one of them if I'm not mistaken for four projects that will trigger the growth of the economy and Croatia's recovery. But freight operators, foreign operators have no interest, those strong, real operators, have no interest in buying HZ CARGO. Because by liberalising traffic they simply the part that brings income and that is transit they can achieve it without buying it. We need HZ CARGO for our transports and what you said to our ports and our businesses. And that's where we can't compete. It's safe that we can't compete once... I don't even know, all those foreign operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the question is, what about local cargo, what about locals, and local railroads? Because what you're saying is the 10th corridor. I agree with that. Only the 10th corridor is a backup corridor. Let's be honest, the Fourth Corridor is the European Union's 10th Corridor is that thick reserve in case something goes down there. What about local cargo, local transport, local railways? It's him that no one sees the solution, no one offers it, no one even mentions it. And what you said about the government's readiness or the minister himself, so I'm going to remind you of a statement from the minister that without any remorse, 35,000 people will send the company with 3.5 thousand people into bankruptcy. Meanwhile, the company reduced the number of people to 2.6. But if he said that without remorse, he would send three thousand people, so don't you wonder if he's planning on sending these 2.5 guys to the street like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98420	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98421	Well, well, it's not just the 10th Corridor, Rivera-Koprivnica is also considered a branch of the Mediterranean freight corridor, so we have these railways that could achieve a sufficient degree of interoperability so that traffic towards European infrastructure can move faster. So we have more. And I agree with the basic problem is what is also called internal transport and traffic I would say according to the needs of the Croatian economy. But security is what's very important. Security. But let's be honest, it's no problem for HZ CARGO to stay, but then it's certainly not 2.5 thousand. If it will only be turned to Croatian entrepreneurs, it may be 500, 600 employees but no one will do it for us, we must do it ourselves. If we don't do this, we don't dimensional HZ CARGO towards internal transport for the needs of the Croatian economy and who will cover the losses. Let's understand that we're already having a real problem with granting a dubious guarantee in CARGO. Well, we're doing it through the infrastructure. Why? So it just doesn't accept that anyone in Europe is funding unfair competitions, using the state budget to clean up the business market. Therefore, the dubiosis that has grown in HZ CARGO is such that neither the property that is not given in conversion or privatisation is sufficient to cover the debt because then we will not have any interest in privatisation. But that's why the government has to do its job, dimension HZ-Cargo. Since we can't get out because we don't have money to modernise domestic traffic then it has to be that size and... That's what's waiting for us. The more we make a decision on this, the more we pay out of the state budget of irrationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98422	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98423	Thank you very much. In one time section, you were a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I hope there is some kind of communication between ministers, given your exposure that was indeed at the level and in which we learned all the difficulties that exist both in HZ-Infrastructure and in HZ-Carg and in travel and in general about the state of the Croatian railway. You know for a fact that HZ-Cargo has been for sale and has negotiated exclusively with one bidder who has constantly reduced values and has tried to make as much for himself as possible, so to a known... criminal Romanian who is now in prison in Romania. Furthermore, when we talk and when you talk about interoperability, it is very important to me that I am a surgeon and interoperability is in my profession, I would say more that given the state of Croatian Railways, it will be inoperable, therefore there is no interoperability in view of everything you have stated. Investments in Croatia's railways, consisting of making up the station, I will not now quote and in my presentation I will say which and how money is spent, does not contribute to improving the total traffic on Croatian railways, which reduces the number of passengers and the number of goods transported and more than two digits. What do you do with it? Here is three years of this government, no improvement occurred during this Kukuriku coalition in the Croatian Railways area, and we know everyone and Europe says and there are directives and everything else where it says that rail transport is cheaper and more environmentally clean and much safer than any road or other transport. Indeed, the situation as you yourself have said and given the Croatian ports we have and which lag behind the ports in the northern Adriatic and elsewhere, the situation is critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98424	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98425	Thank you, Mr. President. Well very clearly, the government has set out to restructure the railways and what we can be satisfied is a matter of passenger traffic. Why? Because the passenger traffic with heavy locomotives pulling two wagons was totally economically invaluable. We've employed domestic operations, domestic equipment, manufacturers, electricity industry, and we're building light compositions that will be competitive. So that's where it's done. Unfortunately, the failure of privatisation in 2013 when it comes to HZ-Cargo for the simple reason that we relyed on the man who offered to give something, everyone else asked what Croatia would write off because the dubiosis in HZ-Carg is not from the mandate of this government, the dubiosis is 10, 15 years old, a huge number of people. I would say an irresponsible collective contract that protected workers, gave them high incomes that were not at all related to any revenue. They can't even earn their minimum wage by the traffic they make. They were all things where every serious customer just asked and what the government would pay for. We didn't do it in time and what I know, January, February was said in three months restructuring with the worst measures, but it's a responsibility not to burden the state budget. We are responsible for the dubious, for the minuses and for the deficits. Yeah, that's what the government was supposed to do, it's not easy decisions, but just since January of the month when it was going seriously into the process nothing was done. Today we're in January 2015, we still have a collective contract in force, we've got a traffic drop, and we've got simple dubiouss that shift to the burden of the budget, to the burden of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98426	Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98427	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Linic, first of all, one thing has changed in the last 10 years, and that is that we have finally entered the European Union and back for a year and a half we have the right to say in the railway infrastructure to 85% of the grants. If you are unable to make a project and finance it with that amount of grants, then I have nothing to say. But let me get back to this opening statement of yours. You said and mentioned, of course, legitimate goods traffic. So no one reasonable expects Croatia to return billions of euros in investment in rail infrastructure by transporting passengers but by transporting goods. That makes sense. It is hardly the Hungarians that will continue to travel to our seas exactly as the railways do, although it should not be excluded for a very long time, but of course some mid-term should count on goods. And I'm going on my own a little bit already, but I'm going to do it a thousand more times, that's when you land at the port of Rijeka for five to seven days saving than when you go to Hamburg to get the goods to Munich. Now, in Croatia, it somehow missed everyone that a year and a half ago in the history of humanity, a civilian container ship traveled from Shanghai north of the Russian Federation due to global warming. The answer to this new Egyptian administration is to announce the excavation of the new Suez Canal, parallelly, to make it a very long time, of course, competitive. Now, what Croatia really has, it has a phenomenal geostrategic position, but without the river-Zagreb railway, without connecting Rijeka port with the Vukovar port in the Danube, we cannot take advantage of this geostrategic position. But at the speed, as my colleague Horvat said, from 20 to 50 km/h while others travel hundreds of miles per hour, I mean at that speed that this government is doing, we'll never get anywhere. And just let me have another sentence, and that's not just about the loss of thousands of jobs. So you should talk about it here. But the additional problem is to talk about tens of thousands of jobs that have been missed on the mid-term to be created, opened, people employed and not only in railways, in the creation of railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98428	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98429	I repeat, Croatian railways are not only important for traffic and themselves but also for other economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. And speaking of travellers is very important. Gredelj got part of the job, Končar got part of the job, not to speak a number of Croatian companies. That's what it's worth. We need to employ Croatian industry on projects like this, because then we have job security, income, wages, etc. It was supposed to be the same for CARGO. Đure Djakovic is well-known for cars, even locomotives and could have been very involved in modernising the entire railway park when it comes to HZ Cargo. Do you know how many jobs that is and everything? And then our geostrategic position would be far, far more important. But at this point, I'm afraid we only need to conclude one thing. There's no capital in HZ Cargo for such a twist. We can't give the money to the budget anymore. Therefore, we must get an answer which is Cargo's fate. It's something we as agents need to know. Why? Well, because there's simply no new owner who's going to invest more in HZ Cargo. To describe all the claims that Croatia has towards HZ Cargo, to forgive everything I do not believe that for the sake of the property that HZ Cargo has received someone will invest additionally in HZ Cargo. That's the question now. We have no indication of such conversations or procedures. But what is important now is fast investment in HZ Infrastructure so that we do not lose the importance of Croatian ports and geostrategic positions. Every kuna needs to be invested in infrastructure. That's why the law is necessary, but also the measures we're going to take to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98430	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98431	Thank you, Mr. President. In one thing, we agree absolutely, which is that the key challenge of Croatian railways is to invest in railway infrastructure and not only on corridors, not only on 5B corridor, 5C, nor on the 10th corridor, but also on other railway lines that are partly in function or priority in the function of rail passenger transport. However, in order to be able to discuss both this law and the fact of the development of the railway in Croatia, the Government should have made a fundamental commitment under the Law on Railways. When we adopted the Law on Railways in the Croatian Parliament in 2013, it was then said that the basic document, which is the National Programme for the Construction of Railway Infrastructure, would be brought by the Government within a year. As far as I know, this national programme has not been adopted. And if he were to be adopted by law in the Parliament then we would discuss these dilemmas that we are talking about today, the need to enter a new phase of building railway infrastructure in the Croatian Parliament. However, the government did not make that commitment and should have brought it in within a year. So, a year ago, this document was supposed to be adopted in which we would have determined all of what you were talking about, which is what the priorities are, which is the size, how high investment is in HZ infrastructure and what are the priority sources of financing this railway infrastructure are, in any case, EU funds. Therefore, without this document, we cannot discuss this law in quality. I totally agree with you. That there is no development, economic development of Croatia without investing in HZ Infrastructure primarily because of Adriatic ports which are practically separated from any potential for further development without railways. Well, we know about last year. Last year, I thought of everything planned to invest in railway infrastructure only 30% invested. It seems to me somewhere around, less than 800 million kuna was invested in HZ infrastructure, in railway infrastructure, although it was planned somewhere around 2.7 billion kuna. Therefore, it is a fundamental problem that we in the Croatian Parliament, here I conclude Mr. President, are not discussing the fundamental and key challenge of the Croatian Railways, which is investment in infrastructure. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98432	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98433	As far as I'm aware of the government's obligation to bring in a new national programme to build railway infrastructure is half this year, meaning another few months. But since we already have this law, the basic signs of this program should have been well known. And also sometime by the end of June and a new contract signed with the railway infrastructure manager. It is something that is very important to know and who is responsible, why he is responsible, how much funds he will receive from the state budget and on which basic railway corridors. But what is also important to mention to Croatian businessmen mostly using the road, we arranged the roads, we left the railroad. Today it is simpler, faster, more efficient for road transport operators. Is it cheaper? It's not. Are they more competitive? No, they're not. Therefore, we do not put our wealth in the business of the economy. They are used by expensive road transport, become uncompetitive only because time is the same money, and the railway does not allow transport within the deadlines, speed and quality needed. Yes, it is a problem that not only should we think about European corridors, but it is also important to think about the competitiveness of our economies. But it's not just investment issues, it's a matter of traffic safety, and I would say the possibility of harmonising with European corridors. We are unfortunately far from it and it is another problem that neither our infrastructure manager nor our carriers are ready for European competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98434	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98435	Dear fellow Linic sounds so proudly harmonized with Europe, so I often heard interoperability here. And here's what this looks like. Take the train to Čakovec at 1 o'clock and come to Zagreb at 5 o'clock, drive 4 o'clock. You have to bring your lunch and a liter of gemist so you can take it all together to get to Zagreb and normally drink when you drive to the Croatian Railway. Or you'll be driving from Karlovac in an hour, driving from Karlovac. Yes, here's a colleague Vuljanic says he would travel by train. In a river that's 100 miles away, how long have you been driving? The center of the city in Rijeka, the center of the city in Zagreb in an hour? Who would travel by car? Nobody! Who would travel from Chakovec 100km by car to come in 50 minutes? No one would travel. Who would travel from Carlovec? No one would travel. And we're talking about interoperability and we're driving 4 hours 100 km, we're driving 40 km straight track, like the flat rail glass, from Karlovac to Zagreb. So that's to wonder who's crazy around here? Why are we letting this happen? Of course it's not just this government. It would be normal for 80% of the transport to be carried out by rail and 20% by trains. But what did we do to make it happen? If Europe is about 50, 60% are transported by rail freight and the rest on the highway, why didn't we at least do that? Which way, when do we do that, what's the plan? Plan 21 said it is basic that it will be in their mandate to make the railway capable, that Luka Rijeka and other ports are competitive, say Luka Koper, who was not even on the ankles of Croatian ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98436	Thank you very much for the panoramic ride, and for the reply to the replica Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98437	We always wonder if we give enough and are we effective in giving? And if you were to observe all the subsidies given in the Croatian railway, how many annual amounts, how much this will be given in terms of guarantees then you will see that these are very large funds. Now, if we had invested that in infrastructure, would it have been better? I would. Would the speed and passenger train and freighter then be higher, the safety higher? Would more passengers then travel by rail? I would. Therefore, our biggest problem is that we invest money irrationally. What did we put them into? In slow restructuring processes, in slow decisions, in that we do not accept the market model of governance. We will not realise that the Croatian state is poor and that it cannot pay out of the budget for a market activity such as freight traffic, that they must earn themselves, that they must invest in modernisation themselves, that they must deal with the collection of funds to be more competitive, not on the burden of the budget. Therefore, Croatian citizens made huge money for Croatian railways. But unfortunately in the slow, bad decisions of the government that did not implement the necessary restructuring. The railroad restructuring story's been around since '97. A year. So when you see that it's 15 years of serious work, and that the situation on the railway is just a burden on the state budget and total incompetence that simply means neither the safety of our economies nor the competitiveness of our businessmen, but unfortunately neither the safety of our employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98438	Thank you very much. And the last replica, the ninth, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have said that the HZ system is not ready and is unable to meet the demands of modern times. But I'm interested in whose campaign started on the train? Whose campaign began with promises about HH? Who promised to privatize HZ Cargo? How did those promises end? Not that the system isn't ready, it's ruined. Who bought spare parts in hundreds of millions of kunas that couldn't be installed? Who was supplying tilt trains without the railways being suitable for such tilt trains? It's like we've been getting Boeings and we've got helipads built. But to all those who view the state with contempt as a participant in economic activity here are the occasions to prove to the state that they can't manage and invest their capital in the railway infrastructure. Avoid built infrastructure, invest as much as you want private and investment funds and pension funds, this modern, modern, scientific management, show everyone that the state knows nothing, you make it a successful, efficient, profitable firm. You invest as much capital as you want, you withdraw all the funds you want from the EU. Let them be given a concession for as long as they want, just to stop Croatian insurance, to abandon the built concessions of highways and Zagreb Airport, to invest there and prove to everyone, we will give you everything, that private capital shows to the state that it is inefficient, that it does not know how to manage, but not private capital just wants where the state has already shown that it knows how to buy it that the state has not been successful. Why buy something that's not working, so let them build it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98440	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98441	I don't like going back much, but obviously you're back and then a very clear answer. You know, in 2003, a regulation was passed to extract some of the money from the fuel price for modernization and CARGO, both passenger and infrastructure investment. For one reason only, we should be competitive until we arrive, to enter the European community. There's no continuity of politics in that part, there's no, it's given up. And naturally tilted... For unsettled railways, they had no function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, even now they're going to have these lightweight compositions in the passenger room, they're not going to achieve their full effect, they're not going to get more passengers' infrastructure is not solved. Therefore, you have to understand the biggest problem is that what I said since 97 we have no policy of what on Croatian railways, taxpayers' money is being spent irrationally in postponing decisions on fates and HZ CARGO and passenger and infrastructure. But not investing in the railway is the biggest responsibility because then we simply lose our geo strategic position towards Europe, because we no longer have it, then we lose the competitiveness of Croatian ports, free zones and everything else. That's the problem we have to deal with. We invest too much, we have a little too much, they pay too much and we have little. And that is unfortunately an irresponsible policy of many, many governments. What I can say from these relations with the railroad we have high-quality railways, quality workers not railways, were responsible unions, they fought but unfortunately failed. In all of this, some of them took advantage of the opportunity, so they set up irrational work contracts. That it's our destiny for the sake of the government's bad policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98442	Thank you very much for your replica and your answers and your replica. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club Independent List of Representatives and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. I'm sorry, they're losing the opportunity to discuss this subject, not present in the hall. We are going to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98443	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear ministers with fellow workers. First of all, I'm going to start by thanking Mr. Linic for his commendation that we have high-quality workers from the Croatian Railways on behalf of all of them because especially those old people, I have new ones that have gone astray, but I think this should have been said because it has a very different weight. Unfortunately today, it is common to say that they, even the more we heard about this pay phone, are people who are just waiting for 15 to get paid and do nothing else, and we heard that from this pay phone. And I'm going to look back at something else that I didn't get into the replica on your debate, unfortunately some local, not only local transports took over some of the operators if I got well, if I was well informed at the moment I had five registered operators in cargo transport, some of them took over the burdens from HZ CARGO, but with a fat support from HZ CARGO who certainly didn't pay and where insiders from that company are working to crash their own company. It's as far as I know and the state's attorney with it, there's never been any reaction to the work of one of the agencies that has had a situation that some operators who are legally doing business and have successful companies outside, have been waiting here half a year for registration, while others without their means, not to say overnight they were licensed and able to drive on Croatian railways. Which speaks for itself enough. This law, among other things in its name, states that the safety law, now that we have an average age of over 30 years, is really one of our strong points. The maintenance of railway vehicles is generally, one part of that maintenance of the rolling stock was the radio Gredel which was thoroughly destroyed, which from this pay phone was said to go bankrupt before the adoption of the Pre-departure Deal Act to save it. We've seen how the Gredel was saved, but I can't help but think that it was a favor to someone else in that part. Gredel is a state-owned company, or he is the daughter of a man who was brought into the lead did nothing to save this Gredelj and now we say the state is a bad employer. No. The state systematically destroyed that company, targeted, targeted, is intended to please someone else. To whom, why do we all know, we all have the media available, though the Prime Minister says he doesn't have time to read them. This law prescribes the obligation to reflect infrastructure by the infrastructure manager. In our design form, what it looks like to us are spring buildings. The railways are in charge of maintaining the infrastructure. Remember, if I'm wrong, it was during last year, in the middle of last year, the minister persistently wanted to sell the company of the Prussian Building. At that time, the company’s websites said they had two billion and 400 million contracts on the Internet. They had over 100 million profits, and the sale was if I wasn't wrong for 250 million kuna. Can anyone find me any logic in this intention? By selling it, the monopoly would move from state monopoly to private monopoly, given these contracts. Even those who advocate freedom of the market agree that burning the monopoly of the state is a private monopoly. And why would they do that, who would that be? Croatia has 2800 km of railway, to be quality so that the railways can be maintained in our environment is standard 1.5 to 1.8 people per km of track. In view of the constant layoffs at a company that does so simply puts them in a situation, they are forced to do so. Which is why why you need to ask someone else again, but not the minister here, but someone else who's involved in the investigation. Remonts of the railroad according to current official data are 1700 km late, so 1700 km of railroads are too late. The real data is because these are adjusted about 2,000 kilometers. But one paradox, in the business plan, of the long-term business plan, says that in 2020 we will be less than 1800 km behind. So officially more than we are today, although that's still less than we really are today. You have another one, say, that pearl, 2020, at 10. We're going to have the corridor up to 50 km of rail speed, and on the other 300 we're going to have a reduction in speed. It's very discriminatory, Vinkovci-Tvarnik remont track has not long been constructed, the compatibility of the devices that are installed with those of the others. You have a lot of projects that I remember, we all remember, as is the Prime Minister and Resort Minister, how they praised the then administration they replaced, how they held a press conference at which they announced the team since I was 13 or 14 women who would run EU projects and how these projects would be that 25 if I didn't cheat, were on the list, and that it would all be successfully realised. But now we have a practice to discuss competitions and it's simply waiting for the competition to pass, nothing happens, it cancels out and it's healthy. For example, the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Okucani-Vinkovci railways, I would like to know what it is, the construction of a system for central traffic management, the reconstruction of the construction of the second railway section of the Zagreb-Klara-Sisak railway, the new freight route around Zagreb, the GSMR program of central traffic management, these are all projects that are former but newly announced. In HH, you have one more practice of personneling and now you've gone so far as to the extreme that it's already become nakaradic. So you have one person appointed to the executive post, the person comes to take the job and then after a few days gets a solution from that position before she gets the appointment decision. Be careful how fast that goes. So we're going to set someone up, and then we don't like him, or more likely we get a warrant or something, we need to frame someone else, take care of her, and then it has to pull back and make a new solution. We have a situation where a member of a daughter’s board of directors, who is also a member of another society’s supervisory board, but is paid at the same time by the parent society. And now the man em was brought in now by the new, em became suddenly an expert on everything because he's there on the board of directors here in the administration, and at the same time he's paid for his education. Well, I'm so glad you guys reacted since he's got a new practice. You know what new practice is in HZ? Dal is aware that there will be changes in power, but they have begun to take care of HDZ personnel neatly. Is this a new coalition at the dock or is he who does it aware that by changing power he will be dependent on the mercy of those who come? Is related to the state Yeah. [[Intruder Leko: Depolitisation of railways.]] As for one section mentioned by the esteemed representative Linic about the spring buildings, or maintenance of our tracks. We now have, apart from the correspondence provided by the trade unions, we have a decision from the HZ Infrastructure administration that says that the railway structures can be engaged in the reconstruction of the railways on HZ and participate in projects and we have the opinion of an independent legal expert who says that the railway structures can participate in whether as a joint bidder, whether as a subcontractor but mostly can. Then suddenly there happens a congregation of society, which is actually HZ infrastructure but a congregation of the company of the railway structure that makes a decision in which it says it is not competent to decide on it. The second point states why they cannot participate in what is false. And then in the third point, they owe the administration of that same society to cut themselves off from the branch they're sitting on. Then we still have one larger pearl to send the management of this company of these pruning buildings to foreign partners who are co-operatives who are extremely important names in this business, which sends them a memo informing them that due to their joint appearance and they are out of the race and cannot run for projects. And then another bigger pearl. We have kicked it out of the game and have passed the first round, we have thus kicked out of the game both our game and some foreign players who will now have a very good opinion about their partners but also about Croatia in general. And apparently, it's about favoring, or setting someone up, whom we'll only see in the future. The model for solving this problem exists. It was also offered by letter to both the prime minister and the minister, it exists in neighbouring Slovenia. That's how Slovenians work. This project that is now under way, the Long Selo-Križevci, the reconstruction of the existing track, the construction of another 200m euros, 15% of the Croatian side's participation. In this project, we will not be harvested, nor harvested. For what? Because someone's good for someone, because we're incompetent, because we don't know, I don't know the exact reason. But it's crazy that we give it up, it's not a small amount. You have the opportunity, I believe the most quality Croatian construction company to employ, not we do not allow it, we malternize it knowingly. The destruction of HZ CAGRO, a contract that exists for which, according to my information, the minister is familiar with the contract between HZ infrastructure and HZ CARGO. According to the contract, HZ CARGO undertakes to make 3 million kuna monthly payments to HZ infrastructure on behalf of the debt. In the last 12 wars, it will pay 130 million. Watch out for $3 million a month and then 130 million in the last war. At the same time, every month they make a new debt of 15 million kunas that don't pay. And the component of that contract is, among other things, real estate but also public goods. How can a public good part of that contract be? One more question I'd like to update, the law firm. As we know there are some law firms working for HRT, which work for operators, which are often mentioned here, there are such lawyers working within the HH system. Will DORH react to that? [[Thank you very much.]] I'd like to see it. [[Thank you. Bring an end to the debate.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98444	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98445	Comrade Novak, you seem to have mentioned in the first sentence, began to list how it was destroyed, how Croatian railways were destroyed. So here's an example I'm going to mention in 2003 the Croatian Railways signed a million-dollar contract with the company as part of the modernisation of ticket control, it seems to me to be called the IST KING, about the purchase of 800 mobile ticket sales and ticket control. These devices were purchased but these devices are still standing in the infrastructure warehouse, 800 devices, millions spent on it, standing on... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they say the company that sold those devices was unable to put them into operation. And what's happening now, of course to me as a layman smells of corruption. What's going on now? The same company is hired to do a similar job now, I guess, according to new rules, because there was a smell of money here that could come from the European Union. There is a need to react to the DORH as in many other cases when mentioning Croatian railways. You were talking about the Human Crosses and whether there's a new coalition on the pier. That coalition, Mr. Novak, has been functioning for decades, and it's always been praised that we haven't fired a SDP or any HDZ, so they're not, they're just piling up. So that's why companies are, public companies are shelters for the staff of two major parties plus HNS. And they are, if you look at the structure, they're whole families employed in these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98446	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98447	Well, colleague Vuksic, you started with portable card control devices, I worked in that system, and I know what it is, and I have absolutely nothing to add, I have nothing to take away, all you've said is true. With what it is, I'd add that the team traveled in if I wasn't wrong in Canada or the United States, so they spent eight days there probably testing these devices so they realized that the devices were good. But I'd remind you, there's no long DORH report, so we've established 800 computers missing, 300 of them have that are simply in such a state that they're unusable except as typewriters, and at the same time we have a situation to write off devices from 2012, PC computers. Is it normal for someone? Is that logical? Remember that we had a case where there was an order, that there was a car buy-in contest in which there were two children's seats in the specification, two child's seats for a business car headman. What are we talking about? ... I don't know which party, but they'll know each other. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The kids aren't in the party yet, what a colleague would say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But a lot of such things there are, this is a banal example, but a lot of such things have where unfortunately no one reacts and things are evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98448	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98449	Comrade Novak, I'm glad you mentioned the workers because we often make mistakes. Croatia's large state-owned company system is crawling with experts and knowers of their work that have both knowledge and experience. But as a rule, the better the structure of workers, the worse the administration, and that follows them, not to allow them to develop their potential but to suppress them. But you said the beam was saved. Saved through bankruptcy. It's a fantastic rescue solution. How come Gredelj didn't end up in a pre-fashion deal, and only a few days had to wait, and Gredell could have been in a pre-fashion deal. How is it that if pre-price agreements protected and protected jobs, how they did not protect and protect workers' jobs in Gredel, and the property and place of business of the owner who ruined both his and others' companies? How is it not to protect the workplace of those who have not charged their claims? No, I don't. How come the worker in Gredell isn't human, and the owner of whoever ruined the others might be superhuman. Since remorse does not work because of these workers, and it works for one company, one large or three large companies that have launched a pre-fashion settlement, which is why the whole process has been launched. There's no remorse for 3500 workers. Well man, but really man to whom God has given the greatest gift in the form of reason if he speaks of 3500 workers without having any remorse and moving them from work to the Employment Office as about moving potatoes from the warehouse to each other, then he has been deprived of the full feelings of discomfort and a lot of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98450	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98451	Thank you. I'll start at the end. You mentioned how someone with no remorse would listen to 3500 people. A little bit back in history, remember at what point it was said. The day before that was that famous lunch that the media mentioned, which cost 10,000 kuna. It is likely under the impression of that lunch that this sentence is spoken without any remorse of 3500 people because today, normally, lunches for 10,000 kuna. As far as Gredell is concerned, I keep mentioning this Gredell and reminding you of a forced decision, let's declare bankruptcy. Moreover, a man from the parent company was brought here because no one else wanted to come there, took a year-long, there he was employed to sign a bankruptcy decision, just for that. So 15 days employee of the Gredel, to be returned back to the system and rewarded, and responsibility has nothing. Where's the responsibility? They say the state is a bad manager. It's not the state, it's the ones appointed by the ruling. What about the responsibility of a man who, for example, pushes HZ-Cargo into ruin, and 3500 people, 3500 families will suffer the consequences of that. What about the responsibility of this man who sits there, who spends it all together, and doesn't care about it without remorse. As for experts within the HH system, there are but to tell you the truth, it's very often a head cut as soon as it turns out that someone knows something and will. It is immediately eliminated, degraded in all kind and possible ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98452	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98453	Dear colleague Novak, I am referring to this part of your debate concerning the railway buildings, and I think you have well-designed this and I believe that the question of the government's responsibility and the resolution ministry is to be asked, which is why those solutions offered by the unions have not been accepted, to take over the Slovenian model which has proved to be extremely successful. So it is not true that there was no variant that could have led to the successful exploitation of European funds and that Croatian companies and Croatian citizens benefit from it in the end, and I think this is a question which is not only about this problem but also about Croatia's overall readiness to exploit European funds because we were not preparing a consortium. In most cases, our companies will not be able to report to these competitions, which means that these jobs will be done by foreign companies and that they will actually benefit from it. Are we really so incompetent and stupid society that we are unable to solve these problems in the way that Croatian society will benefit in total. So the cost of forming the agency would be according to the information I received from the union between 1 point to 2 million kuna, and now we see how much money in fact the Croatian state and Croatian companies will miss to use for the development of Croatian society because we were unable to organise ourselves in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98454	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98455	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more. In fact, you just realized that's exactly what I was saying. However, I must point out that there is also the opinion of an independent legal expert that there is, in addition to all of this, that there is a possibility to engage Croatian companies. Who's in the interest of not knowing? It's obviously complete with that initial decision to sell that firm under all force. The company that has contracted 2 billion and 400 million jobs, which has over 100 million profits per year, is sold for 250 million kuna. It's obvious there's something wrong with that. If there were examples, here's an example of Siemens owned between the other and the German state, but it's also part of a project to modernise their railways, their rolling stock. How come there's no conflict and it can't be with that territory. But the minister said on the board that we would force the Germans, the German state railways to divide in our model. I don't know who we are, probably members of the board, and I don't know if I'm getting stronger with a few more people. It's just amazing that we French and German railways as big railways have found their logic, their calculation that there's no point in getting in the way, that you should hold tight holding. No, we invented hot water. This little railroad, little country, we're going to go for even less. That's crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98456	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98457	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Novak. I know that you are also connected to the Croatian railways, that you have spent almost your working life there. But I don't agree with your debates when you're discussing a way of playing, here's exactly what I've written myself on taking care of HDZ personnel, etc. etc. I don't want to be critical in my entire debate. For me when it comes to Croatian railways, one thing is important, I'm talking about Croatian railways as a whole that there is an investment plan, that there are priorities, that there are sources of funding and that we see in this plan to click on the years we're going to finish this job. And very important still to employ a domestic operation, to take advantage of the last euro offered from the EU funds and, of course, in its discussions one, five, six, ten times you mentioned Gredelj. I agree that he will be fully employed, but I also warn you that there is an extremely high-quality company in Slavonski Brod, which is the first Croatian car factory Đuro Djakovic and that there are no cars and locomotives that they can't make today. Today, we too in Slavonski Brod hold around 450 employees in the company, counting on the work of Croatian Railways, on cars for the needs of Croatian railways. And of course, there's a lot of buildings, there's bridges, windows, tunnels, overpasses, signalling, and that would be one big profit to hire domestic suppliers and domestic construction operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98458	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98459	Comrade Shima, I'm sorry, Reverend Djurdjevic, for a little too many years, we both have to believe in fairy tales. And fairy tales are what you've told, that you don't believe in taking care of your staff, I thought of parties. The fact is, people are just pragmatic. I'm not saying, look you need to understand the situation. The one who's been there for three years today in a leading position has been arrogant. After three years, he realized that the devil was wearing a joke and that the next election might lead to a turnaround in the company. So let's take care of some people tomorrow, hand-hand me. They'll give it back to me if there's nothing else to do at least some kind of workplace. And that's the living truth. You can check if you want when we meet at the coffee shop later I'll give you the names of all these people, so you check their IDs. As far as foreign players are concerned, the fact is that this job isn't done yet, it's not closed. So we can't talk about names, and otherwise it wouldn't be right to talk about names because I'm afraid there'd be too many of them here to list which in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98460	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98461	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, you and I are mostly about the railroad, and the dogs are barking up the wagons. And here's three years of caravans still going their own way, and there's absolutely no change. What has been done in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the governments that have been replaced by this or it is a railwayicide, so the murder of the railroad and the harmful measures of poor incompetent administrations that are precisely through customerism, nepotism, further guessing of various species. You're on your own from calling a car competition with two children's seats, going on a study trip to see ticket control machines, 7 days in America, then 800 computers that you need, etc. In Slavonski Brod, while we are already talking like Shima is a few years ago, 10 maybe more, open as a fee because it is no longer Slavonski Brod railway hub even though it should be and belongs to it, a car wash has been opened for years that has spent as much as 70 kuna of water. So she was paying water to the Slavonski Brod 70 kuna. You can imagine what capacity it was and what development it was for Slavonski Brod what compensation it was for the railway hub. And Gredelj and Gredelja's bankruptcy is a special story, as soon it is likely that Đuro Đaković's bankruptcy will occur, which reduces the number of workers from those 17 thousand from the 1990s or the year before, two, here are now 890 workers. And all through the personnel set up by this government, starting with Kovacevic, Mazal and I don't know whether or not I, Mazal, are those who put the CNS alone as my quota in this government. No matter what expertise, qualifications and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98462	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98463	You started with those dogs barking caravans coming through, nothing changes. It's the only thing we can do from this position to talk about and warn about the situation that exists and the problems that exist. But I will, even though my colleague Linic said we won't keep moving for the past, I'll be back in the past but not so long ago, the past that applies to this government. Remember at the first day of the meeting of the Assembly of the House, the vice-president of this distinguished House, Mr Stazic, said our ministers will be held accountable. And they will bear responsibility even in the case of people they named when they sin, when they do something that is not legal, which is not good, which harms them. Give me one such example in the case of this ministry. And HZ Cargo existed, in the future very soon it doesn't seem to. The beam was there, today we can get HZ travellers and HZ Cargo something little not give them these jobs there is no it, it does not participate in this part of these low floor trains at all. The same thing that you said to Djuro Djakovic, I apologize to my colleague Đurović for apostrophe of Gredelj, not Đuro Đaković, because Gredelj was more current, after all Gredelj was totally laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98464	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98465	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Novak, when you were talking about the speed of work and the maintenance of the railroad, you said how fast it was going, and for example, I'm going to give you an example for the citizens of Bjelovar that you probably know about, and it's about building a 8km rail of St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac, who was born in the '90s, is about 16 years old and there is documentation. The County of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska bought part of the land, documentation was made, everything exists, but as the administrations in the Croatian Railways changed, as the authorities only promised to change, and not even the beginning of the construction of the 8km arm that would significantly help and shorten the journey of the citizens of Bjelovar to Zagreb and in some way created certain savings. Nothing's ever been done before. It's just talking about a part of the money that's been thrown around the promise itself, and nothing concrete has been done, and the whitewashers call the railroad called longing, and I think in the end there's going to be railroads called longing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98466	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98467	Yeah, I know about that case, and it takes this story like Santa Barbara, what people in the jargon would say, never end, and who knows what the end of that story will be. But I will remind you also of the debate in this House when I warned about all these major projects. When a reconstruction of the Sisak station was announced, I bent and I begged you not to do so. In Sisak a man squirms when stabs come to Roman excavations. No, it went into reconstruction, there was a lot of money being invested, and now we don't even have a station, and now we have some kind of poor position that, by no standard, shouldn't meet security. But there, the paper did its part. God didn't let anything happen, and it's not excluded that it's going to happen because for a few years this is going to take a while, so why? How much money was invested in that? And what do we have now? And no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Will anyone and who answer and when in that case Sisak Station? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98468	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98469	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, distinguished ministers with associates. When we talk about amendments and additions to this law, we need to establish that this is indeed one demanding law whose adoption will determine how this will ensure further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation by transposition of the provisions of Commission Directives 38 and 88/2014 and thus ensure further preservation and improvement of the safety of the rail system of the Republic of Croatia in line with EU requirements, achieving interoperability in the EU rail system and improving the basis for achieving further technical coherence, reducing obstacles and improving the development of services in the EU rail system and with third countries. In the sea of procedures, the activities provided for by this law were evident and interested in the public debate. In a public debate, about 65 remarks were made, the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure accepted one part of those remarks. We at the HDZ Club will be abstentioned on this bill and this is because we want to point out through this law in this debate the overall state of the Croatian railways and the impact of this law on this state. In this regard, we have an incomprehensible deadline set out in Article 139 of this Law, which states that the Minister’s most important regulations will be adopted within 5 years. For five years, you've heard well, five years from the day of entry into force of this law. I've unfortunately never met this before in any bill of law and we've debated hundreds of them. This means that two ministers must go through the system if not more ministers to make this law enforceable. I often refer to that famous novel called Train in the snow, and given this provision, that Mr. Conductor Saperlot would say, that's right, Saperlog. Five years to make sure that system works. What's that gonna mean? The adoption of implementing rules and essential rules for railway safety shall be postponed for a period of up to 5 years. Without sub-legislative acts, this law does not make any sense because most of the operational implementation is questionable and rests on the old non-compliant regulations with two new Directives of a newer date with which this law is harmonised. The result of such inactive behaviour is a threat to railway safety. I'll just read you some headlines from the last two years of the media, "The Guider misturned the turning point, so he took off the back of the passenger train." "It burned on Zagreb's main station, the roof of the train set on fire, no injuries." "Because of the sliding of the railway vehicle, train traffic has been suspended on the Knin-Zadar track." "Arranged collision of a passenger and freight train in Oriovac." "HH shut off the power to prevent the tragedy, a avoided train crash at Long Village." And unfortunately, the most tragic event of only three months since the event "Deathed driver, mother and two children at the crossing of Purine between Island and Spačva." It's a state of security on the Croatian railways. Does this law with a delay in the rules for 5 years of safety in rail transport? Since the basic law in June 2013, it has been a year and a half, the ministry has done nothing, it has failed to pass prelaws almost none. Now the law is passed again which does not have the basis for implementation, it is as if in the body of the Mercedes you install the engine of the fictitious. Such a hybrid could probably drive, but you have a five-year deadline. There is simply no proactive access to security with all actors on the railway market, which is precisely the spirit of European legislation. Let's just conclude in this section, "Out of hunger, inside the pit. " Second note, I will read to you, and with regard to Articles 10 to 21 of these amendments and additions, part of the conclusion of the report of the Railway Safety Agency for 2013: "In 2013 and taughtly there were still great difficulties in introducing new railway undertakings with their own tow vehicles, locomotives. The absence of the necessary rules or technical conditions in accordance with this new law makes the whole process very difficult. The necessary clarifications of the legal provisions are long or not delivered to the agency at all." Therefore, agency employees must be able to manage in various ways in order to end certain administrative cases, bearing in mind that safety comes first. These problems in the Agency's work have been expressed in the second half of 2013, i.e. in the beginning of the settlement of administrative cases allowing for start-up, carrying out freight transport on these operators, most often in the case of foreign carriers. What's the big deal? In the Republic of Croatia, a railway undertaking may become an administrative fee of 70 kuna. I hope you heard me correctly. From 70 kuna. The carrier can easily obtain a general and special part of the licence and, unlike other European countries, pay a symbolic compensation of 70 kuna per case. The carrier pays the costs of testing and test driving, but the fee for becoming a carrier is ridiculously small. It seems that the employees of the ministry who prescribe fees do not understand the subject at all, and low taxes introduce the possibility that the railway carrier may become any legal person who has the minimum conditions of locomotives and wagons, organized... under co-operatives with one trained employee, they shall be granted carrier status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has already caused riots on the railway market. This further makes it difficult for railway undertakings on the verge of bankruptcy. As a result, there is a disturbance in the market and aggravation and such weak positions of railway undertakings. This includes data, and they are devastating, HH passenger transport translated 22 million passengers in 2014 which is 5 million passengers less than in 2012, 5 million or 25% less passengers. HŽ CARGO translated 9 million tonnes of goods in 2014 and in 2011 it was 11 million and 400 thousand tonnes, meaning 2 million 400 thousand tonnes of goods less, it is 25% less goods in the transport of these two carriers again. Defeating data on investment in rail infrastructure. HZ Infrastructure planned 2.69 billion kuna investments, the rebalancing of the plan due to delays and not withdrawing EU money was made at 1 billion and 160 million kuna, and only 75% were realised. Late European project Okucani-Novska will likely enter the suspension. On Corridor 5C, the implementation of the reduced investment plan is below 50% while the realisation is less than 35% compared to the first plan. These are just some data and effects of these measures taken by the government in the HH system. In the last three years, however, we need to establish that these discussions failed to encourage the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to systematically change the relations of this segment of transport in the Republic of Croatia. We have been witnessing three years of changes that have not made HZ a better and more profitable society, a more secure form of transport in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about railways, we need to keep in mind the redistribution of 60 limes from the price of gasoline, a number of days of guarantee to HZ, a great possibility of absorbing EU funds that strongly favour exactly rail transport, there should also be counted their own revenues as well as budget support but also the overall inherited state. After three years of SDP authorities, management and problems on HZ look the same if not worse three years ago. That's our attitude. Money is spent, and the effect and results are weak. We are in a position to interpret as a great success several tens of kilometers of built railways inherited from the former government, to announce the spectacular beginning of some new shares, to testify about improvisation in the construction of the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway. The head of the Commission for the construction of this stock is today the commission of Croatian Railways, and in Croatian Railways is Mr Zoran Milanović. What's going on and what's going on there, nobody knows. I tried to find some data because we are not all totally blind that for a long time we have not seen that the Commission for the Railways chaired by Mr Milanovic does not work at all or has met more precisely in these three years by what I have three times, once a year. The decisions of the committee taken, the removal of the trail of the low-level rails full of profile and the proposal to take for so-called. Mountain route i.e. One improvisation we're going to do a little uniformly, a little bi-colossal, a little electrified, etc. Construction of HBOR-funded passenger trains with unpopular interest, although there have been specific EU suggestions that some 50% of the grants could be obtained in the international tender. A decision was made to sell HZ Cargo to a Romanian investor, but we saw ourselves infamously failed, no one was responsible for it. Milanovic's Commission for Railways and Government directly endangers Croatia's geo-traffic position with its inaction, and it is a favourable geo-traffic position. The depths of the sea of Luke Rijeka and the proximity of Central Europe cannot be taken for granted for years as some eternal advantage over others because others are investing and others are trying. These are no longer enough factors for Luka Rijeka to exceed the competitive ports, we simply have to invest. What is the position of Luke Rijeka in relation to the wider context and the changes already taken place by the entry of China into the Greek port of Piraeus, which will remain there until 2045 and the development of the competitive ports of Kopar and Trieste, HZ, private railway operators, Adriatic ports, above all the port of Rijeka, river ports and the European Transport Strategy, which has determined of its 9 main corridors that two pass through Croatia. In recent times, we have testified that the Croatian government was giving guarantees to HZ, a billion and 915 million kunas last year were transferred to public debt. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia last week was here to discuss it, in three years this government grew by 154 billion at the end of 2011. At 255 billion at the end of 2014, 101 billion kuna. And the question is, what did we spend all that money on? And finally, to conclude this debate with one famous saying that is often used in this House, and as far as HH is concerned, it seems that this law, with such provisions as he planned, simply fits into that saying, "My care goes to someone else." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98470	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98471	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly pointed out how inconclusive it is for the Government to discuss this law by an urgent procedure in the fact that in this same law, the Government leaves itself a period of five years for the adoption of sublegal acts in order to implement or implement the law, you have made it quite right. In order not to remain concerned about the government's obligation under the Law on Railways in the section concerning the construction of a national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure, the deadline was last July. Therefore, not as counterpart Linic said July this year but July last year, so the government is late in the part. But when it comes to strategic documents that define the development of traffic in the Republic of Croatia, you know very well that last year the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia has been discussed, that the government and Mr. Minister have promised us that this strategy will be discussed in the Parliament in September of last year, since the five months have passed, the strategy has not been discussed in the Assembly. More or less, it should serve as a basis for the signing of a partnership agreement with the EU and for the adoption of operational programmes, as well as an operational programme that would define the development and construction of rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the question can be rightly raised whether the reason not for the planned 2 billion million in rail infrastructure as planned to invest HZ infrastructure and not only 30% of the plan was implemented, the reason and the lack of these strategic documents which are the basis for the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98472	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98473	Thank you very much. That is right, fellow Bačić, the lack of strategic documents is the reason why we do not withdraw large amounts of funds that are available to us. So I return you to the Proposal for a Law on Regional Development when we discussed it, when I made it clear that the counties were once again based on the direction of the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds had to extend the value of the duration of their own strategies for a year to be in a position to plan or withdraw funds from the European Union at all. So it just doesn't work, not just in this ministry, but in all the others it brings us to this story that spins every day where we warn that it's not working, but on the other hand there's optimism and it says here's all it's all there is we just haven't taken. For five years, I don't really remember a single legal act that gave itself a five-year term. The Directives that bring this into line, I read them, say 1.7.2015, have all legal and sublegal acts in line with these Directives. What will someone tell us in 2020 about the interoperability of Croatian Railways and Security and we are driving, i.e. Everything works by regulations and regulations from the old law. Is that true? So I think we have to motivate ourselves, I don't know why the minister allows it. So if there's some possibility that it gives you, I don't know, it's possible, a directive or I'm the process where you have to coordinate with the European Commission or with all their bodies, so it's going on, etc., but where it's 5 years, so give yourself two years, a year, let's motivate ourselves to do something because otherwise, everything goes away. The strategy of traffic development probably again, we have a deadline maybe next year, we also had the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, that's the one that was supposed to be Christmas 2013, so Christmas 2014, we'll probably, here we are finally in the process. So one nelado that obviously and the railroad system simply collapses.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98474	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98475	Thank you. Here's an esteemed colleague in your debate, you've cited several examples of poor safety of rail traffic that I haven't heard of before, perhaps by mistake, to justify their claim that the situation in the system's security is much worse than it was in 2011 and before. Well, I hate to recall the events that you obviously forgot from 2009 when the train jumped out of the tracks and when 6 people died and 55 were injured because then HDZ's famous barbeque Lukin Ivica Medak blamed the accident for using the then completely wrong means of destroying the weeds on the tracks. Indeed, if you have followed this news about the railway system, you can see that funds from the European Union are still being used to rebuild railways. For example, I can see where last year's entire summer has been working on setting up new rail tracks on the route from Long Sela, Sesveto to the Main Station, which certainly increased much more security than it was before and on a number of other railway routes is improving safety and certainly this kind of accident that happened then and for reasons like this today is certainly not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98476	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98477	Thank you very much. My colleague Pandek, I've only read you some titles I've found, many more. There have been bounces in this term, etc., fortunately without casualties. I listed a tragic one that occurred at the railway crossing of Purine between the island and Spacheva where the driver, mother and two children died. It's a warning and I know, I also found that the minister said that he would take 50 million kunas, that he would try to do something at road crossings at those road crossings, that he would take money from business banks and try to get back. It's up to us to discuss this problem, but when we talk about security, if we've given ourselves the motivation for 5 years, then that security looks like the motivation we gave ourselves a year and a half ago when we discussed this law in 6 months 2013, where we wrote down deadlines in which the minister should adopt a sublegal act and didn't pass. It means it's not working. And then we drive, i.e. We operate on rules that are old and we introduce new directives that say something else. Are we trying to figure them out? That's why I said we're putting the engine in the Mercedes body and trying to drive and it's not going to work. We don't have to be mad at the criticism, but the commission led by the Prime Minister himself obviously in these three years or four years' term has failed to make this system a better system than we had, and it shows its shortcomings with numbers, which is a decline in passenger traffic and a fall in freight traffic. Not a bit, but a whole 25%. So if that's okay with you, I can accept it, for us at HDZ, it's a bad situation. And money and money were spent. Only 2 billion guarantees have been turned into public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98478	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, counterparts Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98479	Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System. In fact, we are first and foremost in line with the legislation of the European Union, as a rule all clubs or most of us in Parliament supported all the amendments and additions that went in this direction simply because we have adopted the rules of the game and are probably some, I hope that they are aware that we have been a member of the European Union for some time. So I think that there should be no dispute over that part, the more these proposals go precisely for the purpose of preserving and improving the safety of the Republic of Croatia's railway system in accordance with, of course, the requirements of the European Union. And I must mention that although this law allows for the adoption of regulations and sublegal acts within 5 years, our system still operates according to the rules that we will change according to these amendments, but you must also know as we have often known here to warn that the adaptation of the system is also necessary for the adjustment of the system in the Republic of Croatia and in some other areas it is necessary during a certain period of time. In fact, the fact that the amendments or the adoption of the regulations are adopted within 5 years will also allow our systems to be adapted within that time period, aware of the fact that at this moment our railways are not at the level of security or at the level of the standards that most Western European rail systems have at the moment and that in this part we will give this time period of adjustment that we will enable through investments that will go through the European Union funds, and that they should take place from this year until 2020, that this whole system will be improved and that, in accordance with this, we will then adopt the regulations that will eventually sanction this system if it does not comply with this law. So when we bring something that pushes us into certain obligations, then we always look for and cry out to the government and to the competent ministries that they have not advocated some period in which they will be able to adapt to this new system, right now when we have that possibility, and despite the rules that exist today, namely the rules on the safety of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia exist, however, our system of course requires significant investment to be in the standards provided for in the European Union. Of course, there was the most talk about the situation in the Croatian Railways. We all know that some of the start of restructuring in the Croatian Railways started in 2008, but here at this point that already in 2015 we cannot be satisfied with everything that has been done, but we cannot say that nothing has been done because I have information here about the situation in HZ-Infrastructure which may be the most important, there will of course be the biggest investments. So some indicators here say that it is not true that this government has done nothing or that Croatian railways have done nothing during this period, so I will just say some information. I suppose we can trust the original data of the HZ-Infrastructure Administration where, in 2006, when it comes to otherwise the efficiency of railways or railway infrastructure, then it is often taken an indicator of the number of employees per km, so this employment per km in 2006, it is ugly to speak 2.8 but about 3 workers per km to be 2 workers per km in 2013. This is not a big jump, but if we look all the years from 2006 to 2013, then you have a decline going 2.8, 2.7, 2.7, 2.5, 2.5 to 2011 and then from 2011 you have a decline to 2.4 in 2013 to 1.98, which means that something has been going on since 2011, not enough, but the assessment is that we can't actually reduce the number of workers per km in Croatian railways until it invests more significantly in infrastructure, or until we enter these funds. Simply the number of workers compensates for the lack of complete system, i.e. insufficient investment in the system. Next, when we talk about the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is invested in the ongoing operations of HZ-Infrastructure, then also in 2007 and 2008 over a billion kuna in order to make this 515 million kuna in 2013, which means that this Government is very much from 2011 to 2013 from a billion to 515 million national budgets for the current operations of HZ-Infrastructure. For investments, it also means from 2007 and 2008 where some billions of kuna were approaching, 2013. 317 million kuna. However, so that it doesn't turn out now that nothing has been invested in HZ-Infrastructure you have new information, which is total investment. Total investments in the years until 2011 were actually equal to state budget support, and since 2011, you have a growth of around 2013 billion and a half. So the state budget went less, but the investments were bigger, which means it wasn't that it wasn't primarily about savings, and secondly it was about attracting funds from the EU. So much for who did what, or what period it was, and not who did what. I would not like to call anyone here, because we all know that the Republic of Croatia has had one strategic decision that, according to us in the HNS, was an excellent decision, which is to go into the construction of highways as the most important infrastructure project. He's funded as financed, highways are here. But there are also large debts behind these highways, and it is certain that the railways for which a huge investment cycle is foreseen over the next ten years cannot be financed from the state budget, i.e. cannot be financed from the pockets of taxpayers, given the state of finances and debts of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I could say that the whole range of projects is actually in the design phase or when the design is completed and that these are projects that will in the next period, the EU's financial period I am almost certain to withdraw funds and that these funds will come to the right place as regards the Croatian Railways and Infrastructures. At this point, however, colleagues have also pointed to this in previous discussions. We are precisely due to the necessity and restructuring of the Croatian Railways, but also to the state of security, that is to adapt to this very law which we are discussing today, we must make some decisions in which we will ensure one among the funding. On the one hand, among the funding for the provision of extra employees, and on the other hand the most urgent investments that threaten the safety of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm surprised that, despite all of them, they have all the data and today they are, of course, and they are available, did not mention and did not note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia just last week adopted a draft project for the sustainable development of the Croatian railway sector where it envisioned about a billion kuna of debt to the World Bank to solve the worst problems, or those that will bridge this part until the investment cycle from the EU funds begins. And that part predicts a billion kunas, one part to solve the whole series here I can even read there, so for HZ infrastructure 308 million kunas of acceptable costs. Then, HZ Passenger transport 269 million kuna, Cargo 103 million and 600 total eligible costs. Somewhere in March, the World Bank should agree to this loan. In this everything will be solved by some of the most neural points in the infrastructure, some of the cuts on the Rijeka Strip – Champs that I do not now read them all here, rebuilding Ogulin – Moravice, Koprivnica – Botovo, study investment and technical documentation for one part of our railways and this part that goes on severance. So, I think when we talk about the railway process it is a process that will last I would dare say several more medium-term periods to get the railways, the Croatian railways, into the standard of railways that we want, which are the railways of developed EU countries. So I think all of the government's moves and the competent ministry have so far been reasonable. I don't have time to read all the individual projects that are either realised or in the realization phase or are in the design phase but there are tens of them. And whoever wanted to know something about it could have been informed about the pages and the competent ministry, as well as the Croatian Railways, depending on the part that interests him whether it was infrastructure or passenger transport. Of course, we can't be satisfied with the overall situation and the situation, but all we can say today is that in 2015 or 2016, the time of the beginning may be the largest, but certainly strategic infrastructure project for the Republic of Croatia, which is big investment in Croatian railways. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98480	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98481	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I must say that as far as we are concerned in Slavonia and Baranja, given that the item of the agenda, therefore the safety and interoperability of the railway system, we should be absolutely satisfied in Slavonia and Baranja because our lines are almost all shut down, so that the level of security is now at a very high level. People don't have to be afraid of anything, trains aren't there, weed grows. But when it comes to this second part, here's a very interesting term interoperability, so in other words, I don't know why we don't say in Croatian as the ability of the system to communicate with each other with other systems. Then this interoperability of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia is at such a level as not to be able to communicate with other systems but also within the system itself, you don't know who drinks, who pays. So, I'm surprised, and I'm not surprised that you're showing pleasure by reading us these numbers. Of all the things you said, this new assignment, you know what will be accomplished? It's just an assignment. And that would be some use to it, nothing. We'll just be more in charge than we've ever been. And it is not a problem of the Croatian Railways, they are, most often associated with concepts of rentability or inability, then restructuring, etc. It is not a problem for Croatian railways to restructure or make them more profitable than they are. The problem is in the government, the government needs to be restructured or restructured because the highest level of unemployment of any institution in Croatia is the current inability of this government or the relationship between what they are doing and how much it costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98482	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98483	Well, I'm just trying to be realistic, I wasn't overly boasting or maybe it seems to you that I am. I was just comparing it a little bit, and I was talking about that one too long period, probably too long a period, and the one that goes back and back in the time of the former state, the railroad was as abandoned, in some previous times often treated as one large company that had more social tasks than it had objectively some profitable, commercial, economic significance. And in all of that, so by neglecting that part of that railroad and favoring someone else, it was such a decision in its own time, not being invested enough and being brought where we are. I said in 2008 only some first indications of design and investment are actually thinking about investing in Croatian railways. In 2011, this government came, it went into it more intensely, it's seen from the documents. A whole series of projects have been made, I think I read somewhere that only related to the reconstruction of the Rijeka-Zagreb railway is 11 thousand TOM's various documentation made. So that's, I don't know if we can even figure out what kind of paperwork it is for the reconstruction of railways. With the fact that when it came, there wasn't much to come by. I don't normally like to talk about what some exes did because they did the same thing, they didn't do it, they didn't do the roads and other things, but they didn't do it. And now you show it as some kind of disaster, no. Let's step forward, we started to work seriously to make a big investment in Croatian railways in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98484	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98485	Thank you very much. You said your colleagues were projects, major projects, dozens of Croatian railway projects. And when it comes to projects, first of all, we always think and think about either modernization or construction of railways in the Republic of Croatia. For how long it's been said, I guess for tens of years about that river-Zagreb railway at IV. The corridor for Koprivnica, Hungary, the Czech Republic, etc., has none of that. So you tell me, if you can tell me, when was the last track in the Republic of Croatia built? Here I'll tell you to remind you if you don't know the 1967 Knin-Zadar railroad. It's the last built rail in the Republic of Croatia. And this scribble that I would say medically, so we're going to fix this signal device there, so we're going to invest it in Slavonski Brod and we're going to paint a little bit of the station as it's said in a shocking way, so we're going to redecorate it a little bit to make it look like something. So believe me, even in HH administration, they're very often afraid of big investments for some other reason, you know them better than I do. And as far as I'm concerned, you also mentioned your Prime Minister Cacic going down the highways, how he's starting to feel today. We feel very good about it. They'll feel both your children and my children and your grandchildren and my grandchildren and everyone. Now comes the annuity of 3.5 billion. It's easy to make a freeway on your way to foreign banks and those who gave credit, right? That's easy. That's how my grandma Peyusha could do the highway without a problem. I'm in charge and I'm in charge and I'm still getting the good stuff and I'm getting the money out of it, right? So don't mention your Prime Minister and highway, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98486	Thank you. Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98487	I have already said that I am no one's lawyer or want to be here, but I think the government's decision was the right decision in the early 2000s and the continuation of all other governments that went towards building Croatia's highways and those that were inconclusive. One of the most inert is the one going through Slavonia. And surely no one in Slavonia today would give up that highway if they had called it in a referendum if that road was gone. So I think that decision was right and I think we have both a way out and a solution to the road problem. But of course she's also being attacked from all sides. You said I said there were a lot of projects under way. Well, I'll read some. New railway Subsident-Samobor, reconstruction Long Village-Novinska, two colossium sections of the railway Križevci-Koprivnica. Of course it's all segments, it's all segments, but I think it's safe that all the projects won't be able to start at the same time not just because there's no money or there's no money for it, but it's simply impossible to start building all the railways at the same time and all the railways in the Republic. Electricalisation of the railway Zaprešić-Zabok, reconstruction of the electrification of the Vinkovci-Vukovar railway. It's not a little project. There's a colleague gone, but the important thing is that he gave me a replica, so then there's no point in me answering when I don't have a coma.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98488	Peter Baranovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98489	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Đuric, this replica I have come up with is not a desire to be maligned and incorrect to the current government, nor to specifically get out of the context of what an individual former government has failed to do because if we want to deal with politics responsibly, then we must take matters into account realistically. Croatian railways have been abandoned for several decades. And today we have an absurd situation that trains are more late than they are expected to last from point A to point B. Today we have a situation that trains and the state of Croatian railways are one of the main factors of Croatian ports' incompetence and it is clear that we have to identify ourselves in this home that I personally believe should be the most responsible point of Croatian politics, unfortunately in practice it is not so, that we should determine what Croatia wants with railways and for the sake of these people living on the railways and their future that we should not lie to them or ourselves, and for the sake of the vital interests of this country. In your presentation, you mentioned a number that is quite impressive especially when it comes to the fact that you said that all investments in previous years were actually the support that was being poured into the good old custom of us Croats to take from those who are healthy and give and throw into a well without the bottom. You said a billion kunas and 500 million kunas were invested in Croatian railways. I would be extremely happy for all of us in this assembly to get accurate information, if you have to tell us, how many new locomotives have been bought, how many miles of new tracks have been made and by what priorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98490	Hope Turina-Đuric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98491	Comrade Baranovic, I agree with most of what you said. Croatia is really missing a big investment momentum in infrastructure and what is the decision of this government and its programme and its efforts to be infrastructure in railways, Croatian railways. However, as I said, these are projects that do not occur overnight, given their comprehensiveness, complexity, necessary documentation and a whole series of factors that need to be matched in order to make what I usually popularly say "We can bury the first hack" and start something and really realize what the eye is visible and what is visible to our citizens, finally and voters visible. This part that I was talking about investment, i.e. what is invested, can be found on the Croatian Railways pages, i.e. HZ infrastructure. It's the management's report, and I'm guessing that as a parliamentary representative, you won't have a problem with it, and I can give it to you in a parliamentary break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98492	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98493	Thank you very much. In fact, a colleague in her presentation often spoke about who did what. So is it a question of who didn't even work? But looking at the City of Osijek, looking at HZ then I can conclude that we often like to praise or share certain institutions with which we cooperate or do not cooperate. When we praise it usually be Croatian waters, and when we tarnish the example of precisely inoperableness, the model does not work, no investment has always been often HZ. Well, a while ago, my colleague touched the suspension of the lines and the security of traffic in Slavonia and Baranja. Well, it's just that a large number of abolished lines clearly indicate that the availability of our citizens in Slavonia and Baranja is not such that they can go to school, that they can go to work, those who are still working. So HH didn't invest anything. And I will specifically quote you for the City of Osijek in the last 102 years HH did not invest in anything in the City of Osijek even though we often wrote letters of intent, suggested. So when we start at that station in Osijek that's from the 18th century, and we've made an archduke that's certainly for the 21st, I'd say for the 22nd century. Thus, when we look at the railroad, when we watch CARGO transport, when we watch the passenger transport of Slavonia and Baranja is greatly devastated in the past years. And when I say this for 102 years, that means not only this government but all those last governments didn't feel the need to invest in railways in Slavonia and Baranja. And I hope finally that someone will wake up and finally start writing projects and use European funds to make the investment of Croatian Railways in Slavonia and Baranja, connecting with our ports and using it just when we talk about CARGO transport, as well as returning certain lines that can certainly be competitors to bus transport in the space of Slavonia and Baranja. So we need to be operational, and HZ is currently a system of inoperability. So when you ask yourself who did what HH did, he didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98494	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98495	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System. So here's the big problem with HH I'm going to try to focus or stop and talk a little bit about this law. In fact, interoperability could be defined as a property of the organisation and their information systems and business processes to cooperate and act coherently to achieve a specific objective, regardless of the organisational ownership of processes, the location of execution and the level of technological support. This would be summed up by introducing provisions of the EU Directives to this law lay down a legal basis for ensuring the adjusted rail system of the Republic of Croatia to the EU rail system in terms of achieving competitive, technological, technical and security standards, however uncoordinated or burdensome the problems in the environment of poor efficiency of the economic environment are not yet identified or, to the end, defined corridors, probably insufficiently, certainly insufficiently, with insufficient quality of infrastructure and the necessary technical standards. So you need to make it competitive. The proposed amendments and additions are carried out to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. The law is in line with two directives that further improve the security of the system and technical harmonisation with the purpose of achieving interoperability in the EU rail system and further technical coherence to reduce obstacles and improve the development of services in the EU rail system and with third countries. The coordination concerns noise pollution, and common safety indicators are also determined with methods of calculating the cost of the accident. Amendments to the law also regulate the question of financing legal status and salaries of employees of the Railway Safety Agency and the compensation of the Agency’s activities, i.e. to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This bill aims to reduce obstacles and improve the development of services in the EU rail system in order to achieve an open European rail market. The area of safety and interoperability of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on the Security of Interoperability of the Railway System, which entered into force in 2013 as of July and in view of the need to comply with EU legislation and the implementation of the EU acquis programme for 2013. That law transposes the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community on the security of the EU's railways. The Law on the Security of Interoperability of the Railway System provides for the safety and interoperability of the railway system, measures for the development and management of safety. Conditions for the interoperability of the EU rail system of the procedures of the railway safety authority and the procedures of the rail accident investigation body, as well as the conditions for safe management and safe running of railways, conditions for carrying out activities, infrastructure manager and railway undertakings, conditions for drivers and other executives, as well as safety control and inspection. Of course, in order to achieve interoperability, there are requirements for investment in infrastructure systems primarily financially, and certainly technologically and organisationally, because strictly understanding a local system that joins another larger system in this case, the EU rail system must be compatible, it certainly assumes investment in infrastructure. something we have heard about in previous discussions and, of course, some have expressed their views on the matter, although I think it may be a better time to discuss when it is discussed at some point and about the development and strategy of HH. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Commission Directive 248/38 of Annex 3 with regard to noise pollution by the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to comply with its legislation by 1 January 2015 at the latest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2014/88 concerning common safety indicators and common methods of calculating the costs of accidents of the Republic of Croatia is required to comply with its legislation by 30 July 2015. The European Commission has carried out an assessment of the Croatian national measures declared as transposing the Directive on the interoperability of the rail system and the Community rail safety directive, and has identified a number of issues related to the transposition of the provisions of those Directives into Croatian legislation. In accordance with the answers provided by the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission by the EU pilot, the necessary amendments to the provisions of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System with a view to a clearer and unambiguous alignment with the provisions of the Directives are made. This is the legislative regulation that we must bring in were our railways in such a state or in such a state, and it would certainly be better if they were in the best way and the easiest way to respond to our society's economic challenge, to the needs of citizens, and, of course, to the harmonisation and to the easy and effective adaptation to the European Community rail system. And here I would highlight some of the changes that were incorporated into this law that I thought I should especially emphasize. Therefore, the amendment of Article 3 provides for the fulfilment of the conditions of safety of the entire rail system by any commercial company providing rail transport, freight or passenger services irrespective of whether it is its primary activity or not. In the same article, paragraph 1 in Article 30, the concept of a railway infrastructure manager is aligned with the concept set out in the Law on Railways, which is that it can be a different legal person. Article 6 is amended as follows: the Agency's obligation to conduct business books and to draw up financial reports in accordance with the rules for budgetary accounting is also prescribed... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Directives are prescribed to ensure that Member States are responsible for the safe operation of the railway system and for the monitoring of risks associated with it lies with infrastructure managers and railway undertakings bound to implement the necessary risk control measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also emphasises the need for mutual cooperation where appropriate to the application of national safety rules and standards and the establishment of a security management system in accordance with the same Directive, i.e. to actively work to prevent and eliminate risk causes, and instead of the concept of risk control, the concept of risk management applies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The safety directive provides that the purpose of the safety solution is to demonstrate that the railway undertaking has established a safety management system and that it meets the requirements set out in the technical specifications of interoperability, in other relevant European Union regulations and in national safety rules with a view to the management of risks and the provision of safety transport services on the rail network. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 22(2)(b) of the Interoperability Directive provides that in the case of a vehicle with all necessary EC declarations of verification of the criteria that national authorities may check with certainty with the purpose of granting an authorisation for use. Amendments to Articles 33 and 34 shall provide for the time limits and procedures and arrangements for the arrangements of railway road crossings at classified and non-classified roads. And I would stop here with some of those changes that, the amendments and the additions that are listed by this law and here, perhaps in the end to achieve these technical conditions, in order to achieve unity regardless of the investments so far, the efforts, regardless of what was necessary for us to bring our system of the Croatian Railways into line I sincerely hope that, with the necessary investments in the railway system of the Republic of Croatia, will be met with standards in terms of interoperability, technical specifications and the functioning of the systems, but also with other requirements prescribed by this law and in order to become an effective system in its own field but also possible integral part of the system, the European Union rail system. The SDP club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98496	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98497	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since 2008 there have been words here that therefore the government which was HDZ and these SDPs, therefore, invest in the railways from the budget and that the total amount when the money is summed up which, therefore, has gone from our taxpayers to the Croatian railways about 15 billion kuna for the past 7 years. So 15 billion kuna. That's where I count the guarantees that someone here doesn't count, but the guarantees were 500 million kunas last year. So it stands out from the price of fuel, so one section that went for the roads is also set aside for the railroad. So you don't mention it, but you should mention things like that. So a total of about 15 billion kuna. What did we get with 15 billion kunas or 2 billion euros? We got a slow, expensive and insecure railroad. Slower than in the former state, more expensive than in the former state and more secure and insecure. When, I go from end to end of uncertainty. When we look at incidents and accidents that happened on the railroad, then it's quite clear from those Rudins and six dead people and dozens of injured until the ignition of the locomotive and the train in Varazdin, until it hits the locomotives in the Gorski Kotar on a pile of land, and then I don't count here what's not. So again in the Rudins there was a leap out of the tracks, so twice, 2009 and 2014. Very interesting yes. Further in Krapina, therefore, the collision of a truck carrying nitrogen acid with a locomotive or with a composition of the Government. On the Vinkovci County track at the road crossing of Spačva, a private vehicle, etc., failed to list further. The railway dispute is therefore quite certain that the speed of Croatian railways is smaller, average less than in the former state and we invest and restructure Zagreb, Dugo Selo, so Dugo Selo-Novska, pa Vinkovci-Tovarnik, so around Rijeka signalling or not I know what not, there are many projects listed here, and we have this situation. The dispute is so much that from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb travels minimally, for at least 4 hours and the bus arrives in 2 hours. The dispute is that from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod and beyond Vinkovci, the biggest hill is the pumpkin, and besides, it is 4 hours' journey to Slavonski Brod-Zagreb. Expensive, more expensive than a bus ticket. Slavonski Brod-Zagreb, the train ticket is more expensive than the bus. And then how do you compete with road transporters? In addition to all our investment in the railway sector, in addition to all the detachments that the state singles out in the railway sector. So do we like the shipyard to make our railroad the same thing as the shipyard, to invest in a bag to say bottomless. Or there will be a repair of the situation on the Croatian railways. I'm saying it's more necessary. Because, I repeat, Bismarck repeatedly said that every country is as strong as its rail network has developed. Bismarck said more. Unfortunately, we obviously don't know that and he doesn't take it seriously. They say the state, here all claim, is a supporter of liberal capitalism, that the state is a bad master. So he doesn't run the state of the railways. What's a state? The state is a nation. The people don't run the railroad. The Government shall be a party or a group of parties headed by the Government or more Governments who ruled the Republic of Croatia. As part of the Partocracy is at work in Croatia, then I accuse all parties who were in power for poor work, for poor governance, for poor investment and for everything that happens on the Croatian railways here. I'm accusing them publicly. Partitocracy or what it is a party or party so they say it is a political definition, an organised group of people who seek political action to win power in order to implement their programme. That's the party or the party. And how she implements the program with the Croatian Railways, none. They set up furniture for administrative people who are unable to manage Croatian railways. So it's not the state's fault, what a state. It's this oligarchy political, party, that puts people who worked in who knows which places, I won't give examples of personal, it's not the order to name people here who did a whole other job, put them as director of HZ-Carg. She's asking around what, how, what's the signal, and I don't know what, who and who was director of HEP, and didn't even know the fuse. That's how it works, that's why we do. That's why we're doing it. The last railroad that was built, I said it was Zadar-Knin in 1967. We can say whatever we want, as we invest, as we worry, how we implement the European Union Directives, how the European Union will invest money in our railways, and what it is worth when this team that came to management, in the management structure of the Croatian Railways, implements permanent nepotism, clientism, javazlu, staffing party or party, does not matter, when it employs in the Croatian railways only what is family and friendly to them, when it spends Croatian taxpayers' money on car purchase, on going on study trips to the USA, to Canada, etc., to see what a ticket control machine looks like, you can think. At the same time, 100,000 jobs depend on the Croatian railway. You may wonder how that is, easily. See what this has to do with all Croatian railways, starting with the ports, our ports, so Ploče towards Metkovic and Split, so the railway towards Zagreb. There is no more Union railways or anyone who mentions the UN railway which was the shortest road to Zagreb, there is no more words about it, although it is partly going through BiH, I must admit. So Sibenik and Zadar, and in particular Rijeka are ports and their port facilities or employees are also closely, closely related to the survival of the Croatian railway. Let's look at our industry, Petrochemy Kutina. The workers of Petrokemia depend on Croatian railways. Let's take a look at the manufacturers. Thank God we had sophisticated production in this country and locomotives and wagons and everything that Gredelj and Đuro Đaković produced and others, but unfortunately you see this government has taken to bankruptcy Gredelj. It is very close to Djuro Djakovic after his business. It has now been inserted through HBOR 130m kuna into Djur Djur Djakovic to be saved. There are 890 workers left, stays in Đura Djakovic, holding talks, with all the companies that are in holding, as well as those special vehicles, tanks, etc. 890 workers of everything. All of this is tied to the Croatian railways, and now the management structure that so mismanages Croatian railways, and it is politically set, is set up, it has no idea that, for example, it has no idea. The bus has a discount for students so students from Slavonski Brod and our Slavonia who are studying in Zagreb can travel to the ixica they spend at the student centre can get a ticket on the bus to Zagreb. They can't get on the railroad, only students, high school students are right. So let the Croatian railway turn simply into the so-called The suburban transport of students can make a profit, then the county and the state then grant grants for the transport of students and let him live on it if he can't do otherwise. So there's no hearing, there's no hearing for this to students either. I'm not just talking about students as one group, but if someone has to travel on a train to Zagreb for 4 hours, unlike a two-hour bus, if they pay for it more expensive and even based news of a little, little incident on the train and of course the road traffic on the railway is falling. He falls all the time. About Slavonia that we are not talking, about the railway that was made in Slavonski Brod, about the abolished track for the Bosnian Ship where oil could be transported in tanks for the Rafineri in the Bosnian Ship, about that there is an industrial track which is also the champion of the cultivation of the mammoth ambrosia because there is not one train that travels from the industrial zone of the Brod to the main station in Slavonski Brod not to speak. About the suspension of the Našice – Caglin – Pleternica railway, that it is gone at all, about the suspension of the railway Sirac – Bjelovar, about the plan to even lift the line Babin Jaruga, the pardon Banov Jaruga – Pakrac. That the railway for Osijek was lifted, and that was the case. And Osijek, the city of Osijek, is making a big plan regarding the resolution of traffic rasomone between the overpasses, underpasses, southern bypasses and crossings with the railway, the street of Leopold Mandić, etc. I've talked about Slavonski Brod and the underpass here a hundred times, about unprotected crossings a million times. It all seems to be in vain. And now we have this legislative proposal that talks about the additions of the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System in which the EU Directives speak about the protection against noise produced by the Croatian Railways, I guess locomotives and wagons, feeding to say. That's one thing. Then, they talk about, therefore, common safety indicators and methods of calculating the costs of the accident. Therefore, compensation for passengers or in the case of the carriage of the burden of the damage caused on the railway. And the third thing that this bill says is about the interoperability of the rail system within the community, so the European Union. And we know that even in Dobova the locomotives are changing because they are not the same to say the wavelength so popularly, so the Croatian locomotive cannot drive further in Dobova, the Slovenian locomotive must come. There's the interoperability of the first example. About tilting, i.e. the dying trains that were purchased at the time of the first SDP government, so they experienced what they had experienced and how they had gone infamous, and we know in what way they were bought and what doubts there are in buying these trains that I do not speak. I could talk a lot more about HZ Cargo and Georgia, which was the main buyer what they would say in Bosnia Kobajaga for HZ Cargo, while blackmailing the Croatian government and Croatian railways with a permanent press release to achieve the lowest price. Nevertheless, the Croatian government was negotiated with the so-called so-called government. Mr. Gruy who is a gentleman today but in Romanian Remitance. Nobody talks about it anymore. The corridors on the tenth and fourth corridors, the two main corridors, the tenth have become the reserve corridor. The corridor no longer goes through Croatia's main, it is no longer called the tenth corridor, it no longer has a slight connection to the corridor. The main corridor, bypassing the entire former Yugoslavia, is heading from Budapest to Romania and has already been built by the largest, largest railway bridge in Europe in the Danube between Romania and Bulgaria and crossing to Bulgaria and continues to go south to Istanbul, Sofia, Istanbul and beyond. So we became a railway periphery precisely with these policies and policies led by the governments of the Republic of Croatia or by the parties that managed the governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98498	Thank you very much. Maria Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98499	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Well, colleague Grubisic, this is only in the interest of the truth. In fact, we travel only in the interest of the truth. Namely, if you and I are traveling on the same train from Osijek in 4 hours, I will arrive in Zagreb, and you from Brod will arrive in 4 hours. Are you going through Međimurje or are we going to the same railroad? I wouldn't rephrase it, but this still needs to be known in the interest of the truth that it's about two hours from the ship, and it's four hours from Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98500	Thank you very much. Yeah, we're not on the same train. Of course, we're not when you're traveling to the Podravski, so the railway, the Podravska railway towards Zagreb and via Koprivnica. And I travel from Slavonski Brod via Novska or via Sisak. So I don't know how we can meet on the same train? We can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98501	Then check through the timetable. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98502	My colleague Grubisic said Osijek has a plan for deniveling Leopold Mandic Street. Not just a plan. Over the years, here I was while I was both mayor and mayor we tried to solve the subject together. However, I mentioned the Croatian waters with which we usually solved all the Croatian railways with which we failed to solve anything, so they usually told us to build a project. We build a project, make an expropriation. So let's also do the expropriation, do the study, and then we'll do the study. So we always do everything we need to do, but when there is a partnership between the city, the county and the normal Croatian railways or the resolution ministries, then it usually stops. But I'm not just looking at what that underpass means, or the denivelization of the Pussy Pass, but every day twenty thousand cars pass that location, and you can imagine what fellow losses are exactly in that location just drivers coming or leaving the city of Osijek. Therefore, not only does HZ not invest in infrastructure, it does nothing on cargo transport, lifts the lines in Slavonia and Baranja, but it also happens to us to wait for years to be partners. I hope that, at least through these European projects, that the Croatian government, either this or the next, will be able to avoid exactly that location and others that are important for Slavonia and Baranja, that through the studies they have proved exactly that this is important for this area that we will manage this issue through common means and joint efforts. But the issue remains exactly the protection of the crossing points, and there are dozens of them, hundreds where people around Slavonia and Baranja die every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98503	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98504	Thank you very much. I, therefore, quoted the adopted traffic study of the city of Osijek, saw here published on Saturday 24 January, so very fresh news, where it is planned to take over, which is the underpass, which is exactly the street of Leopold Mandić. And I am glad that the city of Osijek has brought about the resolution of its traffic problem as it has been these seven years in the Assembly trying to impose the theme of the underpass in Slavonski Brod on Osječka Street D423, so the national road 423, on which about the same 20,000 vehicles wait every day for fuel consumption but above all also the nerves of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98505	My colleagues and fellow ministers have asked if we can absorb this point since there are certain obligations this afternoon, and there are no deputies, so I suggest we streamline the debate a little bit and we will extend the debate beyond 13:30. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98506	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates the safety and interoperability of the rail system, the development and security management measures and the conditions for achieving the EU rail system. All the procedures of the Railway Safety Agency, the procedures of the investigating body for the investigation of railway accidents and the conditions for carrying out the activities of infrastructure manager and railway undertakings, the conditions for the driver and other executive workers, and the supervision of safety and inspection. These amendments and additions will implement further harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with EU legislation to ensure further preservation and improvement of the security of the Republic of Croatia's rail system in line with EU requirements and improve technical compliance and improve the development of services in the EU rail system, as well as with third countries. On 10 March last year, the European Commission adopted a directive on noise pollution under which the Republic of Croatia had an obligation to comply with its legislation by 1 January 2015. I don't know if that date is wrong, and if it isn't, did we make that commitment? Article 8a of the EU Directive provides that Member States shall ensure that liability for the safe operation of the rail system and risk control lies with infrastructure managers and railway undertakings which, by working with each other, apply national safety rules and standards to establish a safety management system in accordance with this Directive. Infrastructure managers and railway undertakings shall monitor the risk and actively work to prevent and eliminate the cause of the risk. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the law are all about the safety of passengers and freight using the railway as a means of transport. In 2000, Croatian railways launched a preventive and educational action "The train is always faster" aimed at how children behave along the railway and what are the dangers in the game or crossings across the railway line. In view of the significant number of accidents and deaths especially at railway and road crossings, such action should, above all, also be organised for road drivers. Despite constant and expensive investments in devices to ensure these crossings, accidents continue to occur. For example, in 2011, 15 people died at those crossings, and 10 of them on those where traffic was secured by security-light devices. In spite of the chronic lack of financial resources, Croatian railways have heavily protected railway-road crossings where the worst accidents occur depending on the categorisation of the road. The safety level is determined by the legal rules which specify exactly what level of safety must exist at certain railway and road crossings. According to the existing signalling, the train always has the advantage. As a result, it is only possible to talk about that a road vehicle flew under a train or even ran into a train, not as in the media that the train ran into a motor vehicle. In recent years, there have been many lost young lives for walking along the rails and earphones. Some 58 thousand accidents occur on roads in Croatia and die on average about 600 people. Of that number, 10 percent at the train and road crossings. In 99% of the cases, it's the lack of attention of a road driver, and the reflection of events in public is that it's the railroad. How impatient the drivers of road vehicles are and how often they are in a hurry and in death show data from broken bumpers, semi-defenders. In 2009, 706, 2010. 613, 2011. 572, and 2012. 537. What you can see is the trend is falling. Other articles of this law prescribe procedures in case of accidents, obligations of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings in cases of accidents, investigations of serious accidents such as several of us. I believe that all of us would be happier to have as few opportunities as possible to apply these articles and to be as few accidents as possible, especially with fatal consequences. So far, I've talked mostly about passenger safety and accidents that often happen in rail-road traffic. The speed of travel that today is significantly smaller can be discussed in the same critical way. Here we come to the most important problem of Croatian railways, which is the infrastructure which has been neglected for the sake of road construction for too many 20 years. Here's my colleague today told me that something is still being done on the railways, today a tender for the Gradec-Tubno railway is being announced, the Zagreb-Dugo Selo railway line, Koprivnica-Botovo is being reconstructed, and we hope that the long Selo-Križevci will be on its way. I'm on a train every week, and frequent delays with passengers are the most annoying. Workers are late for work, students for lectures and exams, pensioners for arranged items and a hospital shoot. The neglected infrastructure also damages the economy. direction Rijeka-Koprivnica, the international border is a narrow throat for transporting passengers from Rijeka to Central Europe. Without better maintenance and modernisation of rail infrastructure, our railways cannot handle higher speeds because it would endanger travel safety. The modern composition of trains doesn't help us much on the old stripes. As a result, the economy has serious damage to freight transport. The consequences will also be shown in the coming years when competition will use our incompetence regardless of the expertise of our railways. These harmonisation measures with the European railway system are good and the Croatian Contracting Parties' club will support them but the basic condition to adapt to the Croatian Railways system as soon as possible the conditions prescribed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98507	Thank you, too. And counterpart Petar Baranovic on behalf of the New Wave DC Club and the People's Party of Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98508	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues before us is a law that actually aims to accept the work of the EU acquis relating to regulation in rail transport. And if we look at it only as material then they can agree with previous colleagues and colleagues who said part of it is what we have committed ourselves as a country to accept. It's basically a technical document and we'll of course support it. However, of course the debate did not come down to the fact that we must accept the European standards that we as a Member State of the EU are obliged to do, but to thank God I would say open the debate on what is the essence of things. Finally, the legal matter that the EU is talking about, we accept it, it talks about traffic security and we, of course, have reached out to know what condition the Croatian railways are in, or at least, a hunch of Croatian railways and those concerning the competitiveness of Croatian railways, their importance, the situation in which they are abandoned. As a young high-school student, I was taught in traffic knowledge, I think that's what it was called, that the cheapest kind of traffic is maritime traffic, that railways are going after it, then road traffic. And according to that, of course, countries that logically look at things, nations that logically look at things and refer to things, and then you see that, for example, maritime transport has shifted so many and so many billions of tons a year, that the railway shifts significantly less but still a respectable figure, by less road, etc. etc. This is the case with nations that see things well, and therefore take care of their interests and the infrastructure needed to make things work according to the principle of common sense and economics. What is happening in Croatia is that in Croatia railways de facto no longer exist. What remains is the reliquiae reliquiarum railways and it is hundreds of light-years away from what is the real needs of the Croatian economy and what is the national interest of the Adriatic port of Split, Sibenik, Zadar which is slightly more aware of what is actually based on the use of road traffic for the accumulation of overloaded cargo and distribution further. The river is once the main eastern Adriatic port today leaned on a railway that travels from Rijeka to Budapest as many hours as 100 years ago. We're here somewhere, Mr. Minister. What do you say to those things? There have been attacks by other political parties and apostrophe of this government. You need to be correct. In the 20s, if we correctly look at that period of four, five war years when nothing really could be done, we did nothing serious, nothing concise, nothing consistent at all, we atrophed the energy sector, we atrophed in the agriculture sector, we deindustrialized the country, so we ruined traffic with the exception of the road network. Everything else is my mother. How do you expect the Adriatic ports to see an increase in overloaded cargo, not a radical fall? Luka Sibenik 25 years ago I mean record-loaded millions of 700 or 800 thousand tons, today they live at 500 thousand tons and when the ship comes illustrations of the state of HZ, especially HZ Cargo. When a 30 thousand-ton boat arrives from Kutina, it brings one 3.5 4 thousand then the boys to the elevators and the grails, the cranes, the portals slowly throw out the readings and then everything stands, the cranes stand, the elevators stand, everything stands, and then by playing the case knowing Director Luke Sibenik I ask him what it is, he says we can't be followed by HZ Cargo. It's a late load. This is the real truth about Croatia, the real truth that it cannot stand a finger in this government either, because the previous governments whose representatives are now crying about the need for investment in HZ Cargo have invested in the Handball Arena. So we ask the question of how long did we invest these money to improve rail transport in Croatia? Thank God. What is it for us ladies and gentlemen to do? It is important for us to take on more important topics such as HZ, Croatian energy, Croatian agriculture more detailedly informs this House and to take on this House more than it has now, which is to be the House in which some 15 MPs sit on this topic, of which perhaps some 7.8 are focused on the topic and debate, while others are slowly surfing the Internet, making phone calls and actually giving a sad picture. It's not just the railroad. The security in rail transport in the Republic of Croatia has been talking about investment, I don't know if the minister corrects me if I misrepresented those figures, the budget for this year compared to last year has reduced the investment rate in railway crossings or crossings and crossings between railway lines and road network. If I'm missing, I apologize. The safety of rail transport in Croatia is naturally in correlation with the state of the rolling stock and with the state of the railway lines. The railway tracks are our mother and the trains are starting to drive all this slower on some of the connections, and as far as the machine park is concerned, let's call it so I'm not an expert on rail traffic, so if there's any lapus excuse me, another train of Canadian women who were amortized at the time when I'm playing the frying game, when I was small, just so small. What perspective do HZ have if Canadians are still our backbone especially of Cargo rail transport? Does anyone know who's some middle standard in this segment of rail traffic in the world? How old are the average locomotives in the surrounding countries, how old are they on average in EU countries, what is the global average, and where are we and what is happening to us? How and how to return passenger traffic when, for example, data extracted today by bus from Rijeka arrive in 2.5 hours, by rail in 4.5 hours, and the thing to be the worst price of the cheapest ticket by private bus carrier is 40 kuna, HZ 118. Our trains are empty, our tracks are abandoned, our system for loss. In previous years, we have been closing these holes by subsidising and spilling money from the state budget, investing more significantly, I hold that, we will support this law in the club, but I do think it would be very good for the Ministry and the Minister of Resorship to present my proposal to him and the presidents of the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships to hold one thematic session to present a real state of financial, technical, humane, perspective and present some investment priority to see as parliamentary representatives who should be responsible in this country what happens for HZ, and then to what happens in general with this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98509	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now we'll have a break by 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98510	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 779. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the honourable deputy minister, Zdenko Antesic, to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98512	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 82 votes in favour, 25 abstentions and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Then, in line with the proposal of the Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, I am voting for the following conclusion: "1. By the end of March, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to sub-data the Croatian Parliament on the restructuring of HZ CARGO and the measures for the resolution of dubiosis and losses in HZ CARGO." Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to deliver by the end of March the dynamics of the national railway infrastructure programme as well as the draft contract on the management of railway infrastructure to the Croatian Parliament. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the proposal did not go through, did not get the required majority, 38 votes for and 1 abstention and 67 votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98513	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It is before us: - Proposal for a Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 772; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. With us on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Maja Sporish. Deputy lead, here you go. Just turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98514	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The need for the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons stems from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international and national documents. The need to settle the issues which are subject to this law has also been consistently demonstrated at expert and scientific gatherings related to the phenomenon of hearing damage. This law will lay down the right of deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties where, due to functional damage to speech communication, it is difficult to use, inform and education in the Croatian sign language and other communication systems that meet their individual needs and for the purpose of equating access to the social, economic and cultural environment, and to enable the equal achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. Users under this law will be entitled to benefit from all forms of communication of deaf and deaf persons, i.e. all forms of support in the form of a professional, communication mediator in all life situations and in the bodies of the state administration, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority in all situations where deafness and blindness would be an obstacle to equalising the possibility of action and exercise of rights. This law will ensure the right to use appropriate forms of support for deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties where functional damage to speech communication makes it difficult or impossible to exist. Coordinate the form of support in communication with individual user needs, recognise the Croatian sign language as the original language of the deaf and deaf community by respecting the language and culture of the deaf. To define and define systems of communication between deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties, hence Croatian Sign Language and other communication systems based on Croatian language. Deaf and deaf persons and other people with communication difficulties where functional damage to speech communication makes it difficult or impossible to access social, economic and cultural environments. To enable users under this law of education, access to information and communication in order to achieve equal rights and fundamental freedoms that they consume and persons without damage to hearing or seeing. In addition to representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Working Group on Draft Bills were also representatives of the University of Zagreb Educational Rehabilitation Faculty and representatives of civil society organisations. The ministry conducted two public consultations with the public and the public interested in drawing up this draft bill. At both round tables, participants expressed great satisfaction with this legislative proposal. The representatives of deaf persons stressed the importance of the law since the sign language has so far been recognised but not recognised in the Republic of Croatia, and stressed that all forms of communication of deaf and deaf persons have been listed in the bill as opposed to most countries that recognise only sign language as a form of communication between deaf and deaf persons. To implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, since this law does not guarantee the financing of the service but only guarantees the right to use the system of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia but we have resolved the financing in a different way. In order to enable deaf and deaf persons to participate actively in the life of the community since 2008 it has started to provide the services of sign - language interpreters through projects in collaboration with associations of deaf and deaf people. Since 2012, the number of insured providers has increased extensively and has since 2013 been provided through three-year programmes, meaning funding through tenders, by hiring 52 interpreter interpreters in cooperation with 27 deaf and deaf organisations in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia for which funds from part of the gambling revenue amounting to slightly more than 3.5 million kuna per year have been provided. The possibility of spreading this service to deaf and deaf organisations is secured through a tender for the dissemination of a network of services in the community in 2014 and will, of course, be ensured further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98515	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Deputy, my replica will refer to or be a question. Today, unfortunately because of the disorganization of the service in the Assembly, representatives of the Association of the Alliance, the Croatian Alliance of Deaf Persons, the Alliance of Deaf Persons of the City of Zagreb, came from the Association of Touchers and the Association of Professional Communications Interpreters, however, unfortunately today they are not here but that they did not come here but this is a topic which we can really say is of interest to at least 12 thousand people, or to whom this law will be very helpful without talking about family. I wonder why today could not be organized in the media transmission means sign Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98517	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98518	I really don't know why the media couldn't ensure the transfer of this, it's not the Ministry's intelligence, but what I want to point out is that the representatives of the associations you mentioned were members of the task force who worked on this law the whole time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98519	Thank you. And another replica, Hope Murganic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98520	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputys, here's my replica, and it's going to be on the trail of this previous one, and it's about that sentence that you're attached to the follow-up, after I've raised the call for replication and reasoning, and it's about the funds that are not secured in the state budget for the implementation of this law. I would like to stress immediately that I do not intend to express this in the form of criticism but perhaps one incentive, given that the fact is that among associations, therefore, among the interested public and among the professional public, this law is indeed welcomed and very significant progress in communication and integration of persons with these difficulties is generally in everyday life. But regardless of what you have stated that there are different competitions and ways of education I don't think that would remain that law as a dead letter on paper if and given the ministry because it is still the most competent, it is made more sure that these translators are truly educated because they are not translators. You also know who only know how to use sign language, that it is one special language, a special culture and a special world, that 52 translators really won't be enough. Whether they will be only for those in the ministry where translation is necessary, I think that for full socialization they should be included everywhere, in schools and kindergartens, and this media world should certainly be accompanied by real educated translators.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98521	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98522	Well, there are more things you mentioned, so I'll do it in a row. As far as funding is concerned, the fact that it is 3 years of funding means that programme funding is secured by a certain continuity. As regards support in primary school, i.e. in school education, communicators enter through the Continuing Assistant Regulations in such a way as to ensure this. And as for the number of communicators means translators, we can say that we have made a really significant leap with 52 currently educated in disposition compared to several years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98523	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linić, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98524	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Sporish with her associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Right away, our club will support this law, but I also have some questions. What my colleague twilight just asked was different from what I realized. It would make sense to me today that we have an interpreter or translator here when it comes to this law. It is quite logical and it should not be provided by the media, but it should be the Croatian Parliament when it comes to this.... That already shows what our approach to this problem is. I'm afraid that this law, every law where something is changed, changes here, as much as you say that the financing of the services of the interpreters is being implemented in another way, something costs and everywhere it says that nothing costs for that law, the implementation of that law is not the means, that means it's a public deception. It would make sense to me that when it comes to this problem of being united in one law, that people who have big problems communicating with society have at least laws that concern them in one place. When I read this law, it's quite logical, it's human, but what it means is the implementation of that law. It is as if we are passing the Law on the use of Italian language and say that Italian translators are available but we do not say where they are. A short time ago, my colleague Murganic spoke of 52 translators, or interpreters, not enough. What it means is when a deaf person or a deaf person with needs goes into the community, when they go to a counter, when they need to communicate, which is the obstacle to it. Whether that law or those laws earlier allow these obstacles to be overcome, whether we are a society that creates more obstacles or removes those obstacles. This law only speaks of what is allowed, what is allowed, which is prescribed, but not as you have told the distinguished deputies to regulate the ways in which it will be financed by other laws. However, we know that these other laws do not provide enough rights for people who have needs that do not mean people who are not deaf, who see can not exercise their full rights not only because they are poor society, but because we are not taking care of these people. So, even though our club will support this law because there is no illogicality other than the illogicality in which it will be provided, which means communication with other people is less of a problem than communication with the state, with state bodies. So, with the needs of everyday people when they leave to solve some of their problems. 52 interpreters, quite certainly, are insufficient, and already skipping the first obstacle to what I said at the very beginning, see how this will normally be done when we have not provided here in the Assembly, we have not even thought about it as quotes in order to be quite correct, to be humane and to show good will to solve problems that we have an interpreter here. I think this is going to be from my childhood and other club members another supported dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98525	Thank you. We have two replicas, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98526	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Yeah, you said it right. The Croatian Parliament was supposed to provide an interpreter. If not, then at least she should have reminded the deputy from the ministry since she knows what the subject is. I'll repeat once again that the people of those organizations were here this morning. Unfortunately, no one in the assembly, these organizations that deal with the people who come didn't tell them you won't make it in the first part, but come to the second part. And what I wanted to say about the funds and in the legislation that the deputy lady has well-listed and I share your fear of law enforcement, even though we will also support it at the HDZ Club. Let's say we have a law on HRT. So now it's a huge and big story where you really don't just need cooperation, but you need more resources to separate. Which is why people with deaf, deaf persons only have an 888 opportunity, possibly but not deafly blind, but see deaf people seeing a title that is absolutely not suitable for what is happening on television. Except sign language, we only see in shows that refer to people with disabilities or other problems. Don't people want to follow you on any political show, don't they want to know what's going on in the world of culture, what's generally going on in the world, what's going on in Croatia? When the campaign was now chaired, there was no sign language anywhere, so secure on HRT. Why should this be of no interest to persons who are used in sign Croatian language? Now there's this one I'm not going to say sensitivity, it's just a matter of respect for the law. Mr. Radman said he'd talk about it. to work, but to this day, nothing has been done. [[Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Sumrak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98527	Replication response, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98528	Dear colleagues of Sumrak, we spoke about this one hundred times in the Croatian Parliament about the function of Croatian Radio Television. I thought about it, here's how she forgot to talk, and that's how she treats people with disabilities. Any news on the Croatian broadcasting of the central at least if not the midnight ones should be, so we have several breaking moments during the day. That's the midday news, that's the 19:30 news, and another news should be safe with an interpreter. It should be the key emissions of political, but also cultural, as well. Just as a society, we have no right to say we don't have any money for it. It's too expensive. Croatian broadcasters have too much money and throws shovels at unnecessary things. First it went to buy every director who comes first to technology, and I doubt why technology is bought first, why technology is being bought. The other thing is, what you were saying about how you approached deaf people today. They were not told you will not come in the morning in order, but Mr. Hrvatin was told he would be in the order tomorrow morning at half past ten, because he is the person of the first category. There are persons second, third, fourth and fifth categories in Croatian society. Well, therefore, we often act hypocritically. We can't even order, prescribe Croatia's broadcasting that it must meet those obligations it has made, and it has taken over those obligations. And when we ask it in the Croatian Parliament to take these obligations, then they say simply what should we do? To replace the principal. However, the principal will not be replaced because they know that the director is not doing well, because he will admit his mistake. I admitted my mistake when I said I apologized to the Croatian public for voting for this director.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98529	Thank you. Hope Murganic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98530	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I will agree with you as well, and I will repeat that I feel that we should still count on budgetary resources if we really want this law to be brought together and used by those who are really meant to. Why am I stressing that? Even if the number of translators or not is sufficient, it is evident that even now we do not have them and it is evident that we may never have enough. But the translator should be a highly educated person, a person who knows very well the Croatian and Croatian sign language, a person who will know culture, breath, the atmosphere of what is involved, or what he wants to translate, know and transfer to a new culture, into a new world of these future users. It must indeed be motivated and motivated for this job and must be of high ethical and other quality. So it's a highly educated, quality person. Who's going to pay for her education, who's going to pay for such a person's services afterwards? Whether it will fall again on the burden of people with disabilities that we already know are very poor. There should certainly be a system, i.e. a budget jump in and it is not good that these very important, significant things just break on the back of associations for which they are neither human or always financially through various programs and competitions teamed up. We know for ourselves that we have both assistants and now I don't list all the other problems that some times associations can have through competitions, achieve both resources and staff, and sometimes not. Therefore, both the ministry and the budget should count on the implementation of this law through financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98531	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98532	Dear colleague Murganic, we agree, but let's try to complement ourselves somehow. I'm sure we're a poor society and we don't have the money for everything we'd like to finance. However, I always ask myself a question, now you mention that often these costs fall on the back of associations that are poor and who have no money but then I wonder 200 associations, agencies, councils in which, before we discussed the railroad, there is one agency that has received 7 items, for 4 has been declared incompetent, and 3 has failed to resolve in a year. We finance them, they iron cards. Therefore, the state has money but does not behave irrationally. Is that the theme of this? Yeah, and that's the theme. How to help people, we need to, say, be sensitive to people with disabilities, to deaf people. First we need to perform our function, and that function is to put all citizens in an equal position. And when we talk about it, they're all people, too. And so long as we don't do it for so long, and we Parliamentarians aren't doing our job right. And it always goes to the soul of the Parliament's majority who ultimately decides whether it's left or right or left or left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98533	Thank you. Minister Maya Sporish's deputy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98534	Thank you very much. Since the whole time here is somehow the thesis that funding goes to the burden and at the expense of associations, I would just like to point out that this is not accurate information or has ever gone to the burden of associations or to the burden of the financial association of education. Education is funded, will be financed, and has not been funded before, and has previously been financed equally from lottery funds in the same way. Therefore, it is not something that depends on some means that the association supplies from another side. It is funded through competitions as it was financed before and as it will be financed for some time by saying safety from 3 years of programming competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98535	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Ana Komarić Devčić, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98536	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the SDP club will support the Croatian Sign Language Act because of all 13 thousand people with hearing impairment and we believe that this is a big step for them. And I can agree with some colleagues who spoke before me in the context that maybe we're all hypocritical together, maybe we are, and I've talked about this phone several times, and every time I point out that when we talk about the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities that somehow we remember our fellow people with disabilities, it's usually when either this law directly concerns them or when it's the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities, and then somewhere in between we forget or simply don't remember them. What I want to highlight on behalf of the club is about this law, so the initiative to launch and recognise Croatian sign language dates back to 2007. So it took us a few years for the Croatian sign language to get its law. The proposal of the Law on Croatian Sign Language actually goes towards solving the communication difficulties of deaf and deaf people. What I want to point out, and it's about specifically this law, I'm going to point out only three segments that are extremely important, which is so under 1) education system. So, as a society, we decided to go to deinstitutionalisation as a model of inclusion and integration of persons with disabilities into our society, and it of course did not fully meet the purpose. Today, therefore, a deaf child who is not able to adopt a national language in speech and a letter in the classroom and is raised and educated in speech. What is important to stress is that we understand the problem that only 3% of deaf children actually come from deaf parents. 90% of deaf children actually come from foreign parents. So, we'll find ourselves in trouble not only a child but also a parent and a family. It is important, then, that if a deaf child is not provided in his system, or legally, for the adoption of communication appropriate to his harm, that child simply cannot progress in his education. A second segment that is extremely important, which is therefore the information of deaf and deaf people. So we know that today we have progress in their way of information and we know that audio media can do nothing about it, but that's why visual media can do much to inform deaf and deaf people. Regardless of what we have in some movies today, deaf people don't really have a lot of information about what you've already said in your discussions. Today deaf people can't actually track documentary movies, children can't track synchronised cartoons, they can't track important information shows like diaries, open, Sunday at 2. So we can still do a lot of work to inform deaf and deaf people, and in fact. The point of this law. to allow access to information by deaf and deaf people, full and real information that we have all of us who call ourselves a strange person. And the third and no less important segment that solves this law is actually communication itself, communication in society. Thus, under that right, it is possible for a person to choose the way he will communicate. It is important to point out that if people cannot communicate with them, huge problems can arise. It is important to stress that deaf persons also want to be understood by society as their equal, useful and productive member to the same and full extent as all other members and not as a world to themselves. It is important to point out that every human being has the right to express its idea, thought, and feeling using the language that best meets their communication needs. So it should be pointed out that this language is actually their native language. To them is not a national language of motherhood, for them this language is native to anger, and they only understand that language as such. The tendency of the deaf is not only to get the law that would go in favour of their protection but only to delete the basis of the communication discrimination. And because of everything I've listed, the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98537	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98538	Dear colleagues and colleagues, try to put on the shoes of deaf and deaf people, try not to hear and try not to see, try to close your eyes and close your ears. The fact is, a lot of us hear today, but trust me, they're deaf. But the thing is that today's desire, I believe, is the sincere desire of all of us, is the integration of deaf and deaf persons not only in society but in all the pores offered in this Croatian society. I will once again take advantage of the occasion and regrettably regret that the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Persons of Croatia and the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Persons of the City of Zagreb, i.e. their representatives, then the Association of the Dodir, the Association of Expert Communications Intermediates, is now a new name of sign language interpreters, including a representative in the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb Mrs. Katarina Tonković, who is also a deaf person and participates in the political work of the City of Zagreb and has a secure translator. I'm sorry, I'm truly sorry that our professional services did not really warn those persons that today because of the first point that was on the agenda that would last until the break and that they would come later. People were sitting here, unfortunately they are gone, but unfortunately neither is the Assembly nor is there, forgive me, it is not a big criticism, but if I were a deputy minister, I would remind the Croatian Parliament to provide an interpreter or translator and that simply the people whose law is good and who will support the HDZ Club understand what it is about. Here they were, I took the opportunity, I had to say it really because I just think it's unusually important. Deafness or deafness is not and must not be life in isolation, in the dark and silence of a closed room, life in loneliness and rejection, forgotten and bored, life without life. Deafness and deafness do not mean unproductive life, inability to perform daily activities, useless waiting for time to pass. A deaf person or a deaf person is not the person you have to be afraid to approach because you don't know if you'll understand her, or how you'll understand her, it's not the person who's best to stay home because there's nothing to hear and see out there anyway, it's not the person who doesn't need to talk because you think she prefers silence. If deaf and deaf persons live in the dark and quiet, it's only because we left them there. They feel, laugh and pay, love and live. Deaf and deaf people can take care of themselves if we let them and teach them. They can work if we give them support, they can practice art, they can hang out with friends if we give them translators, they need someone to be their eyes and ears to take them or translate a message. They need our support for a life that will be fulfilled. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the Law on the Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons. After 10 years of intensive work, the initiation of all these associations and other associations and the Educational Rehabilitation Centre, the use of Croatian sign language was initiated and it was in some way legal and finally this bill was before us in the Croatian Parliament. For this proposal, many who have worked on them say that it is one of the most modern if we compare it with all other laws on sign languages in Europe. The news is that this law is not exclusively directed at sign language as a way of communicating deaf persons with each other, but also with an environment that knows sign language already equally recognises other systems of communication in which they belong, it is simultaneously sign language communication, then manual alphabets, there is a one-hand alphabet and a two-way alphabet, and hand alphabets in tactile form, subtitles and dactylography, writing on the palm, technical assistance. What I must say when I said that many of the associations have agreed that it is one of the most modern or modern laws in Europe but unfortunately we must note that 80 to 90% of the TV and all others in Europe are adapted to deaf and deaf people while only 0.2% is adjusted in Croatia for now. In fact, we cannot ignore that technology is a great ally to help and communicate us hearing, but also deaf persons, so this segment should not be really ignored. The law regulates the rights of deaf, deaf and deaf persons, and not only categories of deaf as usual in other laws relating to sign language in Europe and there is a difference and therefore this law is among the more modern laws. In view of the inequality of termology, the terms of sign language interpreters have been used so far. Through Croatian legislation it is a person who translates and is still called an interpreter, so there is an interpreter for English or German and a sign language translator. As there is a difference between translators and interpreters in the content of their work through the law, both terms are set in terms of a professional communications intermediary. Under this term, we mean a person who is at least up to... first graders and after a specialist education in Croatian sign language for one year can get 60 ETCS points, it is actually wanted to become an interest as soon as there was no practice. We at the club, too, but I believe you and I in the Croatian Assembly together with associations will advocate the launch of a procedure to introduce a professional communications mediator into the nomenclature of occupation. In the area of Croatia according to registered data, the Croatian sign language uses about 12,000 people through associations. No one has ever defended these people from using language until now, but that right was not regulated by law, so deaf people occasionally faced problems. For example. in HZZO, the psychologist opposed the presence of translators or interpreters, then in some health institutions where we had to intervene as an association. Certainly these situations are numerous, which is also an indication that many more people in different institutions, offices, institutions where deaf persons meet their life needs where they should be met in reality by sign language as something that deaf persons do not need even though deaf people insist on professional communication intermediaries services. The adoption of this law will create conditions for the education of professional communications intermediaries to enter educational institutions in accordance with some future draft rules on assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries. In addition to education they will enter other systems as the right of deaf persons, then in similar situations where deaf persons are faced, they will be able to rely on the law prescribed right to use Croatian sign language and professional communication mediator services. The current model of funding for Croatian sign language interpreters or translators has started as a pilot project carried out by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth through which 52 professional communications mediators have already been said, and so far more interpreters and translators of Croatian Sign Language until we adopt this law. For a long time, there has been a need to increase these services among deaf people, and we will also support in our club that through some structural funds try to expand the circle and number of people in professional communication to which 52 sign - language translators will satisfy somewhere there are about 13,000 people with hearing damage and a thousand 400 deaf people. Sign language should be introduced into a regular educational system in order to allow better integration of hearing and speech impaired persons. And that's why it's very important to expand this funding. And it is important to point out that not everyone who knows little sign language can become a translator in class. It must indeed be a highly educated, professional and educated person with full knowledge of both languages and Croatian and Croatian sign language and knowledge and simultaneous translation, knowledge of the use of various means of communication. Then the judgment will be translated into a way that the deaf and deaf user can fully understand the message. There is also an important application of the code of ethics of profession as a sign - language translator. The Dodir Association was the first to launch a battle to introduce implementation into the education system by providing a translator in the teaching class for two deaf students and one deaf-headed student. In fact, the association started by providing translators at the Educational Rehabilitation College. This year they started a new battle with the insurance of a deaf child translator in a regular kindergarten and hope that it will not be as difficult and long-term as in some other cases. For a child to be actively integrated, support is needed and a deaf and deaf child needs support in communication. Although it can be integrated physically but the language and speech development of such children usually lags behind because they are unable to access information and communication like other children. It's exactly what many ignore and think it's enough to have only an assistant but an assistant is one thing and an interpreter is something else entirely. There is a fourth-year education and training behind translators on the acquisition of knowledge, skills and competence of sign language. Dear colleagues, we have already talked about problems involving deaf persons, deaf people, and all those with hearing problems. Well, I can even count people of older age. We need to think carefully about what these funds are, how institutions should be forced to comply with the legislation. We are signatories of many conventions, many laws, and we have spoken of this Law since HRT. It's really sad to see a child who can't look, a colleague said a cartoon because he's synchronised. And this cartoon that's synchronised can only be a little kid who understands and why can't a child who's deaf look at that movie and understand what it's about? Why shouldn't young people be involved in all educational shows, political shows, cultural shows, why can't we watch movies? And it's not true that associations don't finance individual projects themselves. They finance individual projects themselves. I think it's called "excuse me." She translated 16 films herself. Look, they translated it themselves so that theirs, so that those deaf could watch those movies. Why and why? Where all the money is spent and there's no way to think about the people around us. And it's not there. Here's just another sentence. [[Intruder Batinić: It's time.]] Excuse me. [[Invader Batinić: Finish.]] And it's not just about 13 or 14 thousand people who need this kind of help, it's about their families, it's about the quality of life, and what we all swear to be in the first place, so let's prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98539	Thank you. There'll be an opportunity through the replicas. We've reported five replicas. Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98540	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sumrak, I will once again join this appeal of yours because the whole debate is not only yours but I believe and from others will be representatives and clubs aimed at making a real effort to make this good law because we are passing a good, modern human law will be and fully brought to life in practice. If we know that people with hearing damage are deaf people, deaf people, the deafest and the most insulated in society, then we can know just how much they need this law. But what's more necessary is that he's having a good time. It takes effort and money. We see that sometimes we bring some things and we are very warmed up to something that is good and just and just and then in little things like organising today's translation knows some times and good law falls into the water. My colleague mentioned both inclusion and integration and deinstitutionalisation earlier but that is all I repeat both human and modern but it is not always particularly cheap to express myself economically completely cost-effective if we look strictly through money. But through those values that will be obtained for these people, and therefore for all of us, it has an invaluable value.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98541	Thank you. Come in, comrade twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you've said well. Yes, we will, of course, support this law. I spoke in the debate why we consider it and why associations consider it to be one of the more modern laws. But we're joining another appeal. No matter what we're signatories, I've said many conventions here like the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have the Action Plan of the Council of Europe, the Directive of the European Union, the European Disability Strategy, the National Equality Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2007 to 2015, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on HRT. I personally hope that when these Laws on Electronic Media and the Law on HRT come, that there will be really talk about the problem of the translator, the Croatian Sign Language and the problems of how little effort may be made, some resources will be reduced somewhere and those funds will be invested so that those 14 thousand people who need it can really get involved in society and be equal participants because intellectually and in any other way they can and they are aware of all their opportunities, and they will be even more aware when we give them support in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98543	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98544	My colleague, this is a very good law. You-you didn't want to, and you admit it in an indirect way. You note that today the Croatian Parliament, including the initiative of respected deputy ministers, was able to initiate the translation. This is the first reading, and I believe it's going to be, that's a good suggestion, that it's going to happen until the second reading. Now you're even saying that you need to talk about the problems of the translator. We talked about these problems of translators when you were in power, there was no sign of the law or announcement that such a law could enter the Croatian Parliament and we here to discuss. But what happened? What happened was that the lady who's been doing her job impeccably as a simultaneous translator of the deaf mass within the framework of the HTV religious program was fired, so you divorced her from her job because the woman was divorced. We women, at that time of the SDP, jumped to such injustice, all women associations, all female associations and lawyers for gender equality, and that didn't happen. I'm sorry you didn't react then, I don't know if you were, but your colleagues just didn't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98545	Thank you. Answer me, comrade twilight, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Anticevic, you see, I never said this was a good law, I said it belonged to more modern laws in the European Union. I don't know why you're politicizing, I don't understand. Today we are here to talk about this law and today we are here to make this law a basis for improving the conditions of all, not just translators, but to be a basis for improving the living conditions of deaf, deaf and deaf people. I don't know, you mention Mrs. Translator, so look at the mention of your forum of women. So where is the Law of Election in the Croatian Parliament, where is the Law of Choice in the Croatian Parliament? I don't think you're going to realize your zipzap like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98547	Thank you. Frano Matušić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, you've put on an accent that I think is necessary, which is a question of involving a person with disabilities, so deaf, deaf. So this is a fundamental question in which we can integrate them even more strongly and in which way this law can actually help to make it happen. I'm just going to say that actually the potentials of people who have obviously disability in the sense that they're deaf, deaf, or deaf, actually their human potentials are enormous and sometimes they're actually the object of our admiration. I will say that it would be impossible to imagine the history of music of the human race without one Beethoven who is his most brilliant works and so is the 9th symphony whose Ode of Joy is today and the anthem of Europe, he composed completely deaf. So I agree with you, it comes from this fact, we can really say that those who hear today are actually sometimes deaf to what is said or heard or as may be some who are actually blind, and these people with disabilities are quite stimulating, and they certainly have potential. Or should I mention some examples that may be closer to others if Beethoven is far away from them, so let's say Andrea Boccella, who is truly the world's top tenor, who ennobles today's society or Ray Charles, etc. So these are all great examples, it's just a question of how much we're going to let these people get involved in society, how much we're going to give him, and that's our job. Will HRT have the right way of treating these people, towards these people, and we must ensure that through legislation. So there's our responsibility, and we do everything we can to make it easier for these people to get involved in society, to be creative because they are even more creative than many of us, and let's just give them a chance to get what's inside of them to be presented in the best possible way. We have to provide them with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98549	Time. Thank you. Answer me, comrade twilight, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98550	Thank you very much, dear colleague Matušić, and thank you very much for mentioning people in art and musicians and singers. There are famous painters, but there are also artists in Croatia who are both in art, they are either deaf or deaf, and it is usually fine art, but believe there are musicians, and here is a professor of musicology and he was, he has now received the award as a blind person who transports daily somewhere or a week 500 km in three schools works. Why am I saying this? This refers to the spirit that is in those persons. If we give them the opportunity like any of us here, if we give them the opportunity, if we give them the incentive in reality, if we don't save on it because if we're going to save on people who have to express ourselves, on people we have to show what we've said, then we've misdirected that savings. I'm sure there's no one in this HDZ club who'd once come to a chance to save on it. If I were to save, I'd be the first to raise my voice against that savings because I really think that the time has come for us to be in 2015 and we have a basis, again I'm saying, this law, we have a basis that is good, and it's not bad to talk about things that need to be done today. And thank you for your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98551	Ana Comparić Devcic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, in my debate and in my debate, and also in the replicas, it has been crystallized that access to information is one of the bigger problems of deaf and deaf people and I fully agree with you. Because a person who is not, there is no possibility of access to information simply makes some decisions that can be vital to life. But I can also comment that we here in Parliament have a lot of power, I think, if that's what you can call it. And here we're also discussing HRT, it's public television. But you know always the debates about HRT end up on who was as much on TV, whether he had more SDP or had more HDZ, and somewhere we always forget people with disabilities together. In this case, they're deaf people. And I'm very sorry about that, too, because for the truth, I've been repeating every time the few of us who have been discussing this ever since the beginning of this calls for people with disabilities to discuss and to think about people with disabilities only when, therefore, some laws come before us. And when some other topics are somewhere we forget them, and the fact is that people with disabilities are an integral part of our lives and they belong to all segments of this society. Not only do they belong to the social policy system, which has somehow always been pushed into the social policy system so far. And what I want to finally point out one more time, so this law, an initiative to pass this law, lasts from 2007 and the fact is that it took us a long time to pass such an important law for people with disabilities, in this case, so deaf and deaf persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98553	The answer to the replica, comrade twilight, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's a colleague of Comparic, so I agree, I keep saying that I agree with everyone who said this falls under the order of modern, modern laws in the EU. That's what I said in my debate and here, and that's what I said was a basis for improvement. Why not? And you're absolutely right, accessing information to both us and the disabled person including here and the deaf person or the deaf person is very important, of course. I said this isn't about 14,000 people. It's about families. We can turn it into numbers, I don't want to. Now I'm interested in maybe these 14,000 people and children and adults who need to be involved. And that we should talk about HRT, and I agree that any law we have received ahead of us should question whether this law is in accordance with the Law on Persons with Disabilities, with some other laws that apply. Is that what we're doing? No, you don't. And why aren't we working? That's why, fellow Members, because here today when the key law is, the great law here today is simply forgotten by a Parliament institution, she forgot to warn the people who were there, who announced that this law would be in the afternoon, not in the morning. And today it was sitting here, and I told you who it was. People were here and of course they were gone. This way I welcome Mrs. Mirjana who is here, here she is back. But all this stuff we're saying isn't about her sitting there. But we all need to understand together that these are important people in our lives, and as you said not only segmented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98555	Thank you. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague twilight. Through the debate, it is said that the law has really set high criteria, but these criteria need to be reached, and reality is quite different, so I'm going to say something from my family environment. So if a person who does not hear, if you get that privilege at a certain age of life and get an artificial snail then you will be excluded in fact in a way that you will not be allowed to regularly enroll in school, to use your intellectual abilities in the right way, but will tell you that you can only enter something from the profession and that it is the only thing this society can offer you. It's the beginning of a problem. What can also be heard here is a criticism at the expense of the public service I join. It is not true that we did not talk about these topics from the Croatian Democratic Community club, because there is a contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia which Croatia should primarily respect as a public service. And I really think that there is insufficient translators, that is, what we call them professional communications intermediaries at public service, which is inadmissible. If someone has already mentioned cancellations for these or those reasons, then I'll just remind them that 40 editors were fired on Croatian radio, so I guess that money could have been employed by an expert communications agent. And it is true that public service, therefore, discriminates against all people who do not hear or who do not see, who cannot follow at least the information programme and are thus excluded from everyday social events. When we're going to talk, and I hope that we'll all have to take care of this together about the amendment of the Law on Croatian Television and the Law on Electronic Media to make it right. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98557	No answer? Is there? Did you get that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you've said well. Unfortunately, all of us, we're all flesh and blood people, and until something like that changes drastically in our lives, until we feel something on our own or feel it until our loved ones feel it. There was a recent change in the rulebook on hearing aids when it was said everyone would pay for it. I'll tell you the truth, I was thinking well what 65 kn so it's nothing. But unfortunately, I'm in a position to know what that means. Batterys are exchanged every 7 to 15 days, depending on how much they are used and what they are used for. And you see and it's good to point out everything. And it's a good thing you talked about electronic media and HRT. Yes, we will all believe that we will participate in this debate but most importantly, the government that will come here to be sensitized, that within that government there are people who are sensitized to people with disabilities. That people who can say and get the courage, no, this Croatian Parliament is not, the assembly is not arranged so that one person with disabilities can come simply, and we have been looking for it for several years. So that we can ask for the Croatian Parliament to be translated in Croatian sign language. Well, my God, that's what interests people. Well, we're not just gonna be interested in people with disabilities as an electoral body, are we?- I'm sorry. I don't think of anyone, absolutely, so neither of them as an important electoral body. But yes, why not let them hear our programs, let them hear our debates, and let them decide then. And We leave them in silence or leave them in darkness and silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98559	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, Assistant. I haven't given you a replica yet, but sometimes it's better not to let them hear what's being said here. But neither do we who hear, let alone those who do not hear, considering what is spoken from this pay phone. But it is not a topic, and I do not want to argue with anyone here, but the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we witnessed a transfer from The Hague. And the simultaneous translation that was first from French, and then from English was such that you barely understood so that it was confusing and what they say is the professional communications intermediary who translated it for deaf, deaf. You have seen how often it was confused with the translation into the Croatian language that was, the name of the former state was not known whether it was a federal or socialist or socialist and federalist, etc., there were many things in that translation. I didn't even know when Serbia was created whether 27.04 or sooner or later, why is it being tried? So, in the ordinary Croatian language you have, listen only to speakers or those who read the news, at night, after midnight, and you will see what the pronunciation of the vote is, and some others dj and d, etc., disaster! So, we also have problems in common communication, and here something is being solved that I welcome and that the HDSSB club will also support for about 13,000 people with hearing damage whose extent of damage is in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities. Very often we have a dispute about it so it's not some kind of special objection but they say this when you see a person with a white stick in the city or anywhere else, you watch out, you don't come to some kind of crash or I don't know you give him a place, do you? When a deaf person crosses the road, and his car driver honks, he doesn't hear it, and this guy doesn't count on him not to hear it. So everyone has, both deaf and blind, their own problem. And when we talked here three years ago and were present here from the Association of the Blind then we also talked about the disability fee for 100% of the blind. And there's talk here about the blind, so I'm going to talk a little bit about that part. I have a neighbor in Slavonski Brod who is the champion of Europe and champion of the world of bowling for the blind, completely 100% blind because of the diabetes that has led to total blindness. Do you know, or do we know what the fee is here? I know that you know from the Ministry, a fee for 100% of the blind for disability? Or what kind is she in Slovenia, BiH? In all these neighbouring countries, it is bigger than in Croatia, which accounts for around 800 kuna. He's got a man and grandchildren but he's never seen them or can ever see them in his life. But good. So let's go to what's written here, it's about 12 748 people with hearing damage, and of that number 2648 are those who have hearing damage in deafness ratios and harder deafness. So hearing loss greater than 60 decibels. All of these include 1371 persons who have a combination of visual and hearing impairments in proportion also provided for in the Law on the Registration of Persons with Disabilities. Well someone noticed here that given the age of life and the events and then the disease of Menier, etc., now those who are doctors know what Menier’s disease is, so the noise in the ear, dizziness and deafness, deafness and then deafness, come into the situation to also count them and sometimes completely lose their hearing after 60, 70 or 80 years. Now about this, as someone here said, professionally communication media on the Croatian or public far-sighted, which would be significant for commercial television, why here someone promotes some kind of show called Sunday at 2:00, I mean, it's unnecessary. It's such a shame he can't look at Sunday at 2:00, you might think. There is no need to mention any of the shows, public television and commercial television are needed, and no one is talking about them, so these 14 thousand people have the opportunity to look at their own language, which is listed here from what they say, and that through the way they write professional communication intermediaries or translators or interpreters or interpreters, there are various names that know what it is, whether it's about films, whether it's about information shows, cultural events, sports events, and that they can manage by looking at any far-sighted commercial or public. And the fact that the systems of communication of deaf and deaf people are based on Croatian, and I also talked about that those who have no harm or hearing or vision are very difficult, sometimes speak this Croatian language very badly. This is about the Croatian language in terms of simultaneous-signal communication, hand-to-hand or one-hand and two-hand alphabets, dactylographies, facial and lip readings, hand-to-hand writing and technical aids. This is the case in Article 6 of this Act. When we learn that deaf and deaf children, that their parents are healthy in 90% of cases, so healthy married couples then we see that when we look at our children or someone and their grandchildren that there is in that case inability or difficult communication between parents and children, or vice versa children and parents, or these other generations of grandparents and children. What does that lead to? What does that lead to? It leads as someone said here, again I quote to one not only lagging behind in the intellectual potential of these children, but unless there is no communication that is adequate or in any of these ways that I have stated exists between parents and children, so a healthy parent must learn or have the skills to communicate in this way, there are also certain likely and emotional problems in the family or emotional problems between children and parents. Not only intellectual lagging, so it's not just the development of intellectual but also the emotional development of children. Communication depends on communication and that part of the development of the child. So far, so much has been said in the debate, and especially fellow Sumrak, who really talked about this subject in one emotional charge and crossed or broke the deadline for talking that we have 15 minutes, but has actually cited a large part of what the HDSSB club supports. I believe that there is no one in this hall this afternoon in the assembly that will not be and will not accept, and no club will accept this legal proposal, which is why I don't think I should be longer than to give a word to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98561	Thank you, too. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you spoke of all the problems that families face when faced with a child’s deafness or deafness in children, especially when parents are hearing or if parents see well. Yeah, that's what I was saying in my debate mentioning assistants in class. And that's the problem that came up today at the beginning of the school year when unfortunately it couldn't find the tools for the assistants in the follow-up. As far as deaf children and deaf children are concerned, and I mentioned it, and I will be sure that this is not about assistants, that this is about, I will now say about Croatian Sign Language, that is, translators, that is, communication intermediaries that should be secured from kindergarten, meaning from kindergarten when a small child goes to kindergarten if there is a need for funds to be found in the budget. I was deeply resented when my colleague said that President Josipovic, now the former should have given up some of the funds from his budget and separated them for assistants. But I think we're going to have all the opportunities in the next budget to really fight not only for assistants but also for professional communications intermediaries, both in kindergartens and elementary schools and colleges.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98563	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98564	Thank you very much. My colleague Sumrak, there's a lot that could be saved to this country in order to meet what you say starting with an office of the former president who has a consumption that we know is more than 2 million kuna a year, and then from the agency that serves only to take care of party staff, which is called APIS, and then three thousand employees in the Ministry of Agriculture along with agencies belonging to the ministry of procurement 1700 Audi and a number of other things to which money is spent, from skiing with a driver in Austria, from a Yakuza office in various ministries and agencies, etc. We could count that as much as you want. Really, there's only money to be deployed, but if there's will and knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98565	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an associate. The proposal for a law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems for the communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia is another proposal for a law that speaks for everything else about how good it is for the Republic of Croatia to enter the EU. It's good to repeat some of the premises they write about the state of play in the bill. The Council of Europe Action Plan for the promotion of rights and full participation in the society of persons with disabilities aims to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities. In the action guideline of information and communication, it is stressed that access to information and communication is a key aspect of the participation of persons with disabilities in society and that they need access to information through an appropriate communication system with the aim of actively enjoying the right to participate and make decisions in their lives. The European Disability Strategy stresses that accessibility is a prerequisite for participation in society. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU stresses that the EU recognises and respects the rights of persons with disabilities to measures aimed at ensuring their independence, social and professional inclusion and participation in community life. The need to ensure access to information and communication to all persons with disabilities is recognised in the National Strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities in the 2007-2015 Strategy. The World Alliance of Deaf also strongly encourages countries to confirm their national sign languages and to regulate the language rights of deaf people to whom the development of legislation will guarantee assistance or services and access to education, implementation, information, employment of deaf, deaf and deaf citizens who promote sign language and culture of the deaf. Furthermore, the World Deaf Alliance considers that the concept of deaf persons must refer to a cultural group of people using sign language as their primary language, and therefore encourages legislators to define sign language as the language of choice for those who have been designated as sign language users including deaf, deaf and deaf citizens. I was fortunate to have been given the opportunity to do something good in some moments of my life. I wasn't too well-deserved for that, but the feeling was always unforgettable. He's particularly etched in my memory for an event. A friend of mine in Sibenik asked me if I could help his cousin or his son find a job, noting that the boy had problems. When asked what kind of deal he's having, he told me come on, please take them, talk to them, they'll tell you what's going on. They came in the second day, a beautiful lady, a nice gentleman in his 40s, and they say our son graduated but he won't be able to find a job, namely he has a problem that's terribly limiting him. Which problem I'm asking is convinced it's some kind of delinquent or drug addict or something. The missus shakes, looks at me with deep sad eyes, a little scared but determined to tell the truth. He's deaf. O God, the sigh is clearly relieved of all fears, and they both jump to explain how he communicates perfectly, how he reads with his lips and how he uses sign language, how it is not a bigger problem, but rather a bigger problem in misunderstanding of the environment, etc., etc. When we all calmed down and I convinced them personally that I really didn't think it was any bigger problem, I made it clear that I would help them. They gave me a full list of companies that receive people with disabilities and deaf people as well. And they said that in a company like that, where you'd like to specifically work their son for a good acquaintance of mine. And I said I'll ask. Another colleague I worked with daily was in a much better relationship with that same director, and I asked him to ask that director to see if he could be hired. And every 15 days that first friend in Sibenik called me to see if I did something, so I asked my colleague and so on for a few months. But since everything didn't go well in the end, I decided to ask the director myself. And here I am clearly grateful to that colleague who probably didn't have enough time to stand up for himself. He made me a better man without even knowing it. And yes, in a conversation with that company's directorate, it happened that this company had opened a tender that had also appeared to this deaf 18-year-old and eventually got a job that he wanted so badly. The thank-you parents were announcing themselves to me, thanking them like me, having to thank me for having to come to me, if I had any wish, that I couldn't boast enough, and you all know how it goes. I said, you don't have to repay me or thank me, and I don't have any desire unless it's possible I'd like to meet your son, clearly if that's not embarrassing to him. And they came. The room was entered by tall, beautiful young people, eyes full of joy and life's joy, filled with optimism and desire for life. He wanted to know what was going on around him. We were talking, and I was probably asking him boring not too smart questions, and he looked at me, he answered politely, and he understood me much better than I understood him. I've never seen him again in my life, I hope today is full of happiness and pleasure, and he hasn't lost his contagious life optimism for a moment. It was about six, seven years ago. But even today, I can't help but feel the impression and belief that at the moment of my conversation with this young deaf man, the disabled was me and not him. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the Register of Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Croatia, 12 thousand 748 people with hearing impairment were registered on 30 January 2014. Of these 2648, hearing damages in deafness and deafness have been reported. Furthermore, on 11 July 2013, 1398... with a certain level of deafness with the next distribution of 16 people Usher’s syndrome, 11 completely blind and completely deaf persons and 1371 people have a combination of visual and hearing impairment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal makes the right of deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties to use, informing and education in the Croatian sign language and other systems of communication that meet their ideal needs and for the purpose of equating access to social, economic and cultural environments and enabling equal achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The law defines Croatian sign language, customized Croatian sign language and leaves systems of communication between deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties. Those persons will have the right to choose and use the means of communication that meet their needs. A professional communications intermediary will also be defined as a person with the right skills, knowledge and ability to use the Croatian sign language and to use other systems of communication between deaf and deaf persons. As we always say with 100% conviction in HNS, we point out that care for people with disabilities is a priority attitude of the state against its citizens, so we are convinced that this is a reflection of the entire society against a minority, against our completely equal citizens, with somewhat different needs than the needs of the majority. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club will accept this excellent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98567	Thank you. We've got one replica of Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Blažekovic, first of all, I am very glad that you have come here and publicly said that you have stood up for this young man to get his job and that you have used your influence in this way. And you had to use it to a respected colleague because unfortunately we also have a good law, which is the Law on the employment of persons with disabilities and under that law to every 25 employees should be one or two persons with disabilities. But we have about 2%, we should come to 5% of the employees. But here you see, I personally asked all the ministries and state-owned companies in the Republic of Croatia how many persons with disabilities they have, and to this day I have not received an answer. Well, that's another law that just doesn't apply. Not having a good time. Why? Because there's no sensitivity and there's no respect for the law. And what I'd like to do once more is repeat that, you said we have good laws. Yeah, yeah, we got this, and this is the base, and it's another good law. And I would like to be as close to the other countries of the European Union, which have 80 to 90%, to adapt all programmes to deaf and deaf or deaf persons while here in Croatia only 0.2% of the adjustment. Well, that's where we see our good laws, the implementation of all these laws, the sensitization of the general state, and then I guess all of us here who are in reality a legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98569	Answer, colleague Blazekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Comrade twilight, I agree with most of what you said, almost everything. Although I must say that you gave me one credit I don't have, it wasn't me, it was me who hired, but it was during that period that the competition opened. The only thing I could do to communicate a little bit better, to communicate, was six, seven years ago, the whole story, and this law that you're talking about, we passed a few months ago. That was before I thought for a month and a half, it wasn't anymore, and it's a great law. And the fact is that we in Croatia have good laws that we often do not adhere to. And it's one of the functions of all of us and of our parliamentary representatives and of the government and of all those who deal with public affairs and associations, to warn that all laws but all laws must be respected. It can't happen that that syntagma that's been said long ago, long ago that we don't have to exactly stick to the law as a drunken float, we have to get to the state of law like a drunken float and do it at all levels. And everywhere. This situation around our citizens with people with disabilities, deaf people, deaf people, deaf people, I think that right now we've talked about that they may not have as much trouble communicating with us as we have a problem communicating with them. And that society has a bigger problem of communication with such persons than they have with us, but completely, frankly, I have to admit, it doesn't matter who has a bigger problem in communication, it's important that their problems are solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98571	Thank you. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected Mrs. Jurisha, who represent the associations that were this morning and who were of course particularly interested in the adoption of this law, respected deputy ministers, or representatives of the ministry. So the law that lies before us is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which the Republic of Croatia has signed among the first and signed and ratified what we can really be proud of but from Convention to Law, all laws that will follow what the Convention foresees of course is a long way. Croatia has done a lot of work in the past 15, 20 years, primarily to sensitise the public, to sensitize each other, to sensitize politics,... also local administration, self-government, so cities, municipalities, counties, in order to make Croatia more accessible, land for all persons with disabilities, so not only those who have difficulties in overcoming physical obstacles but all of them, and that may be the most difficult problem, which must overcome obstacles and prejudices. And the obstacles to prejudice are, in fact, the strongest and strongest. And we heard earlier in this debate, which is of course well-intentioned in most cases, there's no doubt, but here's when one of our colleagues says, so it's important that politicians understand this problem well, which is simple, when speaking about shows, for example. on Croatian television, it is better that some shows, now lists shows that deaf or deaf people should not be heard or seen. It is an unnecessarily patronizing relationship where we who see and hear can determine who will watch or listen. On the contrary. So all emissions, in particular information, should be available to all persons with disabilities, so either they are titles or they are translated, translated into sign language. And here's Mrs. Jurish, who's here with us at the gallery, knows how much we've done in recent years, a lot of effort to, for example, do. only for some of the Croatian national-owned emissions, which is a public service, allowed at least some informational emissions to be translated into a language that is of course accessible and which opens that door to deaf or deaf persons, in fact, more deaf persons. So every effort of every government, every ministry that goes after it to take another small step forward should be welcomed. That is, sometimes a small step perhaps for those of us who look on the side but a big step always for people with disabilities. So in this case, we welcome this law that will go to another reading, and I think that the promoters will listen very well to all our remarks that are absolutely well-intentioned in most cases. And I've been trying for the last 20 years, trying to do this job in politics, trying to help bring down both obstacles and prejudices, and here's a little bit of praise, so I'm probably also declared an honorary member of the Dodir Association, the deaf society. Especially valuable and important cooperation I had with Mrs. Tarcai, who started this whole big project for deaf people. Mrs. Tarcai may be a role model, indeed an example to all of us, so the person who had to overcome the great obstacles in life has been educated, here by the way she learned English, but also likely that many of you had recently received a doctorate. So a person worthy of any admiration and all respect, as well as Mr. Praiser who has been at the head of the Association of persons with hearing difficulties for many years. Mrs. Jurisha, who has also overcome obstacles precisely in promoting sign language translation in this information space, which is also the most accessible, so these are electronic media. Therefore, this law should be seen as a sort of confirmation of their work and their efforts and their perseverance, thus rewarding that tenacity that has never ceased. However, I would have passed the law itself. When you look at him and all I'm saying is really, really well-meaning, when you look at him closely and from afar, when you step away from what the law actually says. In this form it is more like a manual that teaches what it is, in fact, sign language, and less seems appropriate to a law that will be implemented in practice, and what practice it is is daily life. So it's said that people with disabilities who have difficulties, who are deaf, deaf have rights, talk about how they can choose the system. It's listed and it's very clear who the users are, it explains the possibility of communication, it's explained amongst others what writing is in the palm of the hand. All this is good and valuable, however, it is finally said in the latest article that supervision of the implementation of this law will be carried out by the competent ministry. But what exercise, control over what? So, in my opinion, there are no obligations to institutions, obligations to those whom the law, which describe what sign language must implement, because this is how the ministry will not be able to control anything, it will only be able to monitor if it continues to be written in the law that we are going to vote on. So until the second reading, I suggest that at least for the beginning, determine where, in which cases, the law must be implemented by the institutions. When we recently passed laws, it seems to me that, yes, it was the Law of Criminal Procedure, then I proposed an amendment, so it was about translation to those who are in court, about translation for people with disabilities, so people with disabilities. I also suggested that deaf, or deaf, persons be placed in that group. And that's it, that's the work we have to have in this law. So, we can also make a commitment to Croatian broadcasting, we can do this because the Croatian Radio Television Act is being passed in the Croatian Parliament. It's a repeat institution owned by the state. Therefore, we can introduce some obligations. If we can't tell anyone, of course, commercial televisions, but also Croatian broadcasters better told Croatian TV that but also other institutions. So, we need to see if, in accordance with this law, we need to change some other laws, bring them into line with this law so that it really has the right purpose and the right meaning, because I am sure that no one cares that it is a beautiful paper that we will wave to each other, in front of the institutions, in the European Commission, in the European Parliament and say that we have such a law but that we will not actually be able to implement because the law does not oblige anyone to implement it. It's only bound by the competent department to oversee it. Here is also the end of a lot of nice words and a lot of big words spoken today and every time you talk about people with disabilities. However, I would like to warn in the end that politicians must be very careful not to make mistakes that are often inadmissible, but actually destroy everything that has been done well before. Listen often to each other’s politicians when they want to offend each other, then they say you are either deaf and blind, and not knowing clearly that they are deeply insulting those who have the difficulties of that kind. So we will certainly accept the law in the first reading, but we propose and ask that it be seriously done until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98573	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – party of work Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's nice to pass a law like this. This is not only in line with the various directives and resolutions that we have adopted, signed, which have entered our system, but it is in line with some civilizational achievements, with the level of civilization we are at, we want to be, as it turns out. It's a good thing this is the first reading. In fact, the law is clearly written professionally. Obviously, it was done by people who knew what was in that area and put it inside. On the other hand, the law is written somewhat essayist. Everything that happens, what needs to happen, how it should be done, what the elements of sign and similar languages are described. But neither is it said where it must be applied, where it must be applied. That's what we can decide here, at least as far as state bodies, judicial authorities, government bodies, public television, I don't know where else and where we should apply what we can say. I don't see why we shouldn't put in some kind of recommendation if we don't already have obligations, and I think we can also make a commitment to media, visual media and local and commercial visual media. It's about respecting human rights. They're also bound by who we all are here and the whole state and as a whole society. I think it should go in, so the place and the way the law has to apply, and then as any law must have carrots and beatings, otherwise it's not the law, otherwise the resolution, the declaration, the conclusion, the goodwill, our commitment, and that kind of law must have criminal provisions. What if he doesn't? What if someone won't or won't do it or can't do it or can't do it? There must be such provisions. And I really suggest that I propose it well on purpose, because I can't actually assess the expertise of this, I suppose, is top-notch. It would be a shame if he stayed on the essay level. Of course, if we put it all in there, then we need to think again about how to finance the whole thing. This is financing the needs of Croatian citizens. If it can be solved in some European or not, I don't know which projects, great, we'll save money. However, this must not be a restriction. If the associations fail to pass the project then there will be no integrity, their translator or assistant. Well, that's not how it works. So, if it's about Croatian citizens' rights, that's why Croatian citizens pay taxes, that's the main thing why taxes are paid. Not a variety of bathrooms and skiing and what I know about what was going on here, that's the reason for paying taxes, and then the state has to take over the ultimate commitment that it will also be financially covered and that it will be able to function. That clause that this law will not cause any new costs in the Croatian budget if we take it seriously cannot be that way. What doesn't cost anything and it's not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98575	Thank you. We have one replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98576	Thank you very much. You say to your colleague Vuljanic that the law should have, I agree with that, and criminal provisions because the law already says that the implementation of this law will be monitored and supervision then means that it will be missed. And if there's a gap, then it's got to be sanctioned in some way. So, I agree with that. But in order to introduce such provisions, we must first know who should be punished if it does not enforce the law, and by this law, this bill is not even indicated, let alone elaborated. And that is one of the great shortcomings that can easily be changed or completed until another reading. Otherwise, we will indeed have one beautiful declaration because it could indeed be translated into another kind of document called the Declaration of Rights of Deaf or Deaf Persons or their Sign Language and Point. But neither is the applicant's intensity but neither is the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98577	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98578	I couldn't agree more. Of course, first of all, the obligation should be incorporated into the law, when the obligation is installed with specific persons and institutions that have to comply with that obligation only afterwards, some criminal provision can be installed, some kind of supervision that will monitor compliance with that obligation. It's unnecessary to control the law. People got right and it's right, okay. And it is necessary to monitor the enforcement of the obligation and therefore I think that it is really necessary to change the law in such a way that it becomes similar to the law, so that it has everything that the law needs including grand and criminal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98579	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. First of all, I would like to remind you that I will vote in favour of this bill that you have done well in your first reading, congratulating you and so doing the Social Democratic Authority. From the first one, when we had that "Let's Hear" action to this bill that many felt the need in the meantime to bring but the fact remains that no one even tried to pass it. And that's why here's a card for you on that primate. And of course everything here, regardless of who was in a position to do or not to do something anymore or less, is not important now at all, it is important that the observations are all well-intentioned and that in the end we have an even better bill in the final reading, especially with regard to these certain remarks relating to some congenital norms, and they are only congenital with us, so citizens still understand them if a certain penalty is prevented if one norm is not respected. Otherwise, the Legislative Committee unanimously supported this bill without finding in it any nomotechnic error, which means that it was not only beautifully written but was clearly and unambiguous under all rules. Which means that there is still a need for sanctioning if certain standards are not respected. So, I just wanted to say firstly, no matter what we have brought forward before and from different strategies, and we have committed ourselves as the Republic of Croatia to many international acts, UN conventions, the European strategy is not only done to bring it into line, but first of all, we are doing it for our own citizens who have these problems and that we have heard. And many governments haven't heard. Or, as I would have used here, an oxymoron ruled over the need for that everyday life and, above all, access to education one would have said thunderous silence. However, that these persons, deaf or deaf, are also not that they did not find themselves in our legislation both in earlier years and in earlier times in these political areas, so by creating a state, we made many laws and prescribed them. Many laws have dealt with these people, but in what context? In a context where these persons were to give only something, either to give to the State or to give to their relatives. And what was that about? The law long ago regulated how these persons gave their testimony, how they gave their testimony as defendants how they put their signatures on the record when something was drawn up in connection with an official action, how they could give their expression of their last will, i.e. To dispose of their property willfully, and it was very interesting that all election laws also dealt with these persons with deaf, deaf, blind, how to draw their voice out of them. And when they said they needed a law like this, that's all we heard. And so here's why I thank you once again on their behalf and all those who have recognized here that it is no improvisation but exactly co-operation and that is what we need and it is still not enough, and it needs quite open heart and recognition. The greater communication and the greater communication in making every law with the general public, and especially with the interested public, and then there is no mistake with one good will that I never slow down, but often it doesn't turn out the way we wanted and we don't always end up being understood for it. And this is one example of the law how it should be done. So for the first time these people get something, so not the law, not how to take something away from them, but how to give them something, how to give them something. The system of communication, above all in the Croatian Sign Language, allows access to the social, economic and cultural environment, which is very important to them for those people living in the world of silence, enables education, access to information and communication. In short, let me not repeat everything that has been said here. I'd end up with one sentence that these people themselves say, they say it's not a handicap to be deaf, the handicap is to be uneducated. So this is one bill of law that provides equal opportunities and equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98581	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98582	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to draw up the proposal of the Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this law, we will become 24 EU member states that have recognised sign language. In doing so, the Republic of Croatia not only fulfils the commitments undertaken between national and national documents but also in a concrete way shows its sensitivity and concern for deaf and deaf persons and other persons with communication difficulties. According to the Croatian Alliance of Deaf and Deaf and the Croatian Alliance of Deaf Persons, the Touches that made a great deal of effort and desire in drawing up this legal proposal. This legislative proposal is unquestionably one of the better laws in the EU because it also recognises other systems of communication used by deaf and deaf persons, which is important because deaf and deaf persons are recognised the right to choose a communication that corresponds to each individual. By entering into force of this law, the Croatian Sign Language will be equal with speaking languages and the deaf and deaf will have the right to use, inform and education in the Croatian Sign Language. This is an immense contribution to ensuring the social equality of deaf and deaf persons and in line with the European Disability Strategy from 2010 to 2020, which points out that accessibility is a prerequisite for participation in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98583	Thank you. You're gonna turn yourself off, please. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Sonja König, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98584	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of our Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. 20 years ago, Croatia didn't even know about the concept of deaf people. Today, it is in the bill of law and the title of the law, which is not usually the case with the laws of such a species in other countries that have already passed such laws or laws. The sign language was almost not used in any media, let alone in the theatre a few years ago. Today we can follow the news in sign language, follow theatre performances in sign language, follow organized multisensory exhibitions and so on. As early as ten years ago, the Croatian Sign Language Course Group was staring empty or half-empty and today we learn from the alliance of deaf people that the sign language course last year recorded a record number of participants. The consciousness is therefore changing, and the process is also well and rightly spoken by her colleague Kosor. And our fellow citizens slowly recognize the need to support deaf and deaf people, but prejudice is still too great, prejudice is too great. And it is right for us politicians and politicians to bring down these prejudices, to open our chances and ensure the rights of deaf and deaf people. By passing this Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication between deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia, we contribute in my opinion. The status of sign languages is very different from the different countries of Europe and the world. In the Republic of Croatia, the sign language as we have heard here today in the debate is present, recognised but not legally recognised. This bill finally changes that. By recognising sign language for deaf and deaf persons, you get the quality of their integration in society and makes it easier for them to access more information. And the greater of course or equal access to information enables greater opportunities to participate in social life because information is as we know and communication, and communication is also integration. The recognition of the Croatian sign language contributes to the fact that deaf and deaf persons do not experience isolation but members of a specific cultural and language community. And when I mention language, I recommend to everyone who is able to enroll in one of the sign language courses organized by many of our associations and alliances. Courses are free or almost free of charge for students, most often free of charge actually cost enough to cover any costs of literature or materials for learning. And learning sign language is good for all both deaf and deaf persons, as well as for all others, because by learning sign language as well as every other language we enrich ourselves as a person. As far as the proposal for a law on Croatian Sign Language is concerned, he is not rich in words. In fact, the number of articles of the law is relatively small, but it represents a large step forward for the sense of involvement of part of our citizens and therefore I recommend myself to all those who welcome and accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98585	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate will be the deputy minister of social policy and youth to the respected Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98586	Thank you very much. So here are the honourable MPs and MPs, with most of what is said today, we are basically in full agreement, but what we must certainly stress is that just passing this law is the first step towards all this, the first and necessary step towards all that we have said today should be and should be done. I may have made a mistake that in my opening statement, I did not refer to all the efforts in saying so and in the previous term there was to pass this law. The first initiative started in 2008, a working group was established, there was no consensus and nothing was done, so it was repeated in 2010 naturally without any blame on anyone. I can only express my wish that we have succeeded in these efforts and we have now finally succeeded in reaching consensus and that this law sees the light of day. And as you yourself said, the result of our work is one good and modern law. With the introduction of sanctions or criminal or criminal provisions, I absolutely agree that it is worth considering. As for how it was heard in the discussion that someone who is being tortured by the bodies of institutions who have the right to use all forms of communication of deaf and deaf persons is pointing to Article 14. Paragraph 2. As someone once again said, the law is short not to have much to be tortured to find where the provision is mentioned and finally sensitization as someone also said was a process, sensitization for people with disabilities. Well, let us also have a little bit of self-thanks, a teaching assistant who, among other things, helps disabled people in 2011. It was 146 today, 1500. There's so much about sensitization shifts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98587	I thank the Deputy Minister. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98588	Let's move on. Proposal for a Law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 772; The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. "The proposal for a law on Croatian Sign Language and other systems of communication of deaf and deaf persons in the Republic of Croatia is being adopted. Any objections and suggestions and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please vote on the proposal for this conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 109 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against the vote was reached by the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98589	And today's work day will end with a debate on the next three agenda points. The debate is in line with the agreement of clubs united. These are: - Final draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 784; - Final proposal of the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 783; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 782. The proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposals? Yeah. Dear Igor Radenovic, Deputy Finance Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, in this united opening debate, touch the most important amendments to the most important points of these proposals all three draft laws. So the basics in all three cases are all these laws, so the new Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions, new in terms of the name, and these are also new draft laws because of the amount of change, but the laws that existed in the Credit Institutions Act and the Capital Market Act, I say the primary motive for this proposal, are, in fact, the implementation of Directive 59 BRD of the 2014 Directive, which, in the European Union, tried to establish a system and instruments for sufficient early and rapid intervention in institutions, financial institutions that are on the road to collapse or have already come to a situation that has really failed. The financial crisis several years ago has shown that clearly in the European financial system, there is a certain lack of appropriate instruments in the European Union to address the problem of these unhealthy or fallen credit institutions and investment companies effectively. Therefore, the adoption of this directive, therefore driven by the financial crisis, has often resulted in some countries and us neighbouring but also some other countries resulting in... the costs of disbursement of these credit institutions on the burden of taxpayers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is estimated that this is no longer happening, so in the future, such events would be avoided or reduced to at least the least possible measure, so that taxpayers themselves ultimately pay for something that they did not cause or which they were too late to react to. This Directive, therefore, which is now being incorporated into these three draft laws, has elaborated and established ways and tools and order of use for future recoverys of credit institutions and investment companies. We've been lucky all these years that it hasn't happened to us, but I'm saying it's not burning to set up a better fuse. Therefore, the basic objective of this law is to build an effective system of resolutions that should ensure that the costs of the recovery of a certain failing institution are borne by taxpayers, as I told the witness to the minimum extent possible. All of this is achieved by applying internal recovery instruments which ensure that the primary shareholders and creditors of that institution are the first to bear losses and take the appropriate part of the costs resulting from the failure of the institution. Therefore, the application of this instrument gives shareholders and creditors a strong incentive to monitor the health of the institution itself, if we can call it so in a Colloquial manner during its business. It is only as a last resort, therefore, after all recovery instruments are used to the extent possible and in order to preserve the financial stability of certain institutions, state instruments of financial stabilisation can also be used, in accordance with the regulations and rules governing state support in the financial sector, so as to be the last option, if there is no one else to come to these budgetary assistances. The law defines these rehabilitation bodies. And when we talk about them then it is primarily the Croatian National Bank as a resolution body for a credit institution and a group of credit institutions, there is then the HANFA as an investment company's resolution body, a group of investment companies and any financial institution for which the State Agency is responsible and also for the insurance of savings deposits or the resolution of banks, or shorter to you as DAB, which is for credit institutions and a group of credit institutions, investment companies, groups of investment companies and individual financial institutions. A few words about the basic objectives, principles and instruments for recovery. So this bill defines the basic objectives which need to be managed by these resolution bodies that I have listed, each of which is therefore a liability zone. And it's like the first insurance for the continuity of key functions. So the aim of the rescue is to maintain the key functions of the bank and ultimately, in fact, all these institutions and ultimately survive the institution itself. The second objective is to avoid a greater adverse impact on financial stability, in particular by preventing the spread of savings effects on the financial system as a whole. The third basic objective is to protect public funds so that, at the very least, rely on potentially extraordinary financial support. The fourth is the protection of depositors that have secured deposits, up to 100 000 euros per depositor, and the investment of a protected investor protection system and the protection of assets, the property of clients to the minimum extent possible. When we talk about principles then I have already mentioned it several times, so one of the most important principles that the losses and costs of eventually recovery are borne primarily by shareholders, the owners of the institution and then the creditors of the institution in the recovery then come later and, later on, I will say about the Sanantia fund and then finally I say budgetary resources if it really is necessary. As far as the instruments are concerned, the shortest way for DAB is to make four basic instruments available to implement the resolution itself. It is an instrument of sale, an instrument of a transitional institution, an instrument of separation of assets and an instrument of internal rehabilitation known in the professional public as... So resuscitation to the burden of the believers and owners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the recovery fund and what we propose, therefore, by this law, that within 10, 10 years, certain financial resources should be accumulated, so by 31 December 2004, this recovery fund would have to be 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions and all those who have the approval to work in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, they will be required to pay one-year payments to the recovery fund for a previous contribution, and in the event that the funds available to the sanity fund are not sufficient to cover the loss of costs or other expenditures will be approached, I say take all of this conditionally as I say, collected from the same financial institutions if I say so, we did not need all these years, and we believe that this will remain the case. So the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks on behalf of and for the account of the Sanantia Fund, so it will be the one who manages that recovery fund that will collect previous contributions like I said, the apriors all these years will accumulate those funds. 1% is therefore, 1% of the amount of deposits secured is 1.7 billion kuna and I say the exact amount of these funds 1% will be determined according to the revised financial statements for the previous year. And as I said by 31 December 2024, that fund should be completed. Unless God has given him another situation to have the power to collect and make subsequent contributions if these accumulated funds are not enough, this law allows him to negotiate certain loans and other additional sources of potential funding. Here's so much about the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies which is therefore a new Law before us. There was something like this, those who followed it more closely until 2000, from '94. By 2000 there was another law, and in order to solve it differently through the systems of liquidation, we now get a lex specialis again on a possible recovery When we talk about major amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, better known as the ZOKI Colloquial, it is also the basis for it and for the Capital Market Act to actually comply with Directive 59... the bank resuscitation of the directive with which these amendments to the law are therefore harmonised. So when we talk about the Credit Institutions Act, let me make six of the most important changes. The first is that provisions on recovery plans developed by credit institutions have been supplemented. So the first recovery plans of the credit institution were required to make and deliver them to the CNB and I believe them by the end of the previous year 2014 by the basis of the applicable law. Now the provisions that these recovery plans must contain and what they look like are further complemented. A part is then added which regulates the possibility of conclusion of a financial support agreement within a group of credit institutions. These agreements should therefore be concluded by members of a group of credit institutions and with a view to ensuring mutual financial support when one or more signatories meet the conditions for early intervention. They are introduced as the third change in the measure of the early intervention imposed by the CNB, so this is its role when the situation in the credit institution is such that according to CNB estimates, liquidity, insolvency or sustainability of a particular institution's business would be compromised. The most influential measures envisaged by the CNB there to implement, means the introduction of a replacement member of the administration, administrator, special administration, means a considerable expansion of the early intervention of the so-called so-called intervention. public interventions. An area of forced liquidation shall also be regulated in such a way that the CNB as a resolution body decides to initiate forced liquidation if it is established in the recovery plan that the recovery of that credit institution is not in the public interest or if the DAB as a resolution authority has decided that there are no conditions for the opening of the recovery procedure of that credit institution. The bankruptcy reasons shall be consistent with the grounds for the initiation of the recovery, so the proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure for the possible opening of a bankruptcy procedure remains and may only be submitted by the CNB as a recovery body, and the part governing the bankruptcy of the credit institution located in the recovery shall be added. Only Dab can submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings in that situation. So the powers and responsibilities of each of these three bodies are clearly delimited. These are the basic amendments concerning the wording of compliance with the directive and which all of your and my colleagues have implemented or implemented in their parliaments and have incorporated into their national legislation. What we have added, and which is not important for this Directive, which we estimate to be certain shifts in the existing, repairs to the existing Credit Institutions Act is to extend the scope of persons in a special relationship with the credit institution, to further regulate temporary payment bans, and to add a new area governing the protection of depositors. It's a rather extensive measure, so I wouldn't have to go further on that. What is likely to be discussed is the government amendment adopted at a telephone session these days if I am not mistaken on Monday, which was practically a lot of debate in this home and in general in the public where we extend the temporary measure we have adopted in the Consumer Credit Act and the freezing of courses to 6.39. And so this amendment, in fact, two amendments that are here before you, we join... Articles 156 and 157 so far in one Article 156, while Article 157 is amended by amendment 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which says here, I say very much similar to those that we have incorporated into the Consumer Credit Act but here is not long, so let me read it. Therefore, paragraph 1 of Article 157: For credit contracts of natural persons carrying out the activities of free professions, craftsmen, traders of individuals and holders of family holdings concluded in CHF, namely the Swiss franc and kuna with a currency clause in the Swiss franc, for annuities or meals in regular payment of the Swiss franc rate according to kuna shall be determined at 6,39 for a Swiss franc, and for a period of no more than one year from the entry into force of this law. The difference in the level of annuity or meals, on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, in relation to the exchange rate freely established on the market of foreign payment funds, on the basis of the offer and demand, is the cost of credit institutions, is set out in the second paragraph of this Article and, therefore, paragraph 3 of this Article states that the provisions of this Article relate of course to contracts concluded before the entry into force of this Act. The arguments were clear, they were made public, very much so in this assembly. There are not as many of these loans as could be heard somewhere, but due to a sudden reaction, it is already a bit calmer situation, but you will remember that it was very tense, therefore, so the Swiss National Bank and the sudden increase in the Swiss franc rate compared to kuna, on the basis of which I say, changed the Consumer Credit Act, in the extension that I say so in a way that, as we did some year ago, we also solved through the Law on Credit Institutions, in fact through both laws, that first blow of the Swiss franc, and this amendment, we suggest that the same degree of protection that we have provided to ordinary citizens for consumer credit and natural persons who carry out therefore the activity of the free professions, craftsmen, traders and family agricultural economies. So much for the Credit Institutions Act. And last and not least important Act on allow a few words about the bill proposal, so on amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act. The law was passed for the first time, the law was first passed in 2008. It has changed four times as a rule due to compliance with, therefore, new European directives and relations so far, and this one is, in fact, installing the provisions set out in that several times mentioned directive 59 of last year. As regards the amendments to this law, the recovery plan of the investment company is primarily regulated, i.e. the obligation to prevent the investment company from taking measures to improve the financial position of that investment company, and in the event of a deterioration of the business indicator. The recovery plan is adopted by the Investment Society Administration, and the plan is submitted to the HANFA for approval before the application. Investment firms are obliged to update the plan once a year, meaning very similar to that of the HNB Credit Institutions Act according to banks, so here investment companies and HANFA are practically equal to the provisions. The second major amendment is to add a part that regulates the possibility of a financial support agreement within a group of investment companies. So, also a certain link. So, if one or more financial companies within the group meet the conditions for early intervention, then we are practically asking that the Colloquial brothers and sisters step in first again and help, by giving credit or loans, by issuing a guarantee or by providing guarantees, by establishing a right to hostage or by transferring ownership rights over property or by any combination of any of these measures. The third and most significant change in these amendments to the law, so on the capital market and the last one that I am going to present to you today, are the measures of HANFA and the early intervention measures of HANFA which can impose on us an investment company, and in case it estimates that a particular investment company is coming into a worse financial position. Thus, the HANFA may require the assembly of the General Assembly of the Society, or members of the Society itself, or may convene such a session. It may, if deemed necessary, present a report on the business of an investment firm which it has drawn up on the basis of the supervision carried out. Moreover, HANFA may relieve one or more members of the management or senior management of an investment firm if it finds that the same is not in the position of a good businessman to carry out his duties and may also require a change in the business strategy of the investment company. Here's the esteemed ladies and gentlemen, I hope I didn't tire you too much of this opening letter about this really quite on the one hand professional and narrow, and on the other hand, a really extensive and extensive text in these three bill proposals. In the mood for further discussion and I believe these laws will get your support tomorrow, actually the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98591	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. This is a replica to the deputy minister's presentation, and at the same time to all of us to see what's being served. Thus, in its first amendment, the government said Articles 156 and 157 were joined, and then the second amendment said Article 157 was amended. How can something change if something's joined up? Therefore, according to our Rules of Procedure, amendments can only be given to articles that change. Since the article is not only amended here, the title above the article is also changed, because the title is not an integral part of the article, and since it is stated in the explanation because of the logical link between matter so far Articles 156 and 157 are merged in one Article 156. We have practically consummated the amendment, the possibility of amendments to Article 157, because he no longer exists after this first amendment. However, the second amendment to the government says Article 157 is changed and it reads: "There is nothing to change that we have abolished by the previous amendment." And second thing, I say this title above the article is not an article, but it's a title and it can't be an amendment read: "A reasonable provision regarding Swiss franc loans and kuna loans with a Swiss franc currency clause." I know that the government tried to find a solution after the pressure and non-acceptation of the HDZ Club's conclusion. However, we in the House cannot allow this solution to be sought against the Rules of Procedure. The government could have done it in a completely different way. She could have made an amendment to Article 156 and put in it what she was going to put and make an amendment to Article 157 and put what she was planning on putting in it. Therefore, in this argument the Government cannot possibly stand to combine Articles 156 and 157 but simply...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98593	We understood and the time ran out Replication response, respected Deputy Igor Radjenovic. [[I'm sorry, I didn't see.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ha, if I responded indirectly, I'd say it doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, if it matters if it hunts mice, the content of these changes and additions is important, and if we really want to. Prime Minister's amendment and do we really want to install this story, in fact, a provision that we made in consumer lending. Mr. Shuker, you know that I personally did and while I was sitting in these benches and now I'm listening with full respect. Your discussions very often and not very much of the joy of my colleagues and I compliment on them and especially on this function I think that the gro of your discussions is well-intentioned. But this one, and I was expecting that maybe this replica, and we'll see later the discussion goes on about the content of this law. What you're talking about is the legal norms and the relationship of how we want to build up, so in a legal way we're going to build into the possibility of the Rules of Procedure and this Parliament. I must admit, I'm aware that this is not the happiest solution and that it causes certain controversy and caused them in our discussions. But like I said, neither you nor I are lawyers. The government's legislation office has failed to make such a suggestion. Therefore, I believe that he will also receive support from the Office and, therefore, for legislation, an apology from the Committee on Parliament and Parliament's legislation as a whole. I say, I expected you to concentrate more or maybe I'd like to hear from you and your colleagues... Well, I know, that's why I told you to speak well, but let's leave it to the lawyers. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You and I are economists, and let them decide whether this is possible or not, we're gonna have to change something. Our government lawyers have assured us that this is possible, so we ask for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98595	If you allow one comment, it's important that everything be business and impeccable, it's important. It's important in this House whether the cat is black or white, it doesn't only matter if it hunts mice. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Mr Linić, Vuksic and Hodzic will speak to the esteemed representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The club will support all three bill proposals. But what does it matter to say about these laws? The procedure for the adoption of European directives lasted almost 2 years. A huge disagreement between the European Parliament, which was very much on the watch for legal form, legal procedure for the simple reason that huge powers are given to the institutions of the state to act and take away the rights of shareholders. It is something that is the opposite I would say freedom of the market, but it is estimated that the banking system is the one that has a huge impact on both the financial sector and the economic system without talking about savings and that these rights should be given. On the other hand, by solving the banking crisis and wanting to unite banking policy, we had that basic problem, which is a huge difference in Europe's banking systems. We have banking systems that are completely down, which are in a difficult situation, heavy dues, and we have banks that have been rehabilitated, and that's most of the taxpayers' money. And then there was a big debate in that it was not allowed to now resuscitate large banking systems that have not yet been rescheduled to small exposures, I would say their daughters who have already been recovered from taxpayers' money and that in fact this reform of the banking system is not particularly costing the last EU members entering with a more stable banking system. Unfortunately, I must say that in the very strong conflicts that existed between the members of the European Community precisely because we are starting from an unequal position many are starting with a stable banking system and we are expected to have great instability in large banks. So now that we're wondering, how does Croatia get into this banking European reform? And then what good do we know that Croatia always stands out? The only stability is the banking system. Citizens failed, the poor, the economy couldn't recover and the banking system was becoming less and less in function of the economy. That's our position. And what else is our position? Our position is that the largest banks, the banks of the daughters of large banking systems that don't look very well, have lost a lot in international money transactions and that will have to go through certain processes. Whether these programmes are related to early intervention measures or are purely recovery plans. And what's problematic for us is that these measures will, in part, include our daughters' banks. And that means that the capital in our banks that is now solid, quality will have to be used to recapture a lot of bad banking giants in Europe. Unfortunately, Europe's banking reform brings this to Croatia. And I would say that the benefits of this stable banking system that should be in the recovery of the economy tomorrow will be used in a good part for the recovery of Europe's banking system. And that is why we have to say that we will not have positive effects from these new banking measures, new banking reforms. The stable banking system of Croatia will be in place as special measures, especially I expect significant early intervention measures as the European Central Bank will do very well and we will have to make a major contribution through the banks of daughters in Croatia. So much so that we try to understand that it was very important to assess the state of the banking system in this banking reform. I really agree when we talk about the draft amending and supplementing law on credit institutions and also about the capital market that all of this is okay. Therefore, we have very strong recovery plans, that we already know in advance where the problem is and that we can intervene. I also agree that in time it is necessary to take special early intervention measures and I estimate that it is correct that supervisory authorities in Croatia should do so, and that is the National Bank in banking institutions and credit institutions and in the capital markets that it is HANFA. That they should have full, full independence, because I guess today, after two years of debate in Europe, it is very clear that the state must have special instruments in order to prevent, in time and early intervention, the negative impact of the disturbances in credit institutions or funds, which could have an impact on the entire economy and on public finances, given that what times it is necessary and money is needed. I also believe that far more quality solutions that talk about opening bankruptcy are possible if other instruments can't solve the situation in credit institutions because I don't think there's going to be spilling or reducing deposits, split deposits, that they won't be able to make payments before the bankruptcy process is opened, as it has been, but I believe that ad will also suspend the practice that bankruptcy takes place for the 15th year. Indeed we can mark that the bankruptcy of Glamina Bank has been 15 years, the bankruptcy of the City Bank Osijek for about 15 years and this shows that the laws so far have been very, very bad. And it's obvious that in bankruptcy a far greater role should be played by the National Bank as a regulator at least in that part, and then the court should take over the part that says that the creditors from the mass that remains will be compensated. Therefore, I believe that far better solutions will not repeat the mistakes they have made. But that's why I have to say that it bothers me that we've allowed the proceedings to end under the old laws, so I'm going to slowly conclude that they will never be concluded. You know, in Alumina's bank, they still don't recognize claims... for paid deposits, they still don't admit after 15 years. So the question is, could we really say one article clearly that there must be an end to bankruptcy, it has to end, as old as it is, but within what time? In 15 days. We're not gonna lose anything, we're not gonna lose anything, because it's just unacceptable that the judiciary gives itself the right to do jobs for 15 years that I don't know what the function is, I don't know what the function is. So when we look at these two laws, I think it is very important to know that a stable banking system does not go in favour of the Croatian economy this time, it will go in favour of the adoption of temporary measures and early intervention measures for large banking systems. And that is why we need the National Bank to communicate with other national banks of the members of the European Community and the Central European Bank, as well as Hanfa, in order to make sure that we do not endanger the stability of this banking system because of the implementation of these regulations in Europe. And now something about the bank's recovery. I must say that the club disagrees with the proposed law in the part where you define who should be the bearer of the sanity procedure. And apparently the over-influence of the National Bank of Self-will has led to the fact that we have both the National Bank and the Hanfa on the resuscitation that these bodies have nothing to look for in the recovery is the recovery of a series of measures that can have a major impact on public finances, on the economy. Therefore, the authorities of the state institution who had to receive the only authority in the implementation of the resolution are not the National Bank and Hanfa. No, this is pure spite and pushing it to the punch line. So look at the transition of those opening remarks, and you'll see that the National Bank and Hanfa will have to separate their departments. One part will be as regulator, controller, supervision under existing regulations on the Credit Institutions Act. And the brand-new departments will be to manage the recoverys. Now I'm asking you why we're giving the National Bank the right to do the recovery process? We don't have to give it, we don't have to give it to Hanfa. We shouldn't have given it, and we shouldn't have given it. In the good work of European countries it will be directly under the authority of the executive and, let's say, in Croatia we have DMP. The state agency shouldn't have been more for security savings than for recovery, and that's where we were supposed to separate the state agency from the bank and what's called security savings, so that's the money of the banking system, let them manage it themselves, be on their own. But the resolution of banks that must make sure that the directive really respects, that they intend, that the objectives of the directive are no longer to go to the burden of public money, that it no longer goes to the burden of resuscitating the banking system to the burden of taxpayers rather than to make sure that all the burden goes to shareholders, to the good work of the creditors and to the internal recovery. But it can be carried out by an independent body under the control of the government, but not by the National Bank, because the National Bank is a monetary government, and this is the executive authority responsible for public finances. And I think it's a completely wrong solution. We've given power to resuscitate HANFA and the National Bank, needlessly, and that's where we'll have a number of problems. I'm asking you now, and when will the resolution go through the National Bank, and when will it go after DAB, when, if DAB says I don't give the money, the National Bank will say I don't open the bankruptcy. We'll have a series of problems and a series of conflicts. Unnecessarily, unquality solution or vice versa, if it's already been assessed that although DAB has proven that it has professional personnel that it can handle recovery processes, then we could throw it out and leave it all to the People's Bank, we leave everything to the HANFA. But no, we like simple compromises that won't produce the necessary results. You have to understand when it comes to compromise, it is contrary to what it says that we bring all these regulations in order to quickly and effectively address the bad situation in the banking system. And that's why I don't know if it has any more purpose, the laws have been proposed that we're making amendments at all and we're kicking out of the Restitution Act project, which is a brand-new banking system and the HANFA as supervisory bodies, because it won't give us full effect, it'll bring about conflict. And let's be honest with the People's Bank's interest is the stability of the banking system and that it cares about public finances and the impact on public finances. He won't think of it as executive power. And that's something I think we need to change and that the government should change. I don't have time to say the solutions we received today through the amendment. We will support them, but any shortfall, as well as in point and point, will give the banking system the opportunity to knock it down in any court. Let's not let that happen if we just create legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98597	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, the esteemed Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98598	Thank you very much. A colleague of Linić's in part of your debate concerning the rehabilitation process where you spoke about the role of DAB, HANFA and CNB entirely from word to word I agree with you. There is no example anywhere today in the world economically that there is a State Agency for Savings Deposits and Bank Rehabilitation in one institution. It's so unnatural and unnatural that it can't be accepted anymore, it can't be tolerated anymore, it has to change. This is an ideal opportunity to change. But this is also proof that the CNB is re-terrorizing and that we can see who was involved in the design. The CNB representatives insisted that they participate in the recovery process. They can't approach the process during recovery, they can't be within a mile because it's not their job, they can't do that. For their failures that they did because when something goes into rehab then they miss the regulatory body, then they want to control it as they wanted to control during the liquidation of Credo Bank when they unblocked the account for 60 seconds, and they didn't have to take it down and take off 7 or 8 million kunas. Remember that? Again, such abuse threatens, and let us not support solutions that are not good. Not that they're not good, they're extremely bad, they're harmful. These laws were to be passed but these laws are being prepared more systematically, more precisely and the procedure is being followed. This as HANFA and HNB isolate the DAB which is the only liability it is inadmissible and it is high time to divide DAB into an agency that will provide savings roles and a bank recovery agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98599	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98600	...in the debate, I couldn't say anything about the rescue fund. This recovery fund will be more or less a European recovery fund, it will be managed by the DAB, it has no doubt, but it is very important that then decisions on the recovery that will be made under this proposal and the National Bank have no negative influences because the government will have problems explaining why it provides for the resolution of something that perhaps European partners will not accept and we will have a problem withdrawing their money. For 10 years, we've been filling up a fund of renaissance, which means we'll have to be in debt if we have any disturbances. Please understand, it's not just the recovery of our banks in Croatia, it's the rehabilitation of mothers banks that may have problems before, we will participate in this recovery, since our daughters are part of that system is going together. And now I'm saying again, everyone should have a job. The bank's recovery is a business of the executive government, hence those legs of the government that talk about the preservation of finances, financial stability, stability related to public finances and burden on taxpayers. It's not the National Bank's job. At the same time, the National Bank deals with the banking system, the credit system, it has a programme of measures to worry about someone getting prescribed, it has an urgency through those temporary measures, so it also has the right to bankruptcy management and opening up bankruptcy, but should not interfere with resolutions. Why? Is that what the public funds are for?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98601	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98602	Thank you very much. When the CNB Act is in line with the EU Directive, the most provoking question of any assessment of the Assembly will give about the report of the Governor of the CNB is imagine there some representatives in the Croatian Parliament will take the right to adopt or not adopt the CNB report which becomes part of something that is in Brussels. And then we fought for that independence, now we've been fighting for the CNB to be completely independent, so no one can order anything. But it's very interesting that the CNB puts quite a bit of an archaic to some of the solutions that were in the '90s. It's our luck, so in the financial crisis, we didn't have a banking crisis because of some of the measures that were put in place because of something else they proved to be great in that crisis. But here it's very interesting that what is the situation with the mothers of the banks that are the owners of our banks. And that's what might be the biggest questionnaire and what we in this whole story need to be afraid of. Because if in a crisis every European country has shown that it is seeking maximum protection, I think that we too could respect all European Union directives but find a fuse. I'll tell you just to convince one meeting was 6.10. ECOFIN in Luxembourg when a decision was made to increase the insurance savings of citizens in banks. That's when they practically already smelled what was going to happen but by then no one wanted to talk, then we had enough of what was. And so this amendment of the law tells us that obviously someone is sniffing out what's going to happen in that way that they want to protect themselves first and then we're going to turn out to be suckers and fools in that game. Just one more sentence if you can. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's very interesting that we've turned HANFA into an administrative body and now we're raising it to a large regulator who should be conducting rehabilitation procedures. [[Come on.]] So there's no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98603	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98604	The government's interest should be full responsibility for public finances and any impact on taxpayers when it comes to the financial sector. The entire reform of European banking is resting right on the story. There is no more resolution of banks from taxpayers' money. We'll use everything to use it to be on the burden of shareholders and creditors and internal reserves. And that's why the National Bank has huge powers. These powers stem from the impact on the plans to be adopted in order to restore the entire banking system. Emergency and early intervention measures, all of these are the enormous powers that the National Bank receives in these initial measures and is turning towards shareholders, creditors and... And finally, if the bank estimates that the bank can no longer function, it makes a decision on bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can first determine that there is a need for recapitalisation, additional funds and then turn to the government, give more damage will be if there is bankruptcy than if you try even with recovery. But she's talking to the government, she can't handle the procedure, she can't be the body running the recovery process, she can't. And especially when you look at it, the National Bank will have to hire new people to do it, so we'll have new people in DAB, new people in the National Bank, new people in HANFA. Because it has to be completely separate sectors, they have nothing to do with the regulator. So the regulator is something special, the recovery is special. Now you explain to me what it means to be in the National Bank, you don't respect monetary policies. And logic than you have to protect public finances. [[Intruder: Time]] It's no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98605	Thank you. You just want to turn yourself off, be nice. The time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club will be shared by respected colleagues Nikola Vuljanić and Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. First of all, I would like to say that these three documents that we have received, and in particular the Credit Institutions Act, are extremely impregnable. Extraordinary. I spent a few hours yesterday wandering around, looking for the resolutions he's calling for, some I've found, some I haven't, some I've been since I was in Brussels, and some I still have, and I have insights on my computer. But I guess other than three, four specialists and experts here, we other laymen very, very hard to read these documents. So I'd like to pray in the future if we call on such a resolution or part of the resolution that we adapt, our regulations we adapt to the resolution might get, and that will be simpler for us. But perhaps it is such a naive objection and perhaps it is not quite an accident, perhaps such documents go out in an incomprehensible form because they don’t really need many people to understand them. The Croatian National Bank, which is the bank's bank manager in Croatia, which is to be prevented, overrun or I don't know what to do with banks or credit institutions that will eventually get into trouble, will now implement the resolution of these credit institutions. That sounds totalitarian and very, very, very dangerous. But banking works by its own rules that the laymen don't understand. This has now been seen by all these people who have found themselves in credit problems and which obviously laymen and do not need to understand because they do not serve these regulations to laymen, do not serve these regulations to citizens, do not serve these regulations to clients, serve banks. Banks are profitable institutions they need to make a profit, if in very small letters and very illiterately down there they write something that is very important to them so who is to blame to those who come there to borrow money or to do other transactions that they have not been able to read and understand. Let them choose to go to economic college, finish their banking studies, and maybe they'll figure something out. It's all sitting on our backs. We used to be banks back in the '90s, then we gave them to the thieves on the run, the thieves ruined them the way the thieves were already doing it. Then we rescheduled it nicely with our own money and sold it for a lot less money than we'd been able to get rid of. Now they're the ones we sold it to, and now they're sitting on our backs, and we're having problems with them. We've got problems with them. We are not quite sure how they will behave in relation to their banks to the mothers who bought them, in which way they will be able to protect the interests of the Croatian state, and no one really discusses the interests of Croatian citizens. Partly because the regulations look what they look like, it's easier. The banking union, the European Banking Union, a lot of talk and a lot of years about it, should serve precisely this, that the burden of relieving bad gambling fraud and any other bank sector moves is not borne by taxpayers but by those whose banks are, therefore, shareholders of these banks, possibly some of the depositors of these banks, but not all of us together, because when banks make profits, they don't fall to their heads to share it with all of us together. So the profit is private, and the loss is, of course, public, the loss we all need to cover because it's our very precious banking system. I personally wouldn't cry especially if some bank fell apart, I don't know what's supposed to shock me so much. Namely, the financial capital that is invented capital and virtual, which actually does not exist and we all know it, wanted it to be recognized or not, he rules the world, government and Croatian of course, and the strongest weapon is his cowardice and in fact the unwillingness to say the emperor is naked. It's not there, it doesn't exist. As some there in some Iceland, some Uruguay said, the emperor is naked, ruined, come on, go home, so what? How much do we owe to these banks both as a state and as individuals? We borrowed 100, now you can see from the example of some credits and the media, you've returned 10 again, we owe another 200. Are we actually in debt or is it something that only happened on bankers' computers? The law will be brought into line with everything that is needed and what is not needed, and after that, we will not be much smarter. The various criminal cooperatives are still ruining the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and today they are charged interest rates and are doing their due diligence. Whoever's supposed to be protecting us, and that's the CNB on that has nothing to say, so they don't really have a comment on that. Well, we could let go in the meantime... Luciana and Al Pacina with bags of money to lend interest here what they did to those rectors of these cooperatives, and he could come on leave and Sanader would take some of those bags out and borrow, there would be nothing different. Every single one of us knows a camera. Is he different from these banks? Well, no. or from these savings-credit cooperatives as they are already called. Where's our end? So it's over for us to open our eyes and say no people, let's try to reset capitalism and start over. There are smarter ways to manage the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98607	The debate will continue on behalf of the club, the respected Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98608	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I will continue where my colleague Vuljanić has left off, and that is the question when we talk about financial institutions and when we talk about such a extensive matter, the alignment with the European Union directives where it really is a comprehensive reading, and especially when we talk about the Capital Market Act that has been adopted, which has been changed four times and is primarily changed with the harmonisation of the European Union directives, and this is also the fifth amendment, which means that slowly when it comes to financial institutions, not only what we say that some country's 70% of the legislation should be in line with the European Union. When we talk about financial institutions, then it seems 100% should be, that we will definitely lose our independence in this way because everything will be practically dictated to us, and we are clearly asking ourselves what it means when it comes to the resolution of the banking system, when it comes to problems in banks, in banks that are domestical in other countries and what it means. Does that mean when they sneeze that then we're going to have a severe pneumonia and we're going to have a hard time putting up with it, primarily because we're too small and because we're not going to have our own independence when it comes to the banking system. And what the deputy minister was saying, which is the question, our banks are preserved in these times of crisis. Yes, banks are preserved, banks are stable, banks have profit and good business, but the further we have from these banks. What our economy is, our economy has been destroyed to the end. In what situation are our citizens blocked by accounts, which are practically dependent on all those instruments that were practically banked to them. The banks certainly knew how to charge themselves, but the consequences of crisis situations are the reason, and that's exactly the part where the big blame is on banks the way they acted. So what do we do now? We are now practically through this part of the recovery and the establishment of restitution funds in some way indirectly and we say if there will be problems in a bank outside Croatia, then from these funds we will be able to incur in that part and allocate these specific funds to resupply these banks and whether it will not be indirectly within that price again we will pay here. I don't know, but the basic question is that within that, we have our own legislation, financial independence, monetary policy very badly run, that as a country and clearly that certain consequences that can very much be on our economy and on the state of citizens. And in the part where I look back at the amendment. whether this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. I think this is necessary, because the problem of the OPG and the problem of craftsmen and others not covered by that part of the change to the Consumer Credit Act is necessary in this part to protect primarily small family farms because they are truly in an uninvited situation. And clearly Croatian Labourists were the first to point out that part of the problem until we saw the proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act. We have already warned about the part where it might happen, and knowing what situation and duty with the Swiss francs are in these family OPGs that are barely surviving today and which can have very great consequences for their survival at all. This part, as well as consumer lending, and also here the fixation of the Swiss franc exchange rate is one fire measure. But I'm asking a certain question when we put it into a certain law about what's going to happen to the Swiss franc course, which is going to happen inside of it if the Swiss franc falls under 6.39, which we can do then. One thing we can do is we can go through an emergency procedure and change the law, because then it will go to harm to these already exhausted and citizens, but also to certain small entrepreneurs and the agricultural economy. Clearly, these are all things to look for completely different solutions. This is one fire measure, this is, this is help at a given moment, but this fire measure has to be as short as possible and we definitely want to get to recovery, to get to some greater stability and security then we have to take some other measures, because I'm afraid with these fire measures tomorrow we can only do even more damage. And Croatian Labourists are clear that in order to protect these people who have borrowed credit, who today cannot repay these loans, who are fighting for their survival that we will support this solution independently. I think that the government has the possibility of going through the amendment even though it is not covered by a certain law, and this is also about harmonising with EU directives and this is one space that we can interpret on this basis. But at the end of the day, it's clear that finally the final position on it can be taken over by the Constitutional Court, and that's why the danger is within it, and it needs to be taken care of every wheel and every mark, that something that we think is good tomorrow turns out to be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98609	I thank you for this second part of the exposure. The Republic stands up as respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98610	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, so we've all said here that it's undeniable to help citizens, businesses, OPGs who have loans in Swiss. But now I really don't get it. We are adopting this thick-headed Credit Institutions Act, where in principle 99% of the text of this law speaks about how the CNB should behave in a variety of situations regarding the banking sector. At the same time, in this law, the Government embellishes with its amendment provisions which are contrary to the Foreign Exchange Act and which are contrary to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. So that's what's not going to my head at all. One populist measure because it will lead to a series of problems in the future that could have been solved in a far more elegant way for the simple reason that all three parties in the process and the CNB who did not respond in time and business banks who did not clearly warn citizens about the dangers and citizens who took the loan were ready to agree. And then the basis of that agreement could have brought a legal solution, and we're not talking here about what role the CNB will play in the recovery of banks, this, that, at the same time, and at the same time, we're prescribing one provision that the bank doesn't get me wrong, reducing revenues with this and that. So it simply proves that this amendment, no matter how much we want to help legal persons and the OPGs, is not the place here, it had to be regulated elsewhere. But I'm saying this House is obviously due to certain populist measures, it's going to start bringing in a lot of things, so tomorrow someone's going to call us responsible for why we passed a law that's contrary to the positive regulations because we know who sets the course, how the course is determined, and what that means. So we here order the CNB to do something, and at the same time, we practically disabling what is one of the basic jobs that the CNB has.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98611	The replica corresponds to the representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98612	Thank you. So, you rightly warn your colleague Shuker of a part of the problem. The government used it because there was a law on credit institutions in the parliamentary procedure and practically used it to install something inside. I agree with you that the solutions were supposed to be different, but what do we have today? We have today to keep the CNB quiet about this whole thing, there's no voice from it. She was silent, and when it came to loans in Swiss francs, she did not warn. Yeah, they say we've been warned, but how so, quietly warned and about the consequences at the given moment let someone else pay. The Croatian National Bank should have used some other instruments as they do in some other countries and then clearly not to have such a situation. It's not quiet enough to say no, we don't know what tomorrow will be and how the Swiss franc course will be going tomorrow, clearly none of us know it and there's no glass ball to predict it, but the way it's being pushed by the banks here with us, which are pretty much resolved with Croatian citizens' money, and the way they've seen their benefit, knowing that the Swiss franc won't fall, but that they're only going to grow there and they've seen their own benefits, and the CNB has been silent there, has not played its part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98613	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak to the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98614	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, Mr. Radenovic, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Finance. In fact, you've explained a lot in your introduction, a lot of it. We're sorry at the HDSSB club that it's an emergency procedure. We know that European directives must be implemented in a good way, but we do not have to rush anywhere. So there were more important things to solve. But looking at these today's materials and at the beginning of today's session, we just talked about what is on the agenda and at point 66, which is a proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the legal halting of the execution, kidnapping and occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own. This would be much more important to us for the urgency of the procedure because it is precisely for the citizens and we are adapting the laws but also for the state. But looking at all three legal solutions then it turns out that we are taking care of banks that have been doing pretty safe and stable in the past years. But also seeing that some institutions did not operate under these laws, and this morning we talked about Raiffeisen, and during the day, I also got a letter from the people who were watching this Parliament, so a man from Poreč raised 180,000, and in the payment plan, they had to pay 240 thousand, and in the end, it had to pay 307,000 euros. So I ask you when someone does business like that for sure, and when they do it in collaboration with public notebooks, then we wonder if the CNB did her part of the job or not? We can say no. But looking at these laws, I'm going to start with what really intrigued us at the club, and it's about a bill on amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act with a final bill. So let's look at Article 325 for damage, then I have to admit as if it was written by the governor, and we in the Parliament just need to raise our hands. He says, "HNB, CNB workers, members of the CNB Council or any person who has authorised the CNB shall not be liable for any damage incurred during the course of their duties under this Act, the CNB Act and the regulations adopted under those laws unless it is demonstrated that they have done or failed to make a specific action deliberately or extremely negligent." So when we look at the collapse of banks in Croatia especially in the '90s, and I ask you from this pay phone, Mr. Linic was just talking about the length of bankruptcy, for example, the City Bank, which lasts 15 years, so why did those who sent that bank not answer because of the opening of the bankruptcy itself, and they proved to have charged more than they had obligations in these years? So when you want to do something wrong right now, I'm surprised you can write it in the law. The irresponsibility of the CNB has been demonstrated, and when we talk about Swiss, when we talk about their ability to regulate the market in Croatia, and also about lending themselves, because we all know that we work for kunas, we don't work for Swiss, we don't work for dollars, we don't work for euros, and if these articles indicate that they are washing hands and they won't have any responsibilities, so they can raise all 4, they can be in Croatia whoever they want. So we at the club when we watch it's the CNB we think it's actually the bank of banks, not the CNB because when we look at all these collapses and the rehabilitation of Croatian banks, when we're looking at '95. by 2000 that Croatia had singled out 18 billion and that it remained 10 billion short or when we look at these 5 billion since 2000, so to this day we can safely say that we had to pass these laws much earlier. So when we talk about certain articles about related societies where many banks have fallen precisely because of these related societies and other things, then we can say that some European regulations should have been prescribed much earlier, not when we had the kind of expense that we had and when we gave the banks in fact to invaluable and when we can't implement policies today, do we not have levers. We know that banks have levers, we have little leverage left over those poor HBOR levers that we're trying to help both exporters and some other institutions. However, when we see that the Croatian National Bank or what I say the bank of banks does not do its job and does not protect the future of the Republic of Croatia and the challenges of this time that are coming to us, and that it does not predict what will happen to Swiss then we must set up this topic for both this and this speaker. In view of Article 7 or in fact Article 21 relating to loans and guarantees for acquisition of shares. So we know in Croatia how shares were acquired. He's giving the stock under collateral, and here you come to the company without anything you've put aside, and that's how it worked out, I'd say half of Croatia. But it is evident that many companies have failed precisely because some have drawn money and have not watched the future because they knew that they are not responding to their own assets. The same is true when we look at article 28 or Article 70. The CNB and the decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit is also important, but in my view it is very important to Article 207 of the early intervention, we all know how the bank rocked in the 1990s and how it was enough to just study the text in some newspapers and when someone went to the bank and in one or two or the longest week withdraws about 30% of the savings stakes, so I believe in this test that no bank today will remain alive in the Republic of Croatia. But I'll talk about the stress test later. In addition, by looking at the implementation and purpose of the National Banks, in accordance with Article 194 of Financial Stability. Well, financial stability is important, but it is also important to the financial stability of our citizens, especially those who have raised loans in Swiss. Looking at secured deposits, we know in Croatia that deposits are secured up to 100,000 euros, but it was said just now that those with over 100,000 euros will be eligible. We know that it will fit, but this was a European regulation to bring ourselves into line with 100,000 euros of secured savings. Just now, Mr Linic was talking about the split of savings and who allowed the failure of certain banks to split the savings stakes and then the DAB had to pay a lot more than it was at the beginning because we know because of the splitting of the savings stakes that it had certainly caused great damage. I'm asking the question here today who was responsible for it, and I'm going to tell you right now. The length of bankruptcy, the bankruptcy of the City Bank for 15 years, and we have to help to bankruptcy, and if someone goes into bankruptcy, that bankruptcy ends much faster, and we should have done it with this law, I would say retroactively that the bankruptcy of both the City Bank and others finally ends. Therefore, there is no reason to play with these individual bankruptcys. What we've welcomed is an amendment that you've referred to as craftsmen. That's what we talked about especially when we were talking about the O.P.G.s. As a club, we were against the fact that those with higher amounts than a million kunas who might have directed themselves for luxury, who focused on other investments and weren't for buying the first say housing unit there shouldn't have been so socially sensitive and there shouldn't have helped them, but we immediately pointed out that it had to help the OPGs, farmers who were in a difficult situation, I would say from the mass of problems relating to our agricultural policy in particular. Now, something about the stress of a bank test that pointed out that mothers of certain mothers have problems and we know when mothers have problems getting their frustrations and problems right away to their daughters. Now that we see in Croatia that PBZ has received the best rating then we can congratulate them, but surely to help all Croatian banks experience one stress test because we see what happened in America with mortgage loans, we see how this crisis has spread to Europe as well. And seeing in Croatia what has been happening in the past years that our businesses are failing, the population when we look at Swiss for 20% of the unpaid loans then surely we feel that the crisis will slowly affect the banks. Therefore, there was a need to be fenced from this and from the recovery of the banks themselves, but also by taking care of our savings, especially these 100,000 euros, and there was well before Mr. Linic and Mr. Maric spoke about DAB related to the insurance of savings roles is certain that insurance and recovery should be separated. That's what one of the priorities is. Looking also at the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies then we can say that control of the CNB mechanisms, HANFA certainly must arrange I would say a better job because we often see through investment funds that the balance sheets of banks are cleaned up. We also felt that we were afraid of what would happen in the future especially with some funds in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, stronger control, stronger responsibility and this will certainly improve the climate itself, I would say in Croatia as well as in investors in the Republic of Croatia. Because we expected a lot from entering the EU, not only to send us directives, but rather to receive some capital, not those speculative capital, but capital that will very much help to make what is also a topic today, and to strengthen the capital market. We expected capital not only to be in the financial sector, the trading sector, but we expected to be part of the capital and in production, and in greenfield investments, but when we look at our Strategic Investments Act that it didn't live, that we don't have strategic investors then we wonder if this law was good, whether the government made any good moves or not. But by looking at the crisis then we can see that the world is recovering, and the Republic of Croatia is increasingly sinking, the capital market is increasingly sinking, and it feels in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, the HDSSB cannot accept first of all this article, which I was talking about, is the responsibility for the damages of Article 3, 2 and 5, which is the first to distract us. If there is no responsibility then there is no desire and desire, and anyone who does his job must respond as we respond to the elections, as individual directors and managers suit their businesses. So there's no reason for the governor, but also for his advice and people who are competent not to answer exactly for the damage done, and we had a governor, and we had people in the CNB who did huge damages, like we had bankers who were connected to ownership, with certain companies that drew up banks. Unfortunately, the state has been badly damaged in these affairs, but we also haven't recovered those, we haven't hit those who have just mastered the good part of Croatia with the collaterals of certain shares, and today we are white as we discuss here because they are the ones who decide, they are the ones who manage, and the risks have not had any. Therefore, around this first part we will very much be restrained, some of these things in particular this amendment we will support if we want our OPGs, our farmers to get the chance we want and that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to repay credit today because they may be able to sell their property, and their credit is in Swiss so that they can return it completely to this course. Is what we expect and what was proposed here in the Parliament and on individual committees to do within three months of both the CNB and the business banks, but also the government together with the loan users find and resolve this issue is the delay causing damage. I'm sure the banks are silent, I've felt it from both Bohaček and some others. No one has ever remained in debt to the banks, so I'm sure neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia, either this or the next, is going to matter to me, but the worst part is that it's being paid out of the budget. Therefore, we need to take good care of every June as we have failed to resuscitate certain banks, crinkling... and what I've listed, so I'm also afraid that we're going to have about this failure and perhaps we should already go with those proposals that are somehow a compromise, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter or a third, a third, a third, a third, and that's where I think of those socially endangered families that can't serve their obligations. Is it important for the banks to clean their portfolio, to keep their stress tests as good as possible, because that means trust and security. And we saw in Croatia because of their small volume and small Passives that very quickly with several inscriptions can rock the bank, so I would say and tear down the bank if someone decides. So we need to be careful, the banking system is sensitive, the capital is sensitive and it's never enough, we need to be careful if these t-shirts can not only influence the complaint of the Republic of Croatia but also withdraw capital from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98615	Thank you. We will now hear the replica of the respected representative of Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98616	Thank you, Vice President. You said that in your debate that citizens are in trouble, you instructed a certain example of credit in Swiss, the economy has been Croatian for 6 years in recession, and the banks are still the most profitable industry in Croatia. But you also said that the mothers' banks will also transfer part of their problems to daughters, among other things, who are located and are operating in Croatia. So these six years of financial crises have resulted in more than 17 billion kuna profits in Croatia. At the same time, the Croatian economy has been in deep recession for 6 years. The largest part of this gain refers to the two largest banks, so in Privredna and Zagrebačka banka and so on while the daughters' banks in Croatia were doing extremely well, unlike them, the Banks of the Queen in Italy, so Unicredito and Intesa San Paulo did business in the post-crisis period, so I'm talking about 2009, 2010 with losses. So the daughters positive, mothers in the home countries negative. And you're certainly right that the daughters' banks will have to participate to a greater or lesser extent in the recovery of the credit group. So the banks will have to begin to share the fate of their mothers' daughters, and of course the banks will have to finally begin to share the fate of both citizens and the economy. Here in this particular case I am talking about citizens and the economy of Croatia. So, the fact is that it will have to finally be realized that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98617	The replica matches the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98618	Thank you very much. My colleagues would eventually agree with you, without a good economy there are no good banks as well as a potent population who can service their obligations. But what we feel in Slavonia and Baranja is that credit is becoming less and less high, that people no longer have the potential to borrow, and we simply feel there will be no investment because there is no credit potential. Therefore, especially for these areas, we should also provide guarantee funds and provide the policy that we can provide. But when you talk about mothers and daughters, a part of the crisis is always transferred, and the daughter will always feel what is happening in the mother or withdraw some of the deposit. But what's much worse RH, and it feels like Swiss. If twenty percent of the portfolio in Switzerland is not chargeable today or in the risk group of portfolios, then you can see that this crisis is being felt, we remember well what was said in 2008 that there is no crisis in Croatia and then that we are a little bit in bananas. Well, she felt a lot of crisis in 2008 but the crisis has not been overrun by banks so far. But it is slowly felt by the population's portfolio but also by the economy that this crisis is being overrun. But what is evident is that these banks did not look at the interest of the economy and develop it, but we know what they invested in, took good collaterals with high yields, and that is why the banks are queens, i.e. mothers financed and placed funds here in the Republic of Croatia. But now there's an inversion going on, and I'm afraid on the first day when foreign banks start pulling and pulling out their profits like we almost had an example of INA the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98619	On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Goran Maric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with an associate, esteemed colleague and colleague. The deputy minister said he hopes to be unanimously supported by these three draft laws. So who wouldn't support something that's good, who wouldn't support something that would get something that would be better than it's existing. Well you shouldn't even be perfect, let's just better... But unfortunately these solutions are not good and I can't fix the amendments, I'd be happy if I could fix it if we could vote for it, unfortunately I can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if there's anything we can do without missing. I don't need to give an answer. I'll give my colleagues an answer. You spoke of irresponsibility, powers and responsibilities, that the CNB has no responsibility for failures, failures and ignorance does not exclude responsibility. And most often, failures are often due to ignorance but ignorance does not exclude responsibility. The greatest danger to society is to believe that you can exist without responsibility, only exist, and to do that is already a complete fall from human being, it is already a complete fall from human nature. These bill proposals were wrong in the procedure. Imagine a public debate where no one answered. Isn't that a warning sign already? Such important laws govern the most subtle part of economic life and that no one has reported in the debate. So how's it gonna happen when it lasted for 15 days, if someone caught a cold, he couldn't take part in it. So fast, so much so that it's only legally respected, it's published on the Ministry's website and it's written except for those who were in the task force that no one participated in the public debate. And in one law there is only one day of amendment, it is the amendment of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So should we stress the importance of the financial sector, the blood flow of economic life which is for us the artery of the body, which is the circulation in us that is the banking system and the financial sector in economic and economic life? And the bank is a mediator amongst those who create and have surpluses and then put into the bank to worry about who needs to be judged and who needs to be given to someone for new projects that need money. You mentioned, of course for such placements they need and collateral. The most insecure collateral is the stock. The same security assessments were carried out by the CNB for shares of companies which had failed and for properties that had three times the value of the loan granted. The life of bankers and the banking system doesn't mirror real life. The banking system of the population and the economy are connected vessels. And it's impossible that one body, one... healthy and others in huge trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it can't be, it's an unnatural state when they're connected. Therefore, the financial sector depends on the economic sector and the population. And if right now it's only healthy one thing it's just a state of mind, it can't be a long-term sustainable state. Therefore, no one should again be interested in the banking sector to heal the economic and economic sectors and the population. Because unpleasant experiences follow us out of it but not all examples should be generalized and not every bank and every banker and every man working in the bank should be observed in the same way. The truth is that individuals have contributed to making pictures of them. But as there are in every segment of both good and bad experts and non-professionals and surgeons whom no patient has survived, there are also such, unfortunately, and is tried by some if you follow. Individuals from the banking world have blackened their cheeks. Let's remember the Rijeka Bank as it failed for 1 kuna sold. The individual played with derivatives, soaps, manipulations. He put the entire bank at risk for producing financial products because they turned the commercial bank into a casino, into speculation. Who has to recognize it first, who has to see it? Every day she gets the CNB report because she's not just monetary authority, she's also a regulatory body. And when a person from the National Bank informed the governor that something was going on at the Rijeka Bank that was going to ruin the bank gets fired and ended up abroad, I think he's in Australia today. That's how those who warn not to do it end up. And security, the entire balance sheet of banks rests and is based on just one word of trust and we can't, we can criticize all negative phenomena, but we can't do anything that will throw trust in the banking system. And I don't agree with those who say that he doesn't care that the bank fails. It's something terrible when it happens, it can't happen. That's why I often talk about the role of regulators because it's too late when the bank fails, then it increases uncertainty, reduces trust, and then the risk is much, much greater. The CNB has powers that no one has, and responsibility has absolutely nothing. Is that possible? Let them give me one responsibility, let me be told one responsibility under this bill, and they have powers where they shouldn't have. If the regulatory authority is and monitors that nothing should happen unforeseeable and bad, as the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for public order and peace and if something unnatural occurs, they must react. This CNB must react, not because of the failure, to fail or resuscitate the bank, and then the monetary authority itself and the regulatory body is the main one in the recovery process. The law should forbid it, not allow it. That should only be prohibited. There's nothing monetary authority, monetary power to do in a recovery process, there's nothing HANFA out there to look for, there's no argument there from that idea. How can such a solution come to one’s mind? When we talk about the procedure itself, a colleague spoke earlier, in an emergency procedure such laws should never go. It should never last 15 days of public debate and all the directives to which a certain draft law is called should be attached and translated to see exactly what is what is the obligation, and what is the excuse for a certain solution because it is necessary for everyone, not just as he told his colleague Vuljanic to those who do not need it. But there's never that. How is it possible that you still and I will keep saying that you can't assess the situation and the basic issues, there's not a word about the assessment of the situation. Where it's inside, what state the financial sector is in. We're looking for an amendment to the Swiss franc, and there's no word on the Swiss franc. How did it happen, whose failure... which is the cause of the problem, how will solve the problem. Not to mention the assessment of the funds needed to enforce the law. Chapter 3 shall not stand in the draft law. What assessment of the resources needed for the bill? If we are to comply with the laws, then there must be an assessment of the fiscal effects of certain laws. There's no such thing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We always repeat the same mistakes, that the CNB will worry about the reputation of the relevant expertise. What does that mean? Well, reputationd dead people are bankers with credit rating 3a some banks in America died. First, first. This is the reputation that has brought about the biggest avalanche of financial crises in the world. That's the reputation. Will such a reputation remain undefined? It says appropriate expertise. If we're going to level again with some professional schools where, excuse the expression, but it can only fall on the stairs eventually when it's slippery and on the exam almost by no means. So equalize it with real knowledge, but we will, we keep it in laws. It says here that no bonus will be paid for a credit institution that has come into bankruptcy, the promised bonus. What about the bonuses paid? He got paid two days ago a bonus and the bank went bankrupt tomorrow. What about them? That's not what we're interested in. Responsible people should be interested, cancel all actions that can be annulled and retroactively compensate for the damage. About the amendment to determine the course of purpose, it's a truly unique case. So does anyone know what class is? The ratio of the value of the domestic currency to the other currency, and we determine, the Government determines the course and we should bless that exchange rate for one currency by purpose. I have not heard of such a solution with all the professional and scientific literature so far, and that by law, if we want to solve the problem why did you not suggest that the Croatian National Bank must fix the course for so much and so much and then there is no purpose, then for all five, six, seven, it is not a problem. But that the government determines the course, the law orders credit institutions to apply this rate only for the purpose only. I'm sorry, but for a solution like that, I can never raise my hand. It's against the profession, against reason, against nature, against credit institutions, against directly against credit institutions, and it's known who determines bankruptcy. We talked a lot about them, but only for the final. Bankers can't say that the CNB is responsible for a lot of things, but we can do it here. Banks have excess liquidity. They boast, the Croatian National Bank boasts they have excess liquidity. They don't have any extra liquidity. We have a lack of economic activity. If we had an economic growth of 4 and a half percent, then this same situation would have a liquidity deficit. We also have a lack of activity, not excessive liquidity. However, the CNB treats the banks in Croatia with machete. It is prescribed that capital adequateness is significantly higher at the rate than in other EU Member States. Mandatory reserve rates increase significantly 12% in EU member states 1%. This directly collects credit placements in Croatia And then it endangers both the economy and the citizens and the whole country. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98621	We have a single replica reported, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98622	Thank you very much. Namely, at the beginning of your debate... responsibilities and powers or about ignorance and the excess of knowledge I would say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when we look at the National Bank and we look at this article then we can say often by looking at the actions of the CNB that this very use of knowledge was not for the purpose of our Croatian economy going forward, but in the interest of foreign banks. Therefore, it was the use of knowledge for other people's purposes. Well, I wonder if that knowledge just helped the citizens, the economy of the Republic of Croatia? It's not. Because just before you went through your discussion, you managed to figure out that the economy and the banks were connected vessels. Yes, but if the CNB works and the government works. And we have a situation that both the economy and the population are exhausted, that they cannot serve their obligations, and banks are operating with significant profits. You also mentioned in your discussion that you were being tried by surgeons. And you can't now, Governor, if this law is passed? Therefore, article 325 per se is disputed for me, and just before you said nice as it was in America,... Yeah, responsibility can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, what a country we are. But looking at the activity and passiveness of Croatian banks, looking just before you said excess activity or lack of activity. We have extra passports, and there will be a higher level of liquidity of banks, because the credit opportunities of our citizens and the population are limited and unfortunately by the forecast and the macro economists will be getting smaller. It is therefore the deadline for us to focus on the Croatian National Bank, but also on the banks in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular on giving HBOR a chance, through funds and risk capital funds to try to recover that part of the economy that we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98623	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98624	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, the days have come to at least talk about it. I remember in 2008 the second month when I first warned about the failures of the regulatory body. Since then, both the Rijeka Bank and the Credo Bank and the Center Bank have happened, no one has responded. The administrations in some more banks have been replaced... The bank and no one answered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you know what? One of the verses of Tino Ujević comes to mind, saying, "There will remain a trail of every act, and there will be an echo of every word in the heart of a brother, in the son's ear, and there will be a mark of every act." He won't be able to cover what they've been doing for years, and I hope someone will someday be held accountable. Banks, not all banks have speculated, but the Croatian National Bank is equally treating all banks and those that have speculated and those that are not and in the case of the Swiss franc. That's where we make mistakes when we generalize. Someone was producing derivatives, someone was really in charge of abroad. And what about the Croatian National Bank? They are distracted by their work to finance the Croatian economy. So do you see what... It's working, and we're working the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rules so that they have to set aside the reserve in kunas 12%, in foreign exchanges 17% to raise, banks have no income, and then, of course, more expensive funds. And of course no one's gonna take it. Who works directly against interest and banks and... Because if there's no credit, then the banks are in danger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through all the bankruptcy deals, they don't get to write off part of the debt they have to write off. It's not a tax-recognized expense. Well, that's inadmissible! But that's why I say there's going to be a trail of every act left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98625	On behalf of the SDP club will be spoken by distinguished colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98626	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. These three legislative proposals that we are discussing together this afternoon are very closely connected and it is good to discuss them unitedly. Namely, their essence is to integrate several Directives of the European Parliament and of the European Council. It is primarily about Directive 2014/49, then Directive 2014/51 and Directive 2014/59 in the applicable Credit Institutions, Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and the Capital Market, all with a view to establishing, on the one hand, a quality legislative framework for an early enough and fast enough recovery of credit institutions and investment firms that are failing or likely to fail at a certain time, and on the other hand, to establish one quality deposit insurance system. In one word, the financial crisis has made sense of the need to prevent as much as possible the negative impact of credit institutions that are failing both on the economic and financial systems of EU member states because we are all closely connected and the problems of one member are necessarily being spilled across the borders of all members. What obligations do these legal proposals make to credit institutions? Each credit institution was obliged to draw up and provide the CNB with a recovery plan setting out concrete measures to improve its financial situation in the event of a serious financial disturbance, with a special emphasis on the measures that the management of the credit institution must prepare for early intervention, i.e. for rapid action in the event of threatening difficulties. In the case of a credit group, all details of mutual financial support shall be arranged by means of an agreement between the parent credit institution and its subsidiaries. Whether through the granting of credit or loan, whether through the issuing of a guarantee, the provision of guarantees, the establishment of publishing rights, the transfer of ownership rights over property or through a combination of any of the following means, all with a view to stopping further deterioration of the financial status of a member of the group. I tried to illustrate through my colleague Bubal's replica what it would actually look like. Therefore, the banks of daughters operating in Croatia will have to participate in the recovery of credit groups whose members are members. In the proposal of the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions, the CNB as the competent regulator has the power to take appropriate measures, from requesting an amendment to the business strategy, the reorganisation of the credit institution, the convocation of the main assembly, to the resolution of the senior management of the credit institution and the appointment of a special administration that takes over in fact all functions and administrations and the supervisory board. All these regulatory measures shall be taken to ensure that the financial situation in the credit institution does not reach the point where nothing other than the initiation of the recovery procedure can be taken. Of course the recovery is in motion if she's in the public interest. If there is no public interest in launching the recovery, then, of course, the bankruptcy procedure must be initiated. The difference between the recovery and the bankruptcy of the credit institution has therefore been clearly underlined here. Therefore, only in the case of public interest, and the public interest is to protect public funds, protect secured deposits and prevent the spread of harmful consequences to the country's financial system. In the proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions, it is specified who the resolution bodies are. Therefore, the CNB is responsible for credit institutions and the HANFA for investment firms by directly participating the DAB in the process of accepting or rejecting the Sanitary Procedure. The Head of the Governing Council of the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation is the finance minister and the DAB is involved just for the sake of the possible need to secure part of the recovery funds from the state budget. The purpose of the resolution is to ensure that the costs of the recovery of the credit institution are borne as little as possible by the taxpayers, i.e. the burden of the recovery falls primarily on the back of shareholders and creditors of the credit institution. The rescue funding trail establishes a resolution fund managed by the DAB. In doing so, it is necessary to distinguish this fund from the Deposit Insurance Fund from the state to how much we know 100,000 euros. The Funds of the Credit Institutions Rehabilitation Fund provide once a year for all institutions that have been authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia in dynamics, which will ensure that by the end of 2024, so in the next 10 years, the fund will have an amount of 1% of the amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions. Therefore, although the objective of the resolution is that the cost of recovery does not fall on the burden of taxpayers, it will still not be possible to avoid it because it is the obligation, therefore, that this obligation to allocate 1% of banks to the resolution fund will increase the cost of banks and, of course, banks will try to transfer that cost to loan users. As regards the bankruptcy of credit institutions in the draft law, it is precisely said that the proposal to open a bankruptcy proceedings against a credit institution can only be submitted by the CNB with regard to bankruptcy for formal reasons, and we know that the first formal reason to launch a bankruptcy is that the assets of a credit institution are less than its liabilities while the second credit institution is unable to fulfil its obligations. Therefore, with these formal bankruptcy reasons, two more conditions must be met. The first is that the recovery plan established that the recovery of a specific credit institution is not in the public interest and the second is if the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks in this case has decided that there are no conditions for the implementation of the recovery of a credit institution. When it comes to the bankruptcy of credit institutions, it is proposed to supplement the higher bankruptcy lines of the DAB's specific demand on the basis of secured deposits to enter the higher payment order, while the claims of natural persons and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs crossing the amount secured by the state, so the amount of 100 thousand euros is transferred to the fourth higher payment order. There are also certain changes in the forced liquidation that are carried out if the recovery is not in the public interest and there are no conditions for the initiation of bankruptcy, and there is no regular winding-up since the Croatian National Bank has found as a resolution body that this would be harmful to creditors of the credit institution. Therefore, the liquidator shall, within 15 days with the possibility of extending that period for an additional 15 days, make an assessment of the feasibility of the liquidation, so that if the liquidation is found to be ineligible, the liquidator must submit a natural proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy. Finally, but very important mention should be made of the Government's amendment to the proposal of the Credit Institutions Act, which extends the model of freezing the Swiss franc rate at the level of 6.39 kuna for francs to the credits of natural persons who carry out their free professions, to the credits of craftsmen, to the credits of individuals and family farms. So, after the addition of the Consumer Credit Act, the debtors were protected and the citizens were now added to the Credit Institutions Act the same level of protection provided to this group of users that I mentioned. The SDP club will support these three legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98627	And on behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club, we will support all three bill proposals, amendments to the law. It's a lot of course said in these discussions, and of course we at the HNS Club agree, in part we disagree. But what is crucial in this position, and especially the emphasis is absolutely today on amending the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and the Law amending the Law on Credit Institutions. We are discussing and discussing that 19 billion Republic of Croatia had to bring budgets, the resources of citizens into the recovery of banks in the 1990s to save the banking system. The fact is also that since 2000, with the help of DAB and savings security, we have stabilised what is important to the citizens and given the security of the message that the state is behind their savings in any bank it chooses, and now these amounts have reached the value of 100,000 euros, which is somewhere around 170 billion kuna that has been secured in this way. A total of around 296 billion deposits in credit institutions. So these are extremely, extremely large amounts when we discuss banks, credit institutions because we had 29 banks in Croatia, one savings and one residential savings bank, these are credit institutions. So these are the funds of citizens who are taking back citizens for credit and entrepreneurship. Therefore, when we talk about banks and the stability of the banking system, then we are not just talking about owners and equity and investment that is somewhere around 57 billion kuna, much more of the funds that banks place both intent and desire to place it from citizens and of course entrepreneurs. And this is the key to the sensitivity of this problem, the sensitivity of the debate with the right of every parliamentary representative or club to discuss it in the way it is considered adequate, but this is why this is a sensitive topic of whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are saving in our banks, very much, means 19 billion of them have given to the resolution of these banks in the 1990s and what is then important in the crisis in 2007 and 2008 respectively, and further has not touched our banking system by good work because these banks were not related to what happened in America, and then in Europe a good deed, or one bank had already cleaned it before it came to the tsunami that was in 2008-2009. On the other hand, with the strict very conservative measures of the Croatian National Bank which exist today and regulate and make sure that this does not happen. So we're talking about the Croatian National Bank and new powers, whether it's technically a good combination of DAB, both the CNB and the HANFA in which way, on this issue, I'm sure I can say that there are always options and possibilities to solve it in A, B or C way. The government has proposed the way in which it considers it to be the most impoverished especially in a situation where the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation has no capacity nor the knowledge needed to do so, so it is good that it is the Croatian National Bank which, unfortunately, had experience following and controlling the work of other banks. Also, what is important to note when we are discussing these laws and stability is the financial system, so our neighbours of Slovenians who were in the euro zone last year had to increase their country's public debt by slightly less than 60% to 80% of gross products because they had to resuscitate the banks from 3 billion euros. So, when we are discussing this bill of law in which budgeting or budgeting or citizens who are paying and entrepreneurs in the RS budget then we are talking about something that owners or banks will eventually rescind what might happen in their imbalances if the CNB does not notice it, and I do not believe that it will not detect anything at all in time. On the other hand, we have last year's intervention of the Slovenian state with 3 billion euros in saving the banking system and in fact secured deposits and economies, of course related to the banking system. Therefore, the technical part whether or not to go in this way or to amend certain or law or amendments to parts of the law is always a matter of discussion. only of course the Government and the ruling coalition believes that at this moment this bill is necessary and adequate and can respond to both the time and the challenge and the needs of our financial system at all. Also mentioned to HANFA in the debate, HANFA has learned a lot from experience and by managing and regulating. Will some new employees, experts in certain segments have to exist to further strengthen this law and its implementation? Yeah. However, this should also be the case if, in a different way, the technical solution to the relationship between DAB and HANFA and CNB is, therefore, the technical part on certain knowledge and skills that are additionally necessary would be in any case. It's not worse to say or mention when we talk about our financial system, when we talk about laws as they apply, as I said these 35 particularly credit institutions, that their assets are 407 billion kuna and that's extremely large and good, and that savings is in all credit institutions, I'm going to repeat another time, 296 billion kuna. And every time we talk, I want to point out on behalf of the HNS Club that banks were not only the banks owners of the daughter's bank, whether domestic entrepreneurs or certain companies, banks are part of the citizens' savings, citizens have some income from the interest they receive. And whatever certain bank moves are when we talk about Swiss people who are current or some other moves were not adequate, they may not have been correct, so we have done and amended the laws and the Consumer Credit Act, and therefore there is a new regulation that is extremely relevant to consumer protection, better said citizens. These banks with such supervision have the right to seek their own profit space also because they are private companies mostly and have the right to search for space in profit, as our citizens ask for space to earn if they have certain savings. It is also certain that the stability of our banking system and the profits that are often discussed in Croatia's banks are below the EU average. So back to the average capital of some kind of ROE, that's one of those elements that shows how well banks work is 3.5% in Croatian banks in Europe is about 10. There are countries in the Czech Republic, Poland where it's above 10%. Therefore, Croatian banks are doing what is crucially stable. These bill proposals, in particular on the recovery and modification of the Credit Institutions Act, provide both procedures and skills and knowledge that possible new situations that could happen, not possibly because of what is happening in the Croatian market and capital and finance, are more influenced by perhaps certain European or world-wide tsunamis that may always happen and are very difficult to predict, only ensuring that we can quickly and simply ensure that we do not pay out of the budget, that the bankers themselves and that, together with the EU and the European Central Bank that controls this well, we keep it stable. So peace and stability of finance and they would say and peace in the world is crucial that then our economy can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98629	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at 9.30, we will begin the debate on the report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the court for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98630	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 784; The debate on the text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, shall give the following conclusion: "To reverse the action of the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 157 and of the amendment 2. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia, on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, have a particularly justified reason.". Please vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 25 abstentions, 3 votes against the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of Deputy Deputy Minister of Finance Igor Radjenovic to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment No. Article 141
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment No. One is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98632	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. in Article 145.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98633	And we accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98634	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3. in Article 153.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98635	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-04-0.u98636	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 79 votes in favour, 31 abstentions and nothing against votes passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted. In line with the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take all legal measures from its department together with the Croatian National Bank and the relevant authorities of the state administration to prevent the illegal activities of foreign legal persons (Raiffeisen banks, Raiff Islands banks from Raiffes' group) in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who have entered the rights of the property of Croatian citizens and to take all measures to protect Croatian citizens and to prevent the implementation of activities on real estate and operations and to endanger the existence of credit debtors. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the Opinion did not receive the necessary majority, 42 votes for, 5 abstentions and 62 votes against. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, good morning, welcome. We will continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the established agenda. This morning, according to the agreement: - Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of Judgment for 2013; Report was delivered by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. That's the report you received. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received a report from the Committee at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia want to give an opening statement? Yeah. Here's the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Branko Hrvatin. Here you go.
