ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105981	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. Boro Grubisic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am looking for a word and a break of 10 minutes and in connection with the latest events or not happening at the Immunological Institute of Zagreb, which we know is a matter, but here we now see that there is just one longer break in connection, so Vision Croatic's initiatives and initiatives to extend production in the Immunological Institute, so to warn the public Croatian about these things I am looking for a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105983	Now, we've been looking for events, and now we're looking for a break. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105984	Today is the 8th of May, 8th of May, Victory Day, Europe Day, and today, Stepinac was born, the funeral of Tito, so let me say two sentences on the occasion of Europe Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105985	Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105986	Madam Vice President, for the same reasons as my colleague Grubisic for the Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105987	I'm setting a break until 9.44. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105989	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Secondly, a few months ago, I was looking for a break in connection with the Immunological Institute of Zagreb, since as citizens of Croatia and as Croats, we are all interested in the survival of the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. Namely, this break lasted 10 minutes, but those responsible in the executive authority of the Republic of Croatia are making much bigger breaks that are counted in days or months when deciding on the fate of the Immunological Institute of Zagreb, about the fate of the initiative, etc. The commanding company Vision Croatica and the fate of workers of the Immunological Institute Zagreb and of production at the Immunological Institute Zagreb. In fact, it is also known that DUUDI (State Office for State Property Management) that CERRP (Restructure and Sales Centre) has therefore made a decision, made the opinion that Vision Croata has met all the conditions, but there is still no government decision, although very often the government consults a telephone. So no one lives, neither the Prime Minister nor the ministers in Australia, so I don't know how to meet, and I don't know how long it takes. So, we all live in Croatia and there can be a government meeting on this matter or put into the agenda of the government's sessions whenever you want. Despite all the conditions met, despite the payment that came neatly from Vision Croatica, so of the 15 thousand people who paid not only people but also companies and other entities in the state of Croatia who paid at the expense of Vision Croatica for the purchase of the Immunological Institute Zagreb still has no decision. What does that make, what does it say? So you can see for yourself that in the media, and among the citizens, the debate and the lifestyle that Vision Croata led and held in the collection of 100 million kuna, which would, of course, continue to take place. And I am convinced that this initiative will collect more than 100 million in order for the Immunological Institute to move to new premises and that this only investor who appeared in the competition, who meets the conditions of the competition, would save together with the Croatian people the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. In addition, we have a memo here saying that the Immunological Institute has filed a new request for HALMED, i.e. the Croatian Medicines Agency to come to the control of the Immunological Institute of Zagreb because the conditions have been made, because workers and the Immunological Institute have made a lot of efforts to get what was missing in order to get a license to produce vaccines of viral, bacterial, blood products so that the Croatian Medicines Agency is now under control and to give new approval for production in order for workers to get paid and for the production to start. Unfortunately, the news is from HALMED that he will come so officially to watch in the first half of June, around St. Ante. And when he gets there, he's gonna have to wait a month or two days, so the results of that surveillance, and then at the time of the annual vacations, he's gonna be approved, he's gonna, I don't know, positive or negative for continuing production to the Immunological Team. It's too late! Immunologically, then, cannot be organised and can't go into new production, thus making their wages come true and making some small investments possible for them to patch up. I want to, I demand that this HALMED, if it has already launched an initiative to get under control, is not far away from the Croatian Medicines Agency and the Immunological Institute, so it can be on foot and on the tram, I don't have to come either. Is it necessary to wait for the first half of the 6th month for the supervision of the Immunological Institute by the Croatian Medicines Agency? You don't have to! Well, we already have to work once to say expeditively, specifically in situations like this where everyone is together, and I'm convinced you from the position, and we from the opposition want to save the Immunological Institute, we have no reason to be political about it, to be guided by politics. This is why I call here on the public and the Croatian government to make a final decision on the ownership of Vision Croatica as the only and main investor supported by the Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors, which is supported by the Croatian people and I call on the Croatian Medicines Agency to carry out as requested by the Immunological Institute Zagreb supervision hastily to issue a solution for further production of viral, bacterial vaccines as well as blood preparations. Here was the reason for the request for a break to express these views and to tell both the Government and HALMED to act in terms of speeding up the procedure so that Vision Croatica would work on further collection of 100 million kunas which will certainly be successfully collected by Croatian citizens to be the owner of the Croatian people to remain the owner of the Immunological Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105990	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105991	Dear Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament today is the 8th of May, today is the day of victory, today is the day of Europe, the day of Europe, the day of good, but on today Europe is to be freed. Today is also the day of the release of the City of Zagreb, thank you, Madam Vice President, today as I said in 1898 on today's day Stepinac, today is a later burial of Tito. They were born, empires failed, but nothing will mark civilization as the end of World War II, and in so much victory over Nazism is surely one of the greatest or greatest victories I would say civilizations. Why? Because first of all, an absolute evil has been defeated and because a new world has begun to be created, whose values we too today are being inherited. And then there is the question of what place it was, as it is today in this small Croatia. I say it was big and today I am really glad that in Pazin and the president of the state and the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. It also claims that few European countries had as much authentic resistance as it did in these areas, and few European countries had their own armed forces that fought against Nazism, and as few European countries did, I think of those who were enslaved to themselves and few European countries that were occupied and that at the head of this movement was the person who respected the whole world, I think of Josip Broz Tito. The People's Liberation Movement in then-Yugoslavia was called the State, which means that in Croatia, perhaps most of all, it was more operational, it was far more successful than in one great France, and certainly our NOP's contribution was not less, for example. The French one. Exactly a lot happened after World War II, so that there would be no dilemma, in ex Yugoslavia, there was an Istrian exodus, there was a Bleiburg, there were crossroads, collectiveizations, naked island, but when it stopped at the ball, we can also say that few countries were more social than the one we were living back then. The contribution of the NOP is that Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, islands today in Croatia, I said not once after this pay phone, that after the 47th or 54th somewhere around 140 thousand people opted Italy's journey from Istrian space alone. However, regardless of everything like the Homeland War and the anti-fascist ones of Croatia, I am convinced that if Croatia were to set itself right, the nation of either movement would benefit greatly because the world respects it and therefore let us not part with what the world respects and exists. I'm saying that among other things and because in the fifth month, it's like we're all losing our minds. In one way, Jasenovac is marked, I, in another way, experience from the Lord Bleiburg, you in another way from me the Day of Victory but what I find incomprehensible is that two hills, so to speak the Pantovčak and this here or gentlemen across the street experience not knowing the Storm or the Vukovar eppeia in two completely perverse ways. And I'm asking myself questions about who's in the interest of who might be in the interest of this division? And finally, they would never tell anyone again, and let no one abuse that concept of anti-fascism, because it can't be those who publicly pretend to be private, who are rich overnight in state, who are introducing censorship of the media, who are handling nepotism and can't be anyone but their employees and that I don't list everything else. So never again, to anyone else, any war, and it's really good that they're in Pazin today and put their heads together both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105992	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105993	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I don't know which times in the past year we've been talking about the Immunological Institute, and probably the Immunological Institute will become synonym about the way this government works and works. Because if the institutions of the government, which this government has appointed and set up, gave the green light to the future of the Immunological Institute, then the question arises why the Government has not politically executed it. There are two reasons, either the Immunological Institute saves for someone or simply has no political courage to make some decisions. When you look at the qualification structure of people working in the Immunological Institute, then it is certainly a company that should be a given example in a certain way so that companies in Croatia should look in the future and what the Croatian economy should lean on. The second thing, the health minister is every day full of praise about health reform, in this health reform, the Immunological Institute is not even mentioned by chance. So these are the questions to be asked to this government, and why did this government not answer these questions? Just as we have recently crossed virtually through the report of the European Commission and the IMF where it is finally confirmed that the Croatian deficit is 18 billion and 700 million kuna, not 12.5 as this government has spoken. The government was talking and nothing to anyone. So what's six billion kuna for the Croats? Nothing. That's one little thing and why we should even argue about it. We're talking about the Immunological Institute, did this House discuss the failed monitoring of the highway, did this Parliament discuss the failure of the HPB privatisation, did this Parliament discuss the payment of the guarantee for the Chaliscan and what situation is in DEOKI today? And just for these three things, colleagues and colleagues, when you add up the money that was practically thrown into the trash can to say that because all these materials were there and ended up because they weren't worth it, with those coins, the Immunological Institute could have been put on its feet. And so we can list a series of examples. But it's very interesting that one strange recapitalisation practically by the name of one of the most important food industries in the Republic of Podravka goes undetected. And it's very interesting that the government for another company has no interest in capitalizing and keeping the management package inside, because I just think it should be contained. 'Cause look, it doesn't make sense to me that the government is practically quietly giving up its capitalization. It happened in Croatia insurance, it happens now and in Podravka. No matter what someone believes to be a strategic plan, I consider a final solution to the ownership structure of Podravka, the government should have very much kept its ownership stake at that percentage level at which it had. But that's the way it is. So we're willing to take care of some kind of project and give guarantees to some private banks on probably some kind of private line, we're willing to enter projects that we don't even know how they're going to end up with a message from this government, and it's willing to pay taxpayers' money. And the project that is definitely the Croatian public, Croatian citizens have shown this by paying Vision Croatica what they want and what they want, for which the government is not ready to allocate the money. And that is why I sincerely hope that this is the last time that we have sought a break on behalf of the club with the topic of the Immunological Institute and that the government will probably find a solution that finds a number of populist solutions that unfortunately will not bring anything good to Croatia, and the Immunological Institute would certainly bring much good to both Croatian health and Croatian citizens and employees of the Immunological Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105994	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105995	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. We haven't started the session yet, and our hands are in the air. Honorable representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105996	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not looking for a break. I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105997	For me personally?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105998	Yeah. When can I, as a proponent, get a conclusion that has been voted on on the 8th of May with the refusal of the Law on Extra charge for children?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u105999	If it's signed immediately. It's a public matter. You were there and you voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106000	But I also got the answer to wait for you to get back out of the way last week. On Wednesday, you returned from the road, however, there is still no answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106001	Who you get from when we talk like this. Please submit a request... All that you ask for is what is voiced. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] So you're going to get the conclusion and what I'm going to do now is I'm going to study to you from here on out. You'll get the conclusion according to your request if you didn't get it. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106002	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government should be hiring 1875 civil servants soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106003	What are you looking for, colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106004	On behalf of the club for 5 or 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106005	About the darkness?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106006	On the subject of hiring 1875 civil servants in order to keep everything in line with the laws, so that these processes are controlled so as not to alienate, please pause from 5 or 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106007	Okay. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106008	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Since it's about seeking a break for the HDSSB club, I'm just saying it's the last suicide of a police officer at the Slavonski Brod Police Administration, which is the fifth suicide in the last five years at the Slavonski Brod Police Administration. Given the situation, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to put some things behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106009	What did you call the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106010	The situation in the Slavonski Brod Police Administration and the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, given that Mr. Tonkovic would not be a bad listener here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106011	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106012	The agony of the Immunological Institute continues, and I would beg for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106013	Immunologically?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106014	Immunologically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106015	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106016	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break about the Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106017	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106018	Same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106019	So, a press conference of club representatives for the next half hour, first we'll give a break. It's till 9.45. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9.45. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, new topic, Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106021	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is not my intention here to hold some extraordinary press, nothing, but simply to warn the Croatian public that MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not have the opportunity to talk about important topics. And I think that after a few months of the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament talking about the Immunological Institute then we can say that this is a picture of Croatia. The Immunological Institute simply shows what happens to entrepreneurs in Croatia when they enter the plight of the administration. And every story about some reforms that have been carried out in Croatia, when it's changed to the Immunological Institute then it all falls into the water because if those reforms were implemented then someone would say it's going or it's not going. Because look, there is a major reform procedure whether the bill will be paid from the Treasury or paid from some account of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, but a far greater reform procedure in Croatia would be, in fact, that the Resord Ministry said that, the Immunological Institute needs Croatia for that reason, and that, and after so long and so long, that institution will produce these products that will be sold on the market and will be an export product. That would be the minister's move, because he's a resolute minister. There, the leaders of DUDI can give some economic assessments or assessments, but the assessment of whether the products of the Immunological Institute need Croatia or not should be said by the restoring ministry. They are citizens like the MPs in this House, the citizens have joined in their own way. Vision Croata simply showed that Croatian citizens want to participate in some processes. But how many months they've been stalling, they can't get an answer. What is this message to all investors for any job in the Republic of Croatia when they want to invest money. And I'm going to ask one more question that on behalf of the club I've asked here several times whether the Immunological Institute is being guarded for someone or if someone wants to ruin it because there's a very lucrative job of importing, all of what the Immunological Institute is producing. So these are facts that you can't escape from. Why? Because we see every day that they're trying to save dead people who unfortunately have no help. The aid can only be that they are completely restructured and functioning in a different way, but when you look at the great guarantees, the strong support given by such ones, then you ask yourself a question and why the state does not react in a similar or identical way when it comes to the Immunological Institute. Why is it that an institution that is not about cheap labour, which is about people who are extremely highly educated who have a very business to say so in terms of pydgre and professional why they are not given the opportunity to talk? So we all keep saying that we want Croatia to deal with high technology, not Croatia, which will be a country of cheap labour. Well, the Immunological Institute is exactly that. The Immunological Institute should practically produce and sell what the Croatian mind did, but I repeat what I said at the beginning. The Immunological Institute is the image and opportunity of this government's indecisiveness. We can list now a series of such projects that are waiting. The Immunological Institute is a picture and an opportunity not to implement reforms, debirocrats without any responsibility and without any concern that they will be punished by a staff of certain projects and practically hit a slap on all Croatian citizens who have paid as much as anyone could do the initial capital, to start it. So if you wanted to help the Immunological Institute then all these contracts would be made at the beginning of the year, so those who use the products of the Immunological Institute could make contracts with the Immunological Institute and work. To make a decision at 9 months when all their products are already ordered by someone else, is basically when someone pulls you out of the water and then squeezes you back, and you didn't take enough air to survive. I'm afraid that's how he treats the Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106022	Thank you very much. After a few terms of office in the Croatian Parliament and two terms of office, the Minister of Government will not believe you that you cannot speak in the Croatian Parliament, hold a press conference, propose the act itself to be on the agenda. But use practice and proceed freely. ... You've got him... [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] Not me. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, it is. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you very much. As long as you're throwing it away, do you think it's not worth the acts that the Croatian Democratic Community has not voted for? Please don't do that! We're going in accordance with practice, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Same subject, Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106023	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think you too realize that these breaks are the consequences of the Parliament's subordination to the government not the other way around. The parliament does not vote on the debated points because it is waiting for the government, the proposings do not get the Assembly's conclusions on voted topics. We MPs don't get answers to parliamentary questions at 4, 5, 6 months and nothing happens. When we talk about it, you call it a press conference. Immunological institute. I'll talk about the document, Mr. President, which you have also received, which the workers of the Immunological Institute have directed to both you and the Government and us to the club representatives. When the State Property Management Strategy was discussed, we warned on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club that the Immunological Institute could not be in the category of company of development importance for the Republic of Croatia, but from the strategic and it was not accepted in the Assembly. The government later launched a procedure to sell the Immunological Institute after all the catharsis that Immunologically passed. And we've been discussing this issue here in the House, looking for answers, warning, and waiting for the government's decision to be made somehow. The immunological debate, the economics sector decides, and the health resort almost shuts up about it without understanding the importance of the Immunological in terms of public health is another problem. After several months of silence and not deciding on the only offer for sale by the Government, workers of the Immunological Institute launched a procedure, a proposal, called for you and Mr. President and us to amend the State Property Management Strategy and that the Immunological from the category of firm of development in the category of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia would be subject to the adoption of a special law. Obviously, there is a problem in the government about making a sale decision through public competition. If there is this problem and there is no proposal from the Government to act differently, so by changing the strategy and putting it into the category of strategic importance, can we open this debate in the House if the Government does not propose anything. The mandated proponent of the strategy under the law is the Government. And if we make a proposal to amend the strategy, we will get the answer that we are not an authorised applicant. And now tell us what to do next? To silence the fact that Immunologically continues to experience uncertainty, that these people are working under uncertainty, or we must finally believe in the fact that the Immunologically Sacrifice is due to the import lobby and the fact that these businesses are engaged closely with some officials in Croatia. And it's very interesting that this demand for workers who are obviously burned by all experiences so far and through transactions, swindles, strange decisions of administrations and resolutional ministries, some media are calling treason, treason from the inside. Who's been publishing immunologically so far does nothing. And since the government probably knows how many times the Immunological Council has been the subject and demands of the best decision on Immunology, and that no excessive response has ever come, and in the meantime the resolution ministers have been in the Assembly several times, and they have been able to react in a way that they provide information. The questions of MPs are not answered, the written parliamentary questions are not answered in time. You call this press conferences. If this is the only way to challenge decisions, reactions and get answers to the question that bothers us, then I think we are doing good to the Croatian Assembly as well as to those who are most directly interested in the problems we are opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106024	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Lesar. I'm going to ask the government once again that, in accordance with the business deadlines, to answer the parliamentary questions she didn't give, that's where you're right, we're looking, and we're going to ask again. And as for the position on the Immunological Institute here, let me tell you again, submit a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the subject of the Immunological Institute. You're a representative club, you can do it, and then you can call the president and the government. And while there's no suggestion, I have to qualify this the way it is. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, same subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106025	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so as far as the Immunological Institute is concerned, the matter is clear. We can write, suggest whatever decision has been made Immunologically needs to be destroyed as Cartaga. Actually, who wants to, the question is, who wants to destroy the Immunological Institute? Instead of becoming a factor in the production of the vaccine, instead of becoming a factor in the production of blood products, Immunologically was not only a European and world-famous institution. Instead of what is good, what the world recognises we grow and invest everything to maintain and increase production we destroy, and here from the stage and when the representatives of the government and representatives of the majority of parliament swear to create new jobs, the sophisticated technology for which we will fight in the future. And what's the Immunological Institute? Please tell us what Pliva is today and how much she means, and what could it mean? The Immunological Institute is about to be destroyed, and it wants to destroy it because it goes to other companies in Europe on its own like it did with Pliva. So, pharmacists have fingers in it. It's a strong lobby and the government does what others want. And that's the only correct interpretation, so long as the government doesn't prove otherwise. This agony experienced by the Immunological Institute takes too long and the government sits with its hands crossed and does nothing. In fact, he's doing everything he can to keep the Immunological Institute away. It's not true, it's a big lie that there's not enough money to move the Immunological Institute to new rooms. You can have the ministry in new rooms, Zmijlovic, but you're not immune, there's no money for that. They can be spent in a variety of para-institutions, but there's no money for Immunology. 100 million kuna is for the Immunological Institute too, because maybe 100 bucks would be there, maybe even stronger, maybe they'd be on their feet. When the state doesn't know what it will or when it knows what it will do, and this time I think it knows what it will do, it doesn't pay the wages and pushes the companies they don't care about and they are very important in Croatia in bankruptcy, to failure, because in Croatia mostly except for some good examples of bankruptcy means disaster. The other day I listened to Croatian economists who have solutions for this crisis and who say everything should be sold out, the rest of INA should be sold out, sold out, sold out Immunologically, sold out Croatian highways, the share in Podravka should be sold out. The French are rounding up food production because they know it's a strategic issue, and we say we don't have to sell it all out. And you know the only thing we can't sell out? Their patents of these economists because they've probably flooded the whole world already. It's a copy of Chicago school, it's been a while. Today, even the most capitalist countries behave quite differently. And what are we doing? We simply destroy what was worth systematically. So the government is the first, primary and only culprit for this situation at the Immunological Institute because it's a company that has something to produce, a company that has a market, a company that had a market, a company that has experts, everything exists, but there's no good will. In whose interest does this government work? That's what you need to ask in whose interest he's working, whose interest is he destroying the Immunological Institute? The Immunological Institute should be a state-owned company, it should remain in the hands of the state. And if that's not going to happen it just means it's a straight sabotage, straight betrayal, and I think the government should finally speak out loud and clear what it means with the Immunology to keep the citizens clean.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u106026	Thank you very much. We've finished taking the stand of the club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109117	We're moving to the point of today's agenda. - Proposal for a law on catering, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 833. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Tourism Mr Douglas Koraca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs. It is a draft bill on catering activities, and we propose that it be adopted and contained several important newspapers and improvements in relation to the current provisions of the current law. The proposal itself retains most of the provisions and has had 8 amendments and additions, and in order to facilitate the implementation of the proposal, it is proposed to adopt a new whole text. The important newspapers proposed by this proposal are to allow representative bodies of the local self-government unit to determine and extend their working hours in their area both for certain types of catering facilities and for certain areas, parts of the city compared to the minimum working hours that are now set from 6.00 in the morning to midnight, respectively. It enables legal persons and craftsmen to provide accommodation services in housing facilities without having to re-use into business space. Since this is a quiet activity for private owners who have applied for the legalisation of their facilities, a temporary solution is given by 31 December 2016 for the provision of catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof of ownership on the ground on which the facility is located, and since a large part of the citizens are not able to obtain such permission in relation to the situation in the land books, especially in the islands. It is possible to prepare and serve drinks and drinks in which pensioners’ associations are organised for their members in club rooms, and in accordance with the practice in Austria and Germany, it also allows voluntary fire companies to prepare and serve meals, drinks and drinks in their premises up to a maximum of 4 times in a calendar year in the event of the event of the anniversary and other fire-fighting events. A central register for catering activities and services in tourism is established, which will be a public register and will include all hosts and all catering service providers. And the highest and minimum amounts of fines for individual infringements are reduced, and for frequent infringements, those who frequently repeat infringements are determined higher amounts of money. A public debate was held in the draft proposal, opinions from all bodies of the Economic and Social Council, the Assembly Committee on Legislatives, Agriculture and Tourism were drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109119	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109120	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister, I'm just going to look back at one part of what you said, and it's not basically a problem unit of local self-government about determining the working time of catering facilities. They know best, but in these catering facilities, someone has to work. Some other laws apply to the issue of work in catering facilities and there is no other law we have passed where it is made possible to redistribute working hours, related to seasonal workers, and especially in this activity there are many seasonal workers. The second thing this law should have been passed earlier because we have a season now but related to the abuse of that working time and work in catering facilities we will have a situation that seasonal workers will work 60 hours a week somewhere and 250 hours a month, then the seasonal contract will expire or the employer will tell them no more needs, the season has passed and will never be compensated for the part missing hours that should be average hours nor will they be paid as overtime work. And clearly, on this basis, the most people lose these workers who have no alternative but to work and make some money, to lose the Pension Insurance Office, to lose the Health Insurance Office, to lose the state and local self-government through tax evasion for what should be rewarded those workers. That's why I think that's where we're supposed to get more control but about collective agreements that this ministry stands up to carry out and extend the collective contract to the whole activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109121	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of Independent Representatives and counterparts Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109122	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. No matter what, I think this law should be extremely cautious. Why? First of all, because of this article, Article 24(2), but a little later. The provisions on working time we have heard are of particular importance from fellow MPs. On the other hand, clearly, it is perfectly logical that local self - administration determines for itself how long an object will work somewhere. But I've been contacted by people who have apartments by places where these famous hip-hop festivals are held. Of course it's about drug gatherings, we all know that, but that's what people at the Ministry of Tourism, the city of Pula or Rovinj just don't want to admit it, but the police are denying them. Because when they're raids they can't cover all 2, 3 or 4 thousand people. But when they're covered by 200 or 300, 198 or 299, there's always drugs. And that's just a fact. And those drug festivals, then who's funding? The Ministry of Tourism, the city of Pula, Rovinj, until yesterday... So they banned, which is fine, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the inspectors themselves who are working on it come, say, that you are right, through this form develops drug tourism. This kind of tourism has been driven out by everyone but we here on the Adriatic, especially in Istria we give in to that kind of tourism. And so my Istrians, don't be surprised that we have the first labs for that synthetic drug that the police recently found in Istria. And then don't be surprised, too, that the drugs down there are drugs and the police because you know very well that an entire anti-drug department ended up in Via Roma, Rijeka. Well, don't be surprised that that's what people do, or that they did in the Port Captain's office, communal directors, etc., etc.... I will, just to find something here to quote from this law that according to the applicable law the service located in the living room can only provide the renter as a natural person and only occasionally until the end of 2016 can the hosts registered as crafts and companies etc.. It is now proposed that these services be provided or that they can provide legal and physical persons independently of organisational form and business and housing, I stress this to the housing, given that it is a quiet activity. The government considers that this will encourage professionalisation or the opening of new companies and crafts to carry out catering activities and employment, in particular through self-employment, etc. Article 24(2) states that it is exceptional, and I have already quoted it from the reasons set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, a solution will be issued to the host on the fulfilment of the conditions for the type and category of catering facility in the living space of the hospitality facility of the type of room, apartment, studio apartment and holiday house, with a positive opinion of the competent fire protection body for those facilities located in the building whose building (gross) area is larger than 400 squares. So far, gentlemen, someone has been able to do business or could only do business in business facilities. Now from now on, they'll be able to do it in housing. And we defacto come to this law to question at least 4, 5 other laws, the Law on craftsmanship that says that a craftsman can only do business in a business facility, the Law on Cooperatives, the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Construction that knows business and housing, but we question the Law on the Community Economy itself. It's not the same, it's the essence of a fee for business and housing. The communal fee for business facilities is up to 7 times higher than for residential buildings. I, to be clear, do not advocate that business facilities pay more, but then first we need to bring them into an equal position with those who will tang this law. But the point is in the next, and that's what I think we all know especially down there that we live not by the sea but by the sea or by that coastal line itself. There are thousands of housing units on the market, especially by the bottom of the sea. They or those housing units can't be sold today. This law allows these unsold apartments to start renting through this form the next day, and that doesn't have to be bad. The only question arises is whether they will be competition for those who have so far been legitimately doing business and who are now, or so far, paying up to seven times as much municipal compensation as those who will be operating in residential buildings. That's actually what this is about. So it's about this law to put unsold apartments on the market. I say absolutely why not. Let the gentlemen or perform a re-use, let them pay that communal fee or those who pay an increased communal fee in line with those who will be in one privileged position today. When we talk about this argument itself, then it is said among other things to quote or mention the flat, so I quote that it enables the caterer to provide accommodation services in facilities, type of rooms, apartment, study apartment, house, etc., opening of new companies, crafts to perform catering activities for self-employment. But here, but you also need to know that mostly the tenants are all on the cobwebs, everyone's on the cobwebs. So it's about guessing those who can't sell apartments right now. Let it or re-purposes and then calm Bosnia or let everyone pay under the same conditions I don't know the same price as those who will pay the next day on the chance to be in a more favourable position than those who until yesterday have worked and performed legally. Now, is there a phase two tomorrow? Whether tourist facilities such as our hotels may not be filled the next day, which cannot be sold in this form, will show simple time. When I talk about tourism itself, we all remember Mr. Byce, he had the best results. And I am really asking the open question whether, in the 2013 term, after Mr Ostojić had abdicated, he bought something for 900 thousand, resold by 3 and a half million euros or his, it doesn't matter. Whether a new hotel in the Republic of Croatia has been built. I personally don't think so, for Istria I'm sure. During that period of three and a half years, no new hotel was built and it is a tragedy. Brijuni Rivieras will be another tragedy, drawn from over 20 million kunas, and as far as I can see from the budget of the County of Istria, thank God for those purposes, not a single kuna is provided. 20 million kunas were drawn and no one had anything to do with it. Investment in Istrian tourism. Today, the presidents of the state, the Government, if I'm not mistaken, should at St. Nicholas near Poreč open a renovated apartment hotel or this island village. But investments in Istrian tourism in 2014 absolutely failed. There's an investment in the Arena tourist, something petty, and what I'm talking about in the Riviera. Everything on the trail of this brilliant slogan paid 2.8 million kuna "Full of Life". It is good that the season will probably be better, Croatia has enormous potential but unfortunately in this country we see that no serious financial potential wants to invest. Croatia, according to the latest data, sees 33 places of 189 countries in competitiveness. We are primarily here for natural goods, because of this positional rent that we inherited from the ancestors or from God, while in all other words we find ourselves at the bottom of a tax scale and beyond. Well, it's not weird, and why is that, because only the tourism ministry is 100% under quotes privatized by one party, only they and no one else, and that's certainly not good. Because as competition does not develop in the ministry itself, then there is no normal or positive that would bring this competition through the highest places to the state. Tourism and I dare say, is mostly what was created by the 1990s, so I said just four years ago no new hotel was built that I knew in Istria was safe. Something was restored, yes, but it wasn't built. And then we have a tourism strategy that says that by 2020 a number of hotels that would have 20,000 rooms should be built. That means somewhere around 200 hotels with 200 rooms. It's just unblessed, because it should be built about 50 hotels a year on the Adriatic coast. So I said, with this law absolutely, there's no problem, we'll support it, but let's be careful and let those who work in the business and housing areas of the same condition, that also, under the same conditions, pay the same fee. All the same, let no one be privileged, let no one be discriminated against. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109123	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109124	Thank you. Mr. Cain, when you talk about the same conditions, ask the gentleman, he's not here, Clarina, he'll come for a vote, how much they pay so-called. The weekends are the communal contribution, and how much they pay for their homework. Or here from Vodice, maybe it's a different example, I don't know. So, if weekenders pay 50 kuna per communal contribution either per square or per cubic meter, and domestic only kuna. It's already discrimination. And you're talking about communal compensation. And if someone is flying for 15, 20 days in his home that he has in any Dalmatian place or on islands, then he pays neat garbage 60 kunas a month, all year long, and the locals live there for a year and pay in the same way. Why would these guys pay so 12 times more? Therefore, when we talk about justice and injustice, look at the same thing on the other side of the medal. So you can't talk like that. And about hotels, this very law that we also support brings us the possibility that we don't have to build so many hotels, that we can have the capacity to achieve people in private accommodation through this law. You see how they talk about the so-called. the possibility that people who have houses can rent only by request of legalisation but therefore get a temporary permit to use the house for tourist purposes. Here, so much for that one of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109125	Damir Cain, the reply to the replica? On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109126	Honored vice presidents, esteemed deputy and assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Household Activity Act, which has now been implemented, has experienced 8 amendments and additions, and there is also a need for a new one, it was appropriate to draw up a new Household Activity Act in order to facilitate business in catering, bring new quality, and remove obstacles and irregularities that occur in the implementation. It is good that this law is in the parliamentary procedure in two readings, so we hope that the irregularities it has will be removed. It should also be said that the effects of the proposed newspapers will not be seen in this tourist season. In fact, the season has already begun, and yet to enter into force of this law, it requires another reading in this House of Commons, then publication and what is the most difficult implementation. The HDZ Club supports the many changes adopted by this proposal of the Law on Hosting Activity but we also have observations and suggestions on certain irregularities that can create unfair competition, bring new problems in our hospitality. We support a newspaper that enables our citizens to rent their rooms and apartments legally in those facilities that are in the process of legalisation and simplifying the outcome of the necessary permits when changing the owner of a specific catering facility. We also support the establishment of a central and unique access register for catering activities and services in tourism that will include all catering and other facilities in which catering services are provided. Enabling camping outside camps during the maintenance of adventure activities on rivers and seas as well as allowing for hosting activities in galleries. Then allow preparation and serving drinks and drinks in retirement associations and voluntary fire departments, preparation and serving and meals for their members and guests during fire-fighting events up to a maximum of 4 times in one calendar year. It is also exempt from the application of this law to organise food and accommodation organised by exec associations for its members. So we've got pensioners' associations, we've got fire departments, we've got reconnaissance organizations. But this law again does not cover members of amateur sports associations, clubs. And in these clubs we have a number of members who are mature and later in life. By volunteering for many years and working for the general good, they held these clubs. A large number of their members are retired. The various events they organize are sports-humanitarian character, so it would be good to allow their members and guests in club rooms to prepare and serve meals, drinks, drinks at least when organizing a sports-humanity event or activity, at least 4 times a year as they are in fire companies. Furthermore, we cannot agree that this law, this bill, will increase professionalism and raise quality in providing services. Namely, a provision on the obligation to have each catering facility employed by a minimum one person who has a condition of professional training or a master's examination prescribed for the performance of tied crafts. Which means that it is a step backwards in professionalism and quality in catering and tourism. This degrades the waist, and can result in a lower level of quality. It is precisely the regulation of the conditions of trade-related expertise that guarantees quality in the pursuit of catering activities, health protection as well as consumer protection and should apply equally to craftsmen and legal persons. We therefore consider it necessary to introduce the proposed provision. This law proposes to private owners who have applied for legalisation so that they can come up with a temporary solution without the conditions of proof that the owners of the land on which the facility is built. It is explained that this is being introduced especially because of the situation in the land books of buildings and land on islands. However, for the development of hospitality and tourism on islands and coasts, it would be the most important if the Ministry of Tourism requested that the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports be adopted as urgently as possible. This long-awaited law should resolve a number of dilemmas and enable the legal functioning of maritime goods facilities, which are the most attractive areas that are just the most interesting for the pursuit of catering activities. The highest interest in this new bill has been given a provision allowing the representative body of the unit of local self-government and, in their area, may also allow longer working hours of catering facilities, as the current provision limiting working time has been stated, depending on the type of catering facility, to be assessed as limiting to the development of tourism. According to this proposal, the city council or municipal council will be able to extend the working hours of the catering facility and groups of restaurants and bars and allow work from 0 to 24 without any legal requirements. This provision thus loses the meaning of a number of other provisions of the same law then there is no sense in the provision which requires that the minimum conditions for the type of device and equipment of the catering facility must be met in order to carry out the catering activity in the catering facilities. So far, it's been known exactly what objects can work too hard at night. It was a disco bar, a disco club, a nightclub and a nightclub. They could get permission to work if they had prescribed sound insulation and atest on the noise. These hosts invested considerable resources in their facilities, and there were problems again. It further states in the proposal of this law that the competent office determines whether these conditions are met for this type of catering facility, and that the solution to work is obtained provided that the conditions are met in accordance with the specific rules of the Law on Construction, the Law on the Protection of Noise and the like. With this bill, the city council, or municipal council, may decide that a single facility works all night, although there are no such conditions as are necessary to work at night. After the minimum conditions have already been established and the resulting work solution for e.g. The category of coffee bar local representative body will level it with that object that has a solution to the disco bar. This creates unfair competition for all those who had to invest additionally at night, and we ask the question when can the catering facility be granted for work throughout the night without the necessary additional conditions why are there many rules that the minister brings or should be brought to? What we need is a rule to count the hooks at the door of the hangers in the closet when the most significant conditions for working at night and that is sound insulation does not have to be fulfilled and the object will be able to work legally. And then why is this bill for catering facilities from the group of restaurants and bars listed between 6 and 24? Then why don't you give it to the cities and municipalities in full, and they'll make their own decisions. There's an even bigger problem in controlling these provisions. In the summer months and so far there have been frequent problems with working hours and noise, and this proposal can be a lot more. Now they'll be able to work all night and coffee bar and fast food. So far, he's been upset by a guest or citizen who knew exactly if he was in the vicinity of a disco bar, disco club, nightclub, or someone in these other categories, and he knew exactly who he could call at 3:00 a night and whether it was the offender. It should also be said that at 3 o'clock a night you can't get or call a tourist inspector. New reorganisation of the State Inspectorate, for example. Sibenik-Knin County has a single tourist inspector. And so at 3:00 a.m., a troubled citizen can only call the police, the police knew exactly if it was the offender, wrote the record, and forwarded it to the authorities. Now that cop can no longer know if it's an infringer because even though there's a bright commercial out there from a coffee bar, fast food can be allowed by the city council or community council to work all night long. Furthermore, the law stipulates that the offender can be determined the longest by two now-to-be early hours. I'm asking you when an object works from 0 to 24 what are two hours? Is it 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., or 10 to 12 in the morning? For such facilities, work hours should be shortened by me for 6 hours and exactly 24 to 6 a.m. because then they're the biggest problems. And all that this tourist inspector, the only one we have in the entire county finds a caterer not to observe his working hours under this bill, has no ability to drop the ban on his activities. Why, then, the conditions for working at night, why someone invests in sound insulation, the commission determines the conditions, makes remarks, asks for the removal of shortcomings, the release of a solution to work at night when a coffee bar can also do so throughout the night if it is favoured by the city or municipal council. This law gives us full liberalisation of services, but we must not forget that total freedom can lead to great problems. The HDZ Club supports the Ministry of Tourism's intention to make this law possible for all those who wish to carry out catering activities or to provide catering services, but in this work should be the order, so let's prescribe the conditions. According to this proposal, long-term laws do not require the opinion of the tourist community or the opinion of the sanitary inspection, there is no need for any good to have sound isolation but a good majority in the city or municipal council.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109127	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109128	Thank you very much. My colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, of course, believe that you were also abroad in many tourist centers or capitals, starting with Barcelona, Paris, etc. And we had something to see there. There, the liberalisation of tourist services does not bother anyone, on the contrary it goes towards increasing the overall tourism traffic and image of the country, that city as a tourist town. Look at the beginning of Amsterdam, Vienna, Barcelona, Paris any city. I don't know, we're making a little bit of a stand-up now, even though you'll be in, but you've made some remarks. And most of all, I won't say it bothers but it hurts, that despite the unregulated land books, therefore the property owners can issue can be put into production in tourist production as someone calls the tourist industry their rental facilities etc. In Slavonia if you do not legalize any farm farm, barn or anything else you have no chance of getting any chance to participate in the eu project or anything else. Tourist parts also give the possibility of earning those who have not yet legalized. Unfortunately, agricultural facilities that are in Slavonia, which are not legalised, they have no way to produce anything, do nothing, get no incentives or anything else or do projects for the EU. Here you see you have a small possibility, not a small but quite a possibility that in these tourist parts mostly coastal people can deal with tourism even though they have not legalized even land books. With us in Slavonia where agriculture is, we have neither such a possibility nor a state provides it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109129	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109130	I said we are for liberalisation, we imitate work at night but under certain conditions. We're not about to get one guest ready to lose another or maybe two.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109131	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109132	Dear fellow Martinchev, you have warned in your debate on the provisions of the laws relating to working time in catering and tourism and you are rightly warning, so you could now argue that the legislative solutions offered on this law, and since the first reading is likely to listen again to all the remarks that will be made, allow me to say one new unfair competition and often local decisions that will not be in the interest of developing tourism but unfair competition with those who have so far had to meet the specific conditions to get permission to work at night. But we've always met up with the problem of operating time control, and then we invented salt-heated water and different inspections, state inspectorates and everything else. I've traveled across Europe, and I've learned one thing about it, for example, the supervisory authority and the order to shut down an out-of-work facility, there's a cop, every cop who's on duty at that point, and no one else needs to be called except the police. I don't know why Croatia has police, and then for situations like this, when we know that the entire control apparatus is working for neither holidays nor night, we leave room for the biggest problems to the citizens, because this is a problem and we have to consider it also in the context of not only tourist areas but those parts of the cities in Croatia that are not touristic, and where objects have a significant impact on the quality of life, and thus also on the price of living space when buying. So we must also take care of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I don't want to prevent the development of tourism, but I point to the government that the issue of control and the order of closure has police, not inspectors that we don't actually have anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109133	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109134	Thank you very much. Well, you're a colleague of Lesar's right. Working time control under this law has only a tourist inspector. We know that tourist inspectors are very little, and working hours will be prescribed by the local self-government unit. Was it logical that then what the city prescribed that it was also in the jurisdiction of the city's control, means communal director? No, although it was an observation and a proposal to include it in this law, it was not included. The city and the municipality could then do it better in their territory. If there is a problem, they will hire several communal directors, if there is a need, then the communal director will be available to our citizen or guest who has an objection at 2.3 a night. We can't regulate it with a tourist inspector without saying that there's a tourist inspector when in the mornings or a burning weekend on Mondays he's covered with reports, he says you know it's not up to us, it's your city or the municipality has prescribed such a working time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109135	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev you have rightly singled out as one of the problems in the functioning and quality of the operation with the remaining catering activities of not adopting a new Law on the Sea Good. You know that this government announced in the first year of its mandate the adoption of a new law that would improve the concession of maritime goods, thus putting a number of catering facilities throughout the Adriatic. When the HDZ Club proposed the adoption of a new Law on the Sea Good Ruler, most of the law refused or did not accept it, although it generally agreed with all the solutions set out in that law. And a number of solutions from this law have enabled what you are in your presentation of instructions, which is putting into operation a number of facilities on the coast, primarily through the concession procedure on demand which would then allow for the normal functioning of these objects. And today, across the Adriatic, many objects are not working because or have not established the limit of maritime goods or their concession been resolved. And when it comes to ports open to public transport and when it comes to ports of nautical tourism, etc., etc. So I agree with you that it is practically one of the essential assumptions of quality functioning and such objects that are located on the maritime good, adoption and new law that would firstly give greater authority to units of local self-government, cities and municipalities who know the problem best where the issue of their functioning could be resolved. Not only the granting of greater powers to local self-government units but the granting of greater powers and counties, i.e. regional self-government units, which could speed up concessioning or economic use of maritime goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109137	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, deal on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109138	True, colleagues Bačić and our guests often wonder why our most attractive places by the sea are arranged I would say nakaradno. Namely, by providing catering services in these locations we have on the benches, under tents, on a wheelchair, from the vehicle precisely because an adequate permit cannot be obtained, means a confirmation of construction in these areas because it is not possible to establish the limits of maritime goods and various other problems that we have on the maritime good result that these most attractive areas are the most unsettled and we have the lowest quality of catering services in these locations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109139	On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109140	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Mrs Lapic, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club will support the proposal for a law on catering activity in the first reading. We assess the law with quality and welcome the adoption of a new law since the law so far has experienced as many as 8 additions and changes and this will make it easier to apply and make it easier to do so. We also support the fact that the Law goes into two readings so that we can take a good look at it and reconsider the comments made during the public debate held between 27 February and 22 March and consider the proposals made during today's debate. The Household Activity Act shall regulate the manner and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out the catering activity. This law introduces many newspapers in relation to the same-named applicable law, such as setting minimum working hours, catering facilities, but allows local self-government units to determine longer working hours in their area if they so wish. Before that was possible for the longest of two hours, which certainly wasn't enough in certain environments. In this way, the individual of local self-government has the independence to take care primarily of its citizens but also of the needs of guests provisions different working time which is certainly potential for tourism development and no one knows better and needs in their midst than the local self-government units themselves or their representative and executive bodies. However, as regards the working time of family farms whose introduction is the same newspaper in this law, I believe that this should be reconsidered since family farms are actually working on orders, often weekends, holidays, and in the season depending on where they are. It is also good that the caterer can occasionally provide catering services outside of his catering facility during the duration of individual events, fairs and the like. However, Article 12(4) states that the organiser of events, which is a tourist community or a local self-government unit, is obliged to ensure that the conditions prescribed by the necessary food regulations are met. Does this mean that the unit of local self-government and the tourist community, i.e. the mayor, the mayor or director of the tourist community, is responsible if any food poisoning occurs during the organisation of such a event. Since it is not envisaged that the sanitary inspection issue previous solutions to participants events. I am interested in the answer to this question, as well as the question of what are the conditions that the local self-government unit must meet in order to ensure the necessary food regulations. The new law also allows the preparation and service of food drinks and drinks to voluntary fire companies at the time of holding fire competitions, anniversary, events up to 4 times a year. It also enables pensioners’ associations to serve drinks for their members because it is a sensitive group of citizens who generally do not use the services of catering facilities, but who are meeting the need for social contacts through their clubs. Here it is still necessary to consider that, in addition to public institutions managed by national parks and nature parks, we add public protection, management, means to manage protected monuments of nature because we have such cases in practice, here and specifically on my island, we have no nature park, we have two monuments of nature, in the future it is possible to set up a public institution. We have three such protected caves, and it is safe to consider this situation. The existing law lays down in Articles 20 and 21 that the competent office shall, at the request of the host, determine whether the minimum conditions for the type of catering facilities not categorized have been met within 30 days of the date of the duly lodged application. Now that deadline doesn't exist. I don't know if it's prescribed by any other law because if we couldn't have a long-term administrative procedure that would certainly cause consequences because of the inability of the caterer to start working in his facility. The current law regulated this issue in such a way that if the competent office does not adopt a solution within the prescribed time limit, the host may start working with a prior notification to the competent office. It enables companies and crafts to provide accommodation services in buildings not only in business space but also in residential space, thus encouraging the opening of new companies and crafts to carry out economic activities, as well as employment. Here I agree with colleague Cain that this needs to be further brought into line with the Law on the municipal economy and to see how public compensation will be calculated in this case. We particularly welcome that private owners who have applied for legalisation are allowed to provide catering services in the household and without the conditions of proof that the owners of the land on which the facility is built, at least until 31.12.2016. This is a major problem especially in islands where property relations are unsolved, where you often have to pull all the way to America or Australia to solve these problems. It is also good that the extended exceptions in the permission of camping in special situations, in sports events, are added adventure activities. This is certainly one way we can extend the tourist season and enrich the tourist offer. There are still a lot of good newspapers in this bill on the ban on drinking that contain alcohol to people under 18 years of age until the central register for catering activities and services in tourism that will be publicly available. The amounts of fines for individual offences are reduced and higher amounts of fines for repetitive offences are prescribed. The amount of fines that can be imposed at the scene of the offence in order to better collect from tourist inspectors and more often select the payment of fines at the scene of the offence, as well as the discharge of criminal courts. All words should facilitate the work of the caterers and increase their efficiency in order to make a greater profit and a happier guest, and should be hurried by another reading of the new Household Activity Act in order to achieve its effects already this season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109141	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109142	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleague. As a rule, as you yourself have said, this law offers a series of improvements and should especially be commended for this part with pensioners, firefighters, scouts. But as my colleague Branka said earlier, we really need to consider what's going on with amateur sports clubs and in some ways they're getting into this part too, because that's a big problem. I don't think there's any reason why they shouldn't be allowed to do the same kind of activity in their sports performances in any way, and that's why I reported to you as representatives of the leading club, so the government's majority, that maybe you would suggest it, and it would be easier for you to pass. And I'd like to maybe just warn a little bit about two more things. You also mentioned the O.P.G.s and means working hours and I agree with you, because the O.P.G. doesn't have time in the day-to-day job. So the country household doesn't have a working time, it works all the time, and since it's orders really need to be seen to allow people not to be limited to some working time at the OPG because they have to feed cattle, they have to produce, they don't have time to work there. It means you can see the possibility of providing such a service. But I'd like to point out an additional problem that's not part of this bill, but it's very attached to hospitality. It's work in restaurants, restaurants, and even on OPGs when they have more guests, when they have the meaning of some events, events, weddings, then there's a problem, employee problem. So, they can't at least tell me, hire a man on that night, on that night, but they have to have him in a working relationship, and there they should see in the following laws to allow something similar to that in agriculture for seasonal jobs that people with that stamp and paid contributions can take people for such occasional jobs when they have certain events. Well, here's one such request and a suggestion to follow it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109143	Tonka Ivčević, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109144	Well, here's the thing about sports associations, I'm sure the promoters heard you, and they'll consider these situations, too, if possible. I agree with that, certainly put them in the same way as voluntary fire companies, at least up to four times a year. That would certainly be acceptable. As far as the O.P.G.'s concerned, that's where I think we agreed. I think here's how I said in my debate that there shouldn't be a limit on working time because it's really a specific activity and they're doing what they want and how much they have during the season that's already on land in the winter, summers on the islands and the coast. But here they do season jobs and orders. As for employment, I think anyone can hire someone for a short period of time and for one day and two days. I think our laws allow it and I think it can be solved within these frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109145	On behalf of DC clubs, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109146	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. As we have already heard the current Household Activity Act is assessed as unsettled and restrictive for the development of catering activities, and how the catering activity is extremely important in the function of the total tourist offer, and for the overall economic development we welcome all efforts to improve legal legislation. In the Tourism Development Strategy until 2020, it is listed as a specific objective of institutional deregulation, so it is particularly stressed that there is a need to significantly simplify or deregulate the existing legal-legislative framework, thus creating a stimulating and transparent institutional framework rooted according to the size of entrepreneurs. With this proposal, according to my assessment, the law only partially meets that goal. In fact, the text of the law itself is unnecessarily complicated and not quite clear, and it refers to a large number of citizens who are engaged in this activity and do not necessarily have legal education. Some of these amendments that are proposed in relation to the applicable law are that the minimum working hours of catering facilities are regulated by law, as well as to allow units of local self-government to determine longer working hours of catering facilities in their area as well as the conditions under which they can operate in accordance with the needs of guests and the needs of their residents. I wouldn't interpret this provision the way my colleague Martinchev presented it. I see no reason to trust so little to the council members in municipal and city councils, I believe that they are fully aware of their responsibilities and that they will indeed make such decisions, valid decisions, as well as tourists, and that their decisions will explain whether all the legal conditions for those catering facilities that require extended working hours are met. Of course, here I fully agree with a colleague who said that this should be taken into account in particular the protection of workers and indeed our seasonal workers and in some other activities and workers in a permanent working relationship are not sufficiently protected from overtime which is not shown and I think that the special law must regulate the issue of the protection of seasonal workers who work much longer during the season than prescribed by law. Legalization would say that I would like to make it possible for them to engage in catering activities and craftsmen and other legal persons that it is positive and it will indeed lead to some shifts and a number of those who will be engaged in renting and providing tourist services in their housing facilities as well as other citizens. I think it's perfectly right that all citizens have equal access and equal opportunities. But I don't think it's going to do too much good in the way the proposer says it, i.e. to significantly improve and qualitatively improve the tourist offer because a number of other incentives are needed to achieve this. What seems even more important to me in this law, colleagues and colleagues have also said about this, is the proposal to allow private tenants who have applied for legalisation to provide catering services, i.e. to authorise temporary categorisation by submitting a legalisation request. That's just fine, and I think they could do it, and by the old law, it seems to me. But now I'm interested, and I'd like to ask the deputy minister what's going on with those citizens who have neat building permits but who don't have the right permits? They're also suspended under this law. Namely, as they prove their property, as they get their useful permits, they go a few months, and I think they're cut off by it. Therefore, this provision should also apply to those citizens whose buildings were built before 1968, so it seems to me that they did not need a building permit and a useful permit for those who have a building permit and have no use for them because at the time they were given a building permit they did not even need a valid permit. Speaking of which, we welcome all this news that promotes this activity and such as camping outside the camps at the time of holding certain adventure, educational and other activities and the novelty is the reduction of both the highest and lowest amount of fines for individual offences while also prescribing higher amounts of penalties for repetitive violations. Of course, we welcome any reduction in penalties and any treatment that will in any way improve both quality and reduce the number of any violations, but we do seem to be dealing with penalties and violations too much in this law. They're given the greatest attention in the law. From 62 articles of the law, I know you can't speak in this way and measure the quality and intensity of a law, but it's interesting to see. Therefore, of Article 62, Article 7 and Article 70, points (a) and (b) shall deal with penalties and sanctions. While the basic matter and objectives of the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy are very little about this law, except, of course, these improvements that we all talked about. When it comes to the regulation of the right to engage in catering activities in residential buildings, there is no saying that this law simplifies it or that it regulates the existing legal framework because categorisation is being carried out both now and under the new law, a solution on categorisation will be issued in view of four possible situations. I think you'll agree to that. So for the same, the exact same accommodation unit categorization is done given the age of the facility, so one is the conditions for old objects, the other are the conditions for new objects, and the star is exactly the same. The same are the conditions for natural persons, citizens or private tenants, others are for craftsmen and legal persons and yet the star is exactly the same. The ministry, as we have seen in the context of this proposal, says that these changes will lead to an increase in diversity and further development of the catering offer that we hope for, therefore, to easier business, greater professionalism and better quality of services, to more effective management of the grey economy, greater employment, and ultimately to strengthen the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism and to increase revenues from tourism. It is also estimated that, after the entry into force of this law, the revenues of the state budget will also be increased due to this expected increase in the number of entities involved in the catering activity. However, it seems to me that this law has unearthed the door quite a bit to increase the diversity and further development of the catering offer by allowing us to see museums and galleries dealing with hospitality for its visitors and to enable the owners of food services to their guests. It is too little and not too much incentive to sense a sudden increase in diversity or a sense of suppressing the gray economy. To fully liberalise access to this activity so as to enable all institutions in culture to host and be fully open to all citizens, it would likely encourage the interest of these institutions to, in accordance with their basic activities, their basic activities of a rich and catering offer, to attract guests with different approaches, with a different story, with a new experience. Wouldn't it be interesting to listen to music with healing tea, some healing potions, exotic even? Or in a library cafe waiting for your children to finish playingrooms and reading rooms, review magazines. For example, the Zadar Library, and I believe that many other libraries have ideal conditions for such activity. Or a puppet theater, for example, or any other institution in culture. Content can also be enriched with quality and diverse offer with catering facilities and I see no reason to be just two hours before and two hours after the show. Aren't we afraid of making too much money? This proposal in the public debate received the following answer, the proposal is not accepted because the provision of Article 4(2) of those public institutions in culture which were intended to enable the hosting activity to be carried out under special conditions. I ask a question and why would other institutions in culture not be able to carry out catering activities under special conditions? A series of reasons, for a long time, we could discuss tourism as an interdisciplinary activity whose basic branch of hospitality is discussed. We support every approach that liberalises this activity, we absolutely agree with all colleagues and I think that in the second reading we will have a lot of quality proposals for changes and additions. We think that we must take special care of the new wave, the new trend in the development of tourism, Dalmatian cities, and I see that Zagreb has already noticed that we have a whole new kind of tourists who have no basic motive for the sun and the sea to come, they possess the old city's cores, you have seen that in the old city's cores the apartments are greatly renovated and turned into apartments. So one said I would have the entrepreneurial impulse is caused, those guests must especially be taken care of, they are somewhat shorter kept in one place but they visit a large number of cities and our destinations they love and they like our slow way of life, they want to experience the charm of our destinations and this law will enable and increase the offer in this part of the tourism demand. These are mostly young or over 65 years old, and this should be paid particular attention. What this law does not allow is what we think should be taken into account, and that is to allow categorization for only one star. This would encourage many to start with a more serious engagement in catering activities with time would then raise the quality of accommodation, it would certainly affect the reduction of the grey economy and would be positive for all and citizens, and for the local community that collects tourist tax and for tourists because they would have a choice and cheaper offer. These are tourists who are not too interested in what their apartment looks like except that it is neat and clean, but who are interested in what is happening in the night life, are interested in concerts, galleries, museums and charms of Dalmatian and other Croatian cities. Since I don't have time anymore, I can only repeat that the New Wave DC Club and the People's Party Reformist will support this law and with the hope that some of these remarks will be appreciated in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109147	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109148	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sabolic, you said we didn't trust enough municipal or city councilmen. We believe that they will make the decision knowingly. However, a conscientious councilman will certainly prescribe the conditions under which he will give and approve longer working hours, and just meeting these conditions under this law will not be able to control our communal director, and he will not be allowed to sanction the failure of these conditions by a tourist inspector. We just want the law to decidently state who will control and what are the conditions if it comes to work too hard at night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109149	Vesna Sabolic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109150	Thank you very much. My colleague Marinchev, I absolutely disagree with you. I think in tourism every excessive norm is actually a brake. The local community is already very responsible in most cases and will be increasingly responsible, we think that this is how development is encouraged, and that absolutely city councilors and mayors, commissioners and municipal councilmen have a model of how to bring order to those who do not comply and I believe that they will not grant extended working time to those who do not have conditions for this to harm citizens. So I think we should let go of a little freedom, see how things are going because we've never really been able to do a lot of repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109151	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear deputy, assistant, co-workers and colleagues. The current Household Activity Act has been in place for 9 years and has experienced 8 amendments and additions and has now shown the need to amend some other provisions. The catering activity is important because of the overall offer in one of the most important branches of the Croatian economy, it is tourism. These changes remove some obstacles to better offer and development of tourism such as the eternal topic in cities at sea, the working time of catering facilities, taking into account the needs and wishes of guests on the one hand, and on the other side of their citizens, as well as associations such as the Association of sleepy tenants who made her remarks in public debate. I'm the one who stays the most today at one of the additions to this law, and that's the provision of Article 6. Item 6. This provision, after many years of requests and justified requests, solves seemingly small but large problems for pensioners’ associations. Thanks to the understanding of the Ministry of Tourism as well as the catering institutions of pensioners’ associations, it is possible to prepare and serve drinks and drinks for their members in their benches. There is one observation from some of our associations why food is abandoned and prepared here, so they suggest that, on an exceptional occasion, in this article, in paragraph 6 the preparation of meals, drinks and piss is excluded. Although it is on exceptional occasions it may happen and there is concern that we will not have a problem with the inspection. We also received an observation as to perhaps a bit of a confusing name above Article 6 which says: "providing food, drink and accommodation services which are not subject to the provisions of the law" and then all institutions such as fire departments, the Union of Scouts and, of course, the Association of Retired People are afraid of false interpretation of the laws and remarks by the inspectors are listed in Article 6. Since these facilities are about exclusively guest pensioners, our citizens who like to hang out in their club spaces, the bill promoter has taken into account that this third-age citizen population is mostly not using catering services, but is in need of social contacts in its clubs. With the hanging out and the stories of years of work, the times that have passed so quickly, along with cards and playing chess will now finally be able to drink a glass of wine or cold beer after lunch in the coming hot days. So far, it has been a nightmare for all the leaders of such objects because the sword of the strict inspectors and the great punishment for their modest budgets stood over their heads. I am pleased that this law, along with the pensioners' associations, solves a similar problem that has been plagued by voluntary fire companies, and I am sorry that the sports amateurs' associations appeared too late, although the public debate took place for almost a month. Finally, once again on behalf of the pensioners' associations, I thank the tourism ministry for understanding and solving this long-standing and large problem of pensioners. Of course, the club of HSU representatives with a smile on their faces will raise their hands to change this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109153	That's nice to hear. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an associate. The HNS will adopt the proposal for a law on the catering activity based on the reasons provided by the Tourism Committee from which we stand out. In the debate that followed at the committee's meeting following the presentation of the law by the ministry's representatives, part of the MPs agreed that the new Law on Hosting Activity was more liberal than applicable and that this would result in a better implementation of the provisions of the law. However, some questions have also been raised regarding local self-government's powers regarding the determination of working time or who will specifically determine which of the facilities meets the requirements for 24 hours' work. It also warned of the problem of punishing law enforcement and making a solution in reducing working hours and the need to determine which 2 hours will be dealt with. It is also proposed that it be necessary to establish the deadline for making the necessary decisions of the units of local self-government for a shorter, or longer period of time, and in order to clearly establish the criteria for the implementation of that decision. It is proposed to return the name of the tourist peasant household, the economy because this is how the OPGs providing catering services become unrecognizable and equal to the other 184 thousand 511 OPGs registered in the Republic of Croatia. As regards working hours, board members think it is not necessary to attribute it because the OPGs mainly work on orders, weekends, holidays and at certain seasons and all depending on the area in which they are located. It has also been warned that the state of the central register for catering activities and services in tourism has not been completed. The register is mentioned but there is a difference between the entry into force and the adoption of this law for many registered entities that will be part of it. What will happen to the charge of a flat-rate fee and how it will be calculated in a situation where we do not have a central register and we no longer have that provision in the law. As regards education and professional training of staff whose obligation on the applicable law exists and not regulated by the draft law, the members of the board warned that this would affect the reduction of the similarity of those who will enter the catering and which would also affect the quality of the provision of catering services. It also raised the question of who is given the possibility to engage in catering activities and how some provisions of the law should be amended in order to ensure that monitoring can be carried out as well as possible. It has been warned that the exclusion of paragraph 3 of Article 20 from the applicable law and the non-compliance of the administrative procedure with the deadline may have very serious negative consequences or long-term effects of the administrative procedure while the consequences of the removal of the whole of Article 21 of the applicable law may be unhappiness of the competent authorities and which will not be sanctioned. It is suggested that the words catering service on the bench, wheelchairs and similar appliances should be excluded from the law because such a form of provision of catering services does not contribute to the quality of tourism and arrangements of the tourist destination. We in the Croatian People's Party and Liberal Democrats feel that there is certainly something more to be said about hospitality. Namely, hospitality today is something completely different than it was 20, 15, or 10 years ago. Attendance is a particularly pro-pulsive activity, competition is numerous and ruthless and thus content and quality of activity rises to unsuspecting heights. If we just look at the effort and the huge investment in editing space and the architectural, design locks of various architects, these are the best quality and latest materials and original furniture solutions, design of the ambience itself. It is a huge food equipment industry from innovations in kitchen machines to simply perfect coffee appliances, cups, hours, plates, cutlery and all other equipment. The offer itself is not to talk, from regular cafes through various fast-food facilities to top cocktail bars or the highest restaurants and nightclubs. First of all, in order to increase profits and catch up with competition. But there is a genuine desire for guests to feel as comfortable as possible at their catering facility. In most cases, our Croatian hosts still have this household charge and this desire to make the guest feel good, hosted and comfortable. And it is one of the specifics and rare values of Croatian hospitality. It would be good if it were valorized and could be preserved. Croatia normally has nothing to do with the world's offer and the quality of the catering offer that continues to improve daily. The truth is critics will be told in the restaurant business that there are no top-notch so-called. Slow food restaurants such as only the world's rarest metropolis. But we don't even have such guests. When we develop even more recently in terms of the overall tourist offer, we are convinced that such restaurants will also appear without any problems. However, Croatia has certain restaurants especially on the Adriatic, for example. in Hvar, the Paklen Islands or the Kornati, or Ugljan, and in many other Adriatic places, which can satisfy the world's most demanding tastes with their ambience, offer and quality of food, style and quality of service, and many of them are world-class. We should be proud of this, and it should be examples and direction of the development of hospitality. And here we come to the most painful point of our hospitality, which is the education of catering workers and employees. Our state, high and high schools, which educate staff in catering, must simply begin to follow trends, and they must intervene primarily from the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Education, and not to make important and to impose some of their specific ideas, but primarily because of young people coming out of these schools with inadequate knowledge and skills. And as it is clear, quality frames are a prerequisite for quality hospitality. The best-quality chefs, waiters, bartenders, host leaders today unfortunately do not come from our catering schools but have been educated, practiced abroad or are self-taught people who have managed to realize their talents and regardless of the kind of education. There are an increasing number of ad hoc or constant cooking courses that educate chefs past the educational curricula. Such training courses should be supported and, where appropriate, adequately verified but further required with mandatory subjects of work protection, hygiene technical rules and rules on the storage of foodstuffs and thermal treatment. One particular segment that should certainly be mentioned is the entertainment industry. In its inevitable development, hospitality in Croatia is also a feather of the development of the entertainment industry. At the famous Airport are the caterers who have developed the entertainment industry. The clubs at Zrč were named as the best clubs of that kind in the world by relevant electronic publications. This is clearly not a Croatian invention, but an additional offer made by Croatia is one of the most attractive summer tourist destinations for young people in Europe. Other events of the entertainment industry, as well as sports, from sports which did not develop themselves, the hosts themselves require escorts other than accommodation services and the increased presence of hospitality. So all the entertainment facilities are built and open various catering facilities from cocktail bars to restaurants, fast meals or high-end restaurants depending on the type of entertainment content. ULTRA in Split and Hvar as a global event of club concert content is a phenomenon for Croatia that can change the paradigm of access to the entertainment industry, and make all of us aware of what such an event can mean and mean for the economic but cultural overall social development of the place where it happens. Clearly all of this private entrepreneurs do it themselves, invest huge resources to be as competitive in such a demanding and difficult market of catering services, and then do one of the hardest and most physically difficult jobs from morning to dark and always. When we other guests have fun, the caterers and the caterers work hard. The state, or local communities, is asking for more or less not to be disturbed in their efforts to be as high-quality as possible. The Household Act has and must have its multiple functions. First, it must impose order on the market and ensure the same conditions for all catering entrepreneurs. It must then promote the development and quality of the profession, protect the health and safety of consumers, and ensure the safety and protection of the environment. The protection of public order and peace, the safety of guests, safety at work, hygiene and technical and minimum technical conditions, fiscal cash registers, adequate working hours and similar regulations stemming from the law itself are simply notorous. For example, adequate legal interventions such as the educational structure of the management staff of catering facilities or in the classification and categorization of catering facilities and the like can significantly improve the activity in all its segments. In particular, the relationship between local communities and catering entrepreneurs must be regulated. This law requires clear answers to questions about the type, way and place of opening a catering facility, and the way they work in the local community. And as we have already said on many occasions in Croatia to liberal Democrats, we believe that the Law on Hostage must help the caterers, not be, not just a list of criminal measures. We also believe that it is good to pass a new law that, as a new whole, needs to facilitate the insight and actions of all interested people. It seems to me or at least personally that this bill does not correspond to most of its content with the current requirements of modern hospitality. However, there is plenty of time for the second reading to be quality work for the development of Croatian hospitality in the 21st century. As I said at first, the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats will accept the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109155	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. This legislative proposal on catering is marked "E", so it is in line with European laws. Well, that's understandable from what we've heard today that it's actually in some sense a certain liberalisation in the catering activity, and when we go out anywhere, here I am as a doctor by congress, etc. I mentioned before Barcelona, then we see that one Rambla, so the main street in Barcelona lives all night long, that there are no complaints about noise, that nothing changes but not for years, for decades. They say that in our house, catering facilities are recognized, as the media and some of the experts in the toilet wrote. So, quality toilets, purity, etc. is what marks the restaurant itself, gives it a certain quality and qualification of a good facility. I was or were in France in a restaurant, a respected restaurant of course because we were representatives of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia when visiting the Parlement... Where they took us to a respected restaurant. [[The speaker speaks French, he doesn't understand.]] Of course, during our stay, we used a toilet that no dog would go into, let alone any of Croatia's citizens, because it's amazing. I wouldn't want to talk about it, so I don't make people's lunch sick. But there, they say it's a respectable restaurant, etc. So it's not all the same, it's not all the same. They said it's a tradition, so it's because of tradition. Croatian traditions, of course we have and that it is as we like to say and point out our tourist industry is also connected to some of our traditional customs and facilities and everything Croatia can provide to tourists from around the world. You will see in the media and in newspapers ads where, for example, Antalija in Turkey offers 7 days of stay at a hotel with 4 or 5 stars, transportation by plane from Tuzla or Sarajevo, since these lines are good and stalking and friendship and Croatia has good friendly connections, so a low-tariff flight for 1700 kn 7 days with transportation of aircraft. Slavonski Brod - Tuzla I don't know 80 km. So anywhere you can leave your car there can you go for 1700, 1800 kuna 7 days on the coast of Mediterranean Turkey do you have, I'm not making a commercial but that's totally true. He said Mr. Schamper that the HSU club would smile to accept this bill. Well, we have no reason not to accept it either, but I have already told Mr. Deputy Minister for several reasons. In fact, the point is that this administrative barrier is also overcome in terms of the possibility of issuing housing space that people have on the coast, mainly in the Adriatic, and if the object is in the legalisation process. In fact, it will certainly prevent the so - called “good ” part of it. a grey or black economy where people were illegally issuing and where the state was losing millions and not to say hundreds of millions of kunas because of illegal rental and that zimer frei on any station in Croatia room or studio apartments or apartments in residential buildings. They say there will be a large number of such objects with only one, when they apply and when they're in the register, with one to the top of their heads two stars. But we need to know that every slave has its own customer. So so will these apartments, we know well that very often you have guests, our guests are mostly not high paying opportunities as guests in some other countries or exotic areas where they go, which I know some Tenerife or I don't know what. So as I have already said, every commodity has its own customer, so it will certainly find such studio apartments or apartments with one or two stars of its guests from various countries. But I'm pretty sure that if it goes or starts with a certain result that these same people are going to invest in these apartments and these rental areas to improve and get better status, and that increases consumption again, the construction industry. So, indeed, the tourism industry as well as agriculture can be the wheel of the total stopper to say stronger, greater development of Croatia. When I was talking about agriculture and ours, I'm not going to tell the unhappy but the unfulfilled desire about the blue and green furrow, then I have to say that we're at the HDSSB club, but it's not, of course, a decision at the Ministry of Tourism but on someone else, to propose a reduction of taxes on food. Because there's more to it. So by reducing the food tax, we'd get a cheaper offer, we'd get a bigger offer, and we'd be more competitive. Namely, why was I talking about Antalya? So, Antalya in a 3-star hotel you have this price, there is no hotel or private accommodation with 1 star in Croatia that will provide you with this service with two meals a day, so half board is sleeping and flying for that price. And if we cut down on the food tax, then we'd have a chance to establish that long-lost Radic line of green and blue furrows. Well, you see, we have an example that's very good. It's good for someone, but it's not for everyone, and it's beer. The beer that is classified in our legislation in food and therefore has a beer tax is less than a wine tax, I will not talk about amounts. And because of that when you look at those prices of wine and beer, let's say a liter of beer and a liter of wine you see that this is the weakest wine a liter of wine is twice as expensive as two bottles or a liter of beer. We helped our legal regulatory beer industry. Who is the sponsor of all possible sports events from football to not knowing which teams? Beer industry. Who advertises most during world championships in handball sports, football? Beer industry. So there's money. How did that happen? Well, we helped them with the law. And why don't we help food producers in Slavonia? Why doesn't that even occur to anyone? This would also help the tourism industry, thus offering food of domestic quality, excellent food, our Croatian council, would be less tax-based food, thus increasing the competitiveness of Croatia's tourist offer. Unfortunately, it is not decided by the Ministry of Tourism, but I would ask Mr. Deputy to consider, in fact, the total tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia and its colleagues in the Government and other ministers who decide, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, etc. to actually start our agricultural industry. Once tourism was just an additional way of making money in some countries. He wasn't considered some kind of primary branch in the economy at all. Today we call it the tourism industry and say it is a strategic branch of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Let's go anywhere tomorrow, and we know why in the former state, so let's crack a rifle anywhere in the country along Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo anywhere, here's a strategic branch that won't be a strategic one, so there's a lot of external factors that decide on the tourist season. I hope that this year there will be no such factors that will then or here last year have been raining all the time and the tourist season is barely, the tourist season has in some way failed, the increase we expected and planned has not been achieved. And we still haven't returned to the year 2008 when tourism income was the biggest in Croatia's history. As far as these issues are concerned by this law, I agree that units of local self-government, we talked about whether the mayor or the representative body or some representative body has one, as they said has one wider base and more people know more so this is how they say "Man and donkeys know more than man," so I guess the representative body can't, they're chosen by citizens, so I guess they'll represent citizens even though here's a few questionnaires there, but I think it's good for the representative body to decide on the work of catering facilities in the city itself. It also knows well the places, the population, the dangers of noise and all other factors that decide on working time of catering facilities in our places as well as in continental tourism. It's good that there are associations here, mostly pensioners' associations, so they're allowed to prepare and serve drinks and drinks. I'm a little bit vague about this beer thing, it started in this text in the scoreboard, and later it remains the same 18 years of ban. So 18 years of age, or underage, is forbidden, but according to the estimate of the caterer himself as old as he is. He doesn't have the right to tell anyone how to legislate and look for personal data, it's not the police, but there's an assessment of who's a minor, who doesn't decide. So there's a bit of a close-up in some sense, and if not officially but here's a little bit to say the easy circumstances are laid out in the law itself if that's what it says by the assessment, then actually an assessment and it doesn't need or even doesn't exist. Although we also know today that, in addition to the prescribed legal provisions, beer is sold and not only beer but also other things on kiosks and everywhere in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that it was also determined that there are places where those who deal with the descent of canoes or I don't know how to raft, etc. a series of rivers can camp along a river in certain places not only in those camps that are registered and designated officially for camping, which then allows cyclists and all other athletes to therefore stay in the open area and on their way to the tours, here is now the tour of Croatia was, so there was also another event and tourist and sports that contributed to Croatia's image in the tourist world. So, all in all, when we look at all these legal provisions of the HDSSB club will accept this legal proposal and we are glad that they are applied to it, and here and the law bears the label E and European standards, therefore we will not bounce anything from the tourist countries, mainly from Europe's tourism countries, so Italy, France, Spain, Greece and, of course, Turkey. So we will join this community in the hope that this law will contribute to how it is written here at the beginning in the assessment of the situation that the catering activity in the function of the overall tourist offer, that this law will have a significant impact on the increase of this offer and on the reduction of the grey economy that is linked to the tourism industry, precisely the one where the greatest liberalisation has been achieved, and this is the rental and the space I have told the apartments, studio apartments, etc. which are in the process of legalisation which is good for all citizens of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109157	And we have an individual discussion. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109158	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. So the basic question that is being raised to me every day and coming from a tourist destination is what our tourism is today, how we are even thinking about its development, what we are doing is that our tourism in which we all view it as one of the basic pillars of the development of this country, which we make better in the future, which are in fact complete moves that the overall policy of Croatian tourism really achieves the goals that the ministry alone and this government has set for itself through the tourism development strategy by 2020. I remind you that you set certain goals, that is 7 billion euros in investment, 14 billion in tourism, 22,000 new jobs, 10 thousand other jobs in the accompanying activities, 20 thousand new accommodation units. It's only five years ahead of us and the basic question is, how are we and this law going to do it, but with the strategy, do we really realize what was being represented as a revolution here? Because when we ask the ruling tourism in Croatia, it works perfectly well, without problems, we achieve 2 to 3% more arrivals every year, more overnight stays, there is mostly some success of tourism, the minister announces for this year that it will be simple because we can always find these 2.3% and even at the same number or smaller number of accommodation units, on a smaller number of maybe arrivals simply something is legalized, something gets a new solution and a total of something grows and 2% of us are better every year. But what do they do by ruling, I say, in relation to that strategy they offered us? They're already at the beginning, so in 2013, we adopted her in the beginning they've already given up on themselves and on that strategy. This is what it says on pages 67 to 69 in that nice table that should be done in 2013, 2014, 2015 to reach that goal in 2020. They then wrote nicely that a proactive fiscal policy would be implemented and this should be completed and continued from 2013 to 2015. And already in 2014 the proactive fiscal policy rate, among the VAT rates from 10 to 13% for the catering activity. It's called a proactive fiscal policy. In the same year 2014 Croatian waters, for example, raise the compensation for the use of water by 100% and take in one wave only 200 million kunas to camps and all others that spend the largest amount of water and reduce their investment potential. So this is how we think about the development of Croatian tourism. So then we had a story about 100 floating hotels, they were supposed to be sailing ships that should offer a new kind of Croatian tourism, but apparently none of them have been built in the past two years. If maybe someone hadn't bought a foreign ship somewhere and brought it into the Republic of Croatia. I don't know about any of them. Action plans according to certain types of tourism from points 13 to 17 simply I haven't seen them personally and I don't know if they exist at all. You promised the reconstruction of the tourist communities, the only reconstruction I've noticed in these three years is the reconstruction in the leading places, so the director of the tourist community came instead. Everything else, the rest is stories. And the most important thing where they can really increase revenue is maritime well-being. You promise the Marine Good Act for three years, so for Christmas 2012, then for Christmas 2013, for Christmas 2014. Here's Christmas 2015. The seaports and seaport laws we won't see. There's money, there's facilities, there's tourism going on. Gentlemen, when we realize that tourism is happening at sea, on the beach in the sea-goods belt and that there are the biggest profits and the biggest revenues. It's just that this power just put it aside. The optimism offered by the strategy simply annulled the pessimism that prevails throughout society while the government acts populistly and in my opinion completely unseriously. And that's what I'm saying, and I'm saying this strategy where it's justified to prove that it's not being translated, but it seems exactly the opposite of what it says there. What's tourism going to look like this year? We've already seen, we've had Easter weekends, early weekends everyone's done theirs, the tourist community of their fairs, lower forms of the tourist community also, the hotelers have prepared themselves as well, the ministry has offered here a change of law at the last minute, simple tourists come and we feel already in some destinations you have a great growth in arrival, in some gentlemen a great fall. Something's obviously going on in the buking area. What welcomed us from public infrastructure? Well, it was embarrassing for May 1st to wait a few hours to go through a tunnel on the part of the highway. How is it possible that a tunnel that has two strips on one side and on the other, means four strips to be opened only one, that tourists and all who travel to Zagreb and from Zagreb miss each other every few minutes. Well, that's one of the most embarrassing. Who was responsible for that? No one. Not to mention what's going on in our ports, what's going on on our roads. Only now have the works started on all highways and public roads, only now, are the canals being dug and the drain systems are being solved by water supply. We simply have to show from year to year that the Croats work most in the 5th, 6th and 7th months. I don't know what that's about. Where's the system that needs to coordinate? Of course, we'll realize that we're waiting for three weekends in the high season at eight months, we're going to share those flyers a little bit, and we're waiting for tourism days to figure out how successful this season has been. This is the most important law in tourism that we will have problems. Everything's allowed. All the shackles are broken, one liberal law that almost has no rules anymore. People are forced through a certain period to enter rules into the system of rules and now comes a law that says, you don't have to respect anything, no norms. There will be conflict and renters and caterers and hosts and hotelers and tourists, you will see how much it will be. The control system isn't set up properly. Because if so far through the legalization process we've forced people to really go into this process seriously, and we've introduced solutions where you could only be a tenant if you own an object, what are we letting the whole family do now so everyone can deal with it in a way that this family is also the bearer of, say, renting? What's the point of renting an illegal property for me if you don't know who owns the land? Is this what we're giving up through this law of legalization and offering people you don't have to legalize exactly in the coast of islands because you can deal with tourism if you're not even the owner of the property on which the property is located. I don't understand that. So we push one measure, we mess it up with another. System controls, so who's going to control this situation so that every bar can become a disco bar and work from 0 to 24. If it's a little bigger space, it doesn't matter where, if you're capable of determining yourself. have a majority in the municipal or city council that will give you permission to do so. So we have to have a system of control, somewhere on a tourist inspector in the entire county, at the good will of the police to come out. Is that the communal officer we'll raise in two nights to get an eye on, and there'll be as many as you want. At least we have it on shore and you'll see what it'll look like during this... You really need to think here about how you're going to stand up to this work and the powers that you've given to local self-government. Because the moment everything is allowed if it's not a good control system, then there's gonna be a problem and I already see it in advance. And you'll be convinced as a ministry if you didn't want to take that worry off yourself because so far, many have spoken to the ministry, and it's all started with the story of the noise map, so it's come down to the local self-government, and it's authorized the communal offices to control it, and now, through this way, it's going to be further left to that same local self-government that you've poored through another law, through the Income Tax Act, take their money and simply reduce their fiscal capacity. So, we don't have the Marine Good Act, you took our money through the Income Tax Act, and now you're giving us the power to control what's going to happen when you move all the shackles and release the tourism of all the measures that have existed so far. If today's restaurant can run any profession, then what do we do about chefs, waiters, people who work in tourism? And that says this law, anyone can run a catering facility today. So that's what the Chamber of crafts opposed. Well, there must be some minimum knowledge of something, gentlemen dear. Because if we're all going to do everything, especially in tourism, then let's not be surprised what it's going to come up with for a while, and if this starts before the season, then we'll be amazed at what it looked like at the end of this season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109159	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109160	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Burić, you mentioned the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, and I did this a little while ago and replicated my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. I claim that the Republic of Croatia loses significant resources because of its lack of laws or non-acceptance of the law of the Croatian Democratic Community club because of the economic use of a number of places on the maritime good and also catering facilities whose concession would increase income from both the state and the county, so the cities and municipalities of which are located certain facilities or beaches, coasts, etc. In addition, I would be interested in how much government, how resolute the ministry implements and solves, implements the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. According to the law, more than 100 million square square square square square squares of building land would normally be covered in tourist complexes that would be concentrated, for which a concessionary would be established and then further built, a new investment cycle would be allowed on those facilities. As far as I can see, in the past four years of this government, a very, very small number of surfaces, the location has been resolved or in the process of realization. And that fact prevents large, numerous investments in the hotel sector, in the tourist sector along the Croatian coast. So it would be good if Mr. Assistant Minister in his final address if he mentioned and introduced us to the data of how much of the 100 million square meters in hotel complexes, which the camps realised, how much, for what the area of the concession day is and where it is possible to invest the owners, users, or concessionaires over those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109161	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109162	Thank you very much. As a teammate, Bačić, we as a club of HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Community and you as one of the legislators of this Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports here held and discussed and more or less all agreed but then we were told that we could not accept this law that was good, which offered progress, which offered additional income and which almost everyone was pleased with, almost all of us, will never be all. He was rejected in the way gentlemen of principle will not accept it because you have never accepted any of our laws and it is our turn to wait for ours who is as in the making. We're still here for the fourth year of our term of office, and we haven't seen the draft of that bill. I don't know who saw him, whether he was even working on him anymore. And there's the money, there's the facilities, there's the profits, on the beach by the sea in the sea's seabed, on all the islands, on the coast. And a country that doesn't want to solve it obviously either doesn't know or isn't willing or doesn't care. There's no fourth. Because if they could, I guess they would suggest it. And I don't know how we're going to achieve these strategic goals then, 14 billion revenues in 2020, 14 billion euros from the current 7.28 means for 100% more, 22 thousand new units, 20 thousand new jobs, you can't accomplish if you don't open a space that can somehow be built and put into service. And it all came down to a single hotel complex and they were all there and everyone said here we are working for Croatian tourism and this is an example of how we do well and from Umag to Caftata such destinations there are dozens of gentlemen dear. And everything almost has a problem that doesn't solve itself, and then we're looking for how we're going to reduce it. how we're going to raise taxes, invent new commitments to fill the state budget, and where we have an easy way of doing that is not what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109163	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Boric, it is true that the two of us did not agree on politics and political issues very often, but today is such a day that I have to agree with you on a few important things. First, when you realized that for 4 years we have been waiting for the new Maritime Good Act and that we are doing incredible damage to the Republic of Croatia, I must agree with you that it is a disgrace and absolute irresponsibility. Secondly, when you realized that the bill that was last in circulation before the entry into force of this mandate was better than the current current current current law, I must agree with you. And the third in which I agree is about that provision if I understand you well about the liberalisation of bar conversion into disco bars overnight, putting down power to the local self-government unit and controlling the communal directors. I am in favour of passing a new Household Act, I am a representative of helping the caterers, but I am not in favour of bringing things to absurdity, because the current legislation has made it possible in the good part of the caterers and especially in the season, with the understanding of citizens, to adapt to needs and to offer to tourists. And if that thing leads to absurdities, I'm afraid our offer won't be any more attractive, and we'll put a lot of citizens of this country in a position where they can't have a normal civil quiet life. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109165	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109166	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Baranovic because we who come from these tourist destinations, and we know what noise means, which means when something shakes at two or three in the morning and I'm not against making it impossible in some way. So far, there have been opportunities for municipal commissioners, mayors, to extend some working hours to some facilities. But if we let this go without a control system now, and the control system was almost destroyed when we went into reorganization, that is. a new way of thinking about how it should look like service and inspection if you remember when we rightly warned you weren't doing it we'll get into a situation where everything will fall on the back of a small communal director who won't be able to do anything. And when there's no communal director, then the police will come. The police can and will do so obviously, but it will not create a long-term or long-term order. And that is why this provision needs to be considered and not left to the local self-government units to know exactly who is responsible, who makes decisions and who controls when a decision is made. Because this is how it's gonna be. And as far as maritime goods are concerned, we've said everything more or less, and if this government really doesn't, it's really gonna be unserious if it doesn't give a bill by the end of this year, because there's really the biggest incomes and the biggest money from tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109167	Comrades and colleagues, please be quiet in the hall so we can hear the final word of Deputy Minister of Tourism Mr Douglas Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109168	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed parliamentary representatives. Here I thank you all for this constructive and very extensive debate and I would refer only to a few proposals that we had today, and this is the first of my colleagues Cain's that, what we have made possible in the bill, we have stated that legal entities in their residential and residential areas can carry out catering activities without the need for these facilities to be transferred to business because it is a quiet activity and that such a provision may be in line with the other laws of the other ministries in charge. I must say that we did not have any objections from the competent ministries of others, which means that Article 24(2) does not conflict with these other laws, and I would also point out in the Law on crafts that certain particular activities that can be carried out in housing such as accounting services, consulting, financial services, and various legal services. As regards the review of the municipal fee, we will certainly discuss this with the Ministry of Construction to try to prescribe the obligation to account for the municipal fee on the business premises tariff. Regarding the fact that both amateur sports associations and clubs are allowed to carry out catering activities, i.e. serving meals and drinks, I must admit that we have not received any proposal from any sports association, from any sports club during the debate. But we'll certainly try to consider that suggestion of yours. As regards proposals on working time, we have made it possible in this draft proposal and in the bill that representative bodies of the unit of local self-government can set longer working hours than previously prescribed by law, i.e. from 6 a.m. to midnight. We are here to say that it is very difficult by law to prescribe working time for all units of local self-government both on the coast and on the continent, because we must recognise that each unit of local self-government has some specificity and we believe that the power to determine long-term self-government should nevertheless be transferred to the representative bodies of those units of local self-government because they know best the specificities of their area and we believe that these representative bodies of these local self-government units will take care in which areas will allow longer working time, i.e. where they will create some entertainment zones, all-night business as well as minimum technical conditions that will guide whether the guests have in those areas in accordance with the needs of the guests who live in that area. Regarding the non-compliance with the provision of the obligation to pass master's exams here, I must say that the ministry certainly supports the quality of the profession, that it certainly supports strengthening the competitiveness of our human potential. However, in our law, the Household Activity Act did not specify such an obligation before, but was set out in the Law on crafts, and in public debate we received a proposal from the Croatian Chamber of crafts to make such an obligation to pass the master's examination and regulations. However, given the very content of this master exam, we have found that by removing such an obligation, it does not reduce the overall quality of performing the catering profession because most of the exams contain things and programs that are not even necessary for the purpose of serving meals and drinks. Not even, the component of the exam is not included in this Household Activity Act. But that's why the Law on Labour, Environmental Protection, the Law on crafts is included. The programmes are designed to encourage and improve general knowledge from entrepreneurship, tax, customs, organisational business, plan, investment, market strategies, chamber systems. We simply believe that this programme is not good and that it will not affect the improvement of the quality of staff in catering and tourism. I must certainly point out that the Ministry of Tourism stimulates investment in professional and lifelong education in its programmes and that we will also be intermediaries in the withdrawal of European funds from the social fund that we will later allocate in achieving the greater competitiveness of our human potential in the tourism sector. I would also like to refer to, in fact, to point out that we will soon have in the procedure and a proposal for a new Tourism Service Act that will further liberalise and improve the competitiveness of our tourism as well as all our destinations, the quality of our products and the overall level of service provision in the tourism sector. This year, to look back on the Tourism Development Strategy and insinuation of Mr. Boris, about half a billion euros of investment in the tourism sector will be invested this year. Arrivals and overnights as well as total consumption in tourism are on a continuous rise. The action plans are almost all over, soon we can expect a presentation of all plans. In the first three months of this year, a 20% increase was recorded in the nights, which is an indication that the strategy and the programme of Croatia 365 is very well implemented, and we in the tourism ministry will also affect these legal proposals to improve the competitiveness of our product, which is also going towards achieving the main goal of the strategy that you did not mention, Mr. Boric, which is that Croatia becomes one of the 20 most competitive tourist countries in the world. I will add that yesterday we received information that we have climbed two places on the list of competitiveness of the tourist countries and that just shows that we are in the right direction. And I would not like to comment on the Law on Maritime Goods because it is simply a law that is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, and as far as I have knowledge and information, I can say that this law is at a very high stage and that it will soon be implemented publicly, in fact that a public debate has been held and that it will soon be proposed to the Government and the Parliament. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-08-0.u109169	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do we have a replica? Oh, no? Thank you very much, we don't. He's giving up on the replica. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote a little later. Proposal for a Household Activity Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 833. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. 1. Proposal for a Household Activity Act is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I find that unanimously with 96 votes, no abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
