ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105731	Practice has already been established, please take 10 minutes off on the government's initiative to take over the founding rights of the university north. That's where the stuff that the public should be informed about happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105732	Another hand, honourable representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105733	Cain was before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105734	However, to the dear God, it is the order of the Croatian representatives. A fellow Caine's third. The same university?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105735	No, not the university. You don't know if you know Mr. President in Buzet should build a compost by breaking all European directives. [[Well, that's why.]] So, I'm just going to call Mr. Dragonovic if he's going to do any surveillance and stop that practice. And at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105736	Thank you, don't introduce a new practice from the bench yet. You want to talk about Istra compostana, Istria compostana. ... [[Intruder: compostana.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But also the respected representative Boro Grubisic who is the topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105737	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I've been correct, so I let Cain speak of the compostani before me. I am not talking about the compost, but about the problem that is being a little quiet in Croatia, which is a quiet, crawling use of cannabinoids, drugs and in connection with smart shops in the Republic of Croatia that sell it, and we have one fatal case in Zagreb of which no one in the Croatian Parliament has talked about it in public either. So please take 10 minutes off about that. So smart shops and drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105738	I'd rather leave an hour open now... But first, to be in the assembly of at least half of the club members, those looking for the club's name first to show that half of them are in the club so they can hold a club session. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Cain can because there are only three representatives at the club. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Grubisic, applies to all MPs on the left and right, they are representatives here, and which political option they represent will they say when they arrive for the pay phone. So since the standard is set, we'll give it a break, 9.45. There are three topics on the agenda, three clubs, free assembly and a press conference. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is respected Nikola Vuljanic, a problem at the University of the North.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105740	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The government held a public debate on the acquisition of founding rights, so-called universities north into their own hands. Fundamental rights also mean founding obligations, i.e. the payment of that institution. In order to understand what this is about, I'm going to try in a minute or two just to give a brief history of what's going on around the founding of that university. It all began for a wonderful miracle not in the north but in the south of Split. Former Minister Primorac gave on the last but literally the last day of his term of office a pass to his friend Ninoslav Pavic of the EPH for the establishment of what was called a media university, which had nothing to do with the media, and with the university even less because the university according to our laws must cover three scientific areas, it must have everything it has to have. None of that existed. They got that paper. The wise EPH then founded a daughter’s company to whom the paper was transferred and the daughter’s company had nothing, no property, nothing, no activity, no activity, other than that paper, and a license. They figured it was worth some money. After a few years when it was seen that it would not work in Split and it did not work they sold, sold literally for 4 million it seems to me that the company's daughter to the town of Koprivnica. So they sold it as a burgian. They couldn't sell that to a burgian, they'd have to bring in a master who's got a Burgian exam. They sold it nicely and the media university was suddenly in Koprivnica. In conclusion that they cannot, and cannot, explain in particular why the town of the size of Koprivnica cannot establish a university, they have joined a university in Varazdin that had no conditions for the university, neither today nor will they have any future, they have joined them. On the one hand, they brought in a pass, these brought in one quite large number of people and activities at the level of cod, so at the level of pre-graduate study, what the university is doing and they put it all on the pile and concluded that there is a university north. That's what they called that new institution. In the meantime, a few dozen million kunas were spent to organize all of this together, to pay, to edit space, to not know everything. And they also concluded together the Koprivnica-križevci County and the town of Koprivnica and the town of Varazdin and the Varazdin County that it is an expensive sport, as it is, the university is an expensive sport, and that it would be best to transfer it to the expense of the state. So two initiatives came to establish a university that the government rejected among other things and launched its initiative to accept what was founded under its own wing, so to take over the founding rights of what was founded and not yet obtaining a permanent pass. This stops and prevents any further valorisation procedure, whether there are conditions, whether there are enough professors, whether there is enough space, whether there is enough equipment, and on the other hand, one cost that is falsely shown 10 million kuna per year is imposed on the state budget. 10 million kuna per year, half the cost of a mediocre university in Zagreb. Not universities, colleges. Colleges cost between 25, 30, 40 million kunas, depending on the profession. I know that because I worked at a college like that and ran it, ran it, and I know how things work. So the 10 million written in that bill of law that passed the public hearing are a lie. It'll cost us 50 million, and by quality, it won't be at a good high school. Well, now, if this House fits and this House accepts it, I'm taking off my hat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105741	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, good morning. We should continue to work in the plenary session of 17 sessions in accordance with the established agenda, but already in the practice of the Croatian Parliament, and now more intensively and more intensively, one representative hand was raised, so let's hear it. Dear Representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105757	Practice has already been established, please take 10 minutes off on the government's initiative to take over the founding rights of the university north. That's where the stuff that the public should be informed about happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105758	Another hand, honourable representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105759	Cain was before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105760	However, to the dear God, it is the order of the Croatian representatives. A fellow Caine's third. The same university?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105761	No, not the university. You don't know if you know Mr. President in Buzet should build a compost by breaking all European directives. [[Well, that's why.]] So, I'm just going to call Mr. Dragonovic if he's going to do any surveillance and stop that practice. And at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105762	Thank you, don't introduce a new practice from the bench yet. You want to talk about Istra compostana, Istria compostana. ... [[Intruder: compostana.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But also the respected representative Boro Grubisic who is the topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105763	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I've been correct, so I let Cain speak of the compostani before me. I am not talking about the compost, but about the problem that is being a little quiet in Croatia, which is a quiet, crawling use of cannabinoids, drugs and in connection with smart shops in the Republic of Croatia that sell it, and we have one fatal case in Zagreb of which no one in the Croatian Parliament has talked about it in public either. So please take 10 minutes off about that. So smart shops and drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105764	I'd rather leave an hour open now... But first, to be in the assembly of at least half of the club members, those looking for the club's name first to show that half of them are in the club so they can hold a club session. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Cain can because there are only three representatives at the club. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Grubisic, applies to all MPs on the left and right, they are representatives here, and which political option they represent will they say when they arrive for the pay phone. So since the standard is set, we'll give it a break, 9.45. There are three topics on the agenda, three clubs, free assembly and a press conference. It's 9:35 p.m. And on behalf of the Boro Grubisic Club, drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105766	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for giving me your word to say something, and I would very much say scary in the Republic of Croatia and not come across a sufficient media echo. According to the writings, not newspapers, but mental health services, prevention and out of hospital treatment of addiction of the Institute of Public Health of the Ship-Posavina County, but also other public health services, threatens the fact that in our psychiatric departments and emergency medical care people come because of violent or aggressive behaviour, psychotic reactions or with state of consciousness disorders. For what? Because they enjoyed the so-called. Smart or legal drugs from the store, so-called smart shops where synthetic drugs are sold as bath salts, space fresheners, plant fertilisers even, jewelry cleaners or research chemicals. Here in this form is actually offered at a small door, we actually legalized the use of drugs that are not on the list of legal drugs or the Ivan Vučetić Institute, and then there are actually no sanctions against them, according to the sellers of such drugs because they are drugs produced in a synthetic manner and are not in the list of those of last year. So usually minors and children under the counter receive funds in this form of powder, presprised or pre-spent grasses and so-called preparations. Cathinone and cannabinoids that have the same effects on human health or mainly young people as marijuana and heroin. We also had a death in the city of Zagreb 15-year-old and we have not talked or talked about it until now even though we had a chance here, but it was not the topic of the Ministry of Health. But there was also the minister of police, the interior minister, and I can say that according to the Institute of Public Health, this case is very difficult to prevent. A decision has also been made to close smart stores in the Republic of Croatia, but those according to news reports continue to operate under the counter, under the counter. So if we do this measure completely and apply this measure of closing smart shops there is a way through the Internet, there is a way through social networks that these resources with synthetic cathinos and cannabinoids are still sold. In Europe, too, there is this monster and Europe is fighting a struggle, a fierce struggle in connection with this. Mostly in the Netherlands and some other countries. I therefore appeal to parliamentary representatives and also to those of the government, so the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the health inspection of the Ministry of Health to fight even harder and stronger. Because not only do young people poison themselves with these drugs but it increases the inflow of children's health institutions in psychosis, children with consciousness disorders, and that health care also involves doctors and pediatricians and interns, school medicine and even pathologists. Bathing powder you have to buy which is used in two ways. It's one thing to melt, and the needle stabs into the vein, so intravenously, and the other thing to do is to sniff out the powder. The effects are exactly the same as sniffing heroin. Weed bags that are sprayed with synthetic cannabioids are also rolled around like cigarettes and smoke. It has the same effect as marijuana that is not legal in the Republic of Croatia, heroin or marijuana. We have not passed a law on legalisation or free use of this marijuana or for those medical purposes in malignant patients, in malignancies to ease the suffering and pain of patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105767	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105768	Well, thank you, too. I won't last any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105769	Okay, thank you very much. So, again to the public, I'd say two things. About the University of the North, this topic is in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and nothing has been prejudged to the Parliament, and it will be discussed when we get the government's opinion, but we have an announcement of another representative or we have already received a bill, and we will all, in accordance with the procedure, process in the Croatian Parliament, discuss it and decide. So this is an early warning tied to the Parliament bar. Secondly, I'm not going to say anything about Cain and the subject again. Regarding drug abuse, the warning is good but it would be better to refer it to the competent ministry as an agent, thus confirming what you said you were involved in preventing drug abuse. Thank you very much. Now we continue on the established agenda. ... Go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105770	So if someone were to destroy your assets in that way, destroy the future of one city, and then I guess you'd burn too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u105771	My colleague Cain, did you ask for a word? ... Who and what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't do that, I beg you nicely! We continue to work on the established agenda. There's a 3 on the agenda. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 790 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. So does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to further explain the proposal? Unfortunately, the minister was there, but he had to leave because the cabinet session started, so Deputy Minister of Agriculture, respected Snježana Spain, will bring us into the problem of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107036	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Representatives and Representatives. The Agricultural Land Act applicable from 11 April 2013 is in force. Amendments and additions to this law intend to regulate the following: the procedure for the lease of unbuilt construction land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which, under the applicable capacity of agricultural land, is regulated by the deadline of 60 days for granting consent to the State Office for the Management of State Property. Otherwise, it's thought to be the agreement of the day. The regulation of cases in which the ministry in the process of adopting spatial plans gives its opinion, i.e. the consent of the holder, that agricultural land owned by the State may be exceptionally planned for another non-agricultural economic function. The previous opinion on this is given to the Ministry by the Agricultural Land Agency. The regulation of the amount of compensation for the change in the purpose of agricultural land located outside the boundaries of the construction area and the spatial plan has changed its purpose and remains outside the construction area, depending on whether P1 or P2 farm land is particularly valuable or not. Application of the exemption provisions for the change of the purpose of agricultural land and of the legislation of illegally built buildings in accordance with a specific regulation. It is proposed that the Agency establish the right to build agricultural buildings and the right to serve on agricultural land owned by the State on a proposal from an interested person. In addition to making a public call for the lease of the cadastral particle championships, which make up the production technology unit of up to 100 hectares, it is also proposed to call for a production technology unit consisting of one cadastral particle whose area is greater than 100 hectares in order to avoid the obligation to land such cadastral particles and thus additional costs. The invitation to tender may determine the type of use for which the agricultural land owned by the State is leased in view of the specific agro-climate potential of a given region, the multi-annual plantation in that area, or agricultural production traditionally in a given area, to ensure the continuation of existing agricultural production. A public lease call may be made for a cadastral particle on which a country-owned agricultural building is built, or for that particle and adjacent particles, which make up the production technology as a whole. In order to facilitate the placing of agricultural land in office, it is proposed that, in addition to calling for a public lease and renting for ponds, when a local self-government unit and an interested natural or legal person delivers a request to the public call agency, the Agency may decide to make a public call if it itself has obtained the necessary documentation to be made available. The amendment of the components to be evaluated in the economic programme is proposed, the criteria for achieving the highest score in determining the right of the championship for persons participating in a public call for lease and lease for fish ponds are amended. It is proposed to abolish the water compensation for fish farms owned by the State in order to relieve economic operators of their business in view of the obligation to pay and to rent fish stocks. By removing that fee, the tenants will be able to reroute those funds to additional employment, investment in the reconstruction and modernisation of ponds, investment in technology and the introduction of quality management techniques, which will ultimately result in the production and growth of freshwater fish and exports. The possibility of transfer of the rights and obligations of the tenant under the lease agreement and the lease for the fishermen to another person so that no contract is to be terminated for agricultural land and a new invitation to tender with the aim of continuing agricultural production on that land is not required. It wasn't a case until now, so for example, The transfer of land from father to son was considered a sublet. The provisions of the agricultural land law in the possession of a state that is not in the agricultural production function have been amended and it has grown several years of growth, its lease is now reduced in proportion to the cost of decommissioning and, if the cost of decommissioning is greater than the leaser's rent, it has no right to recover the difference in the cost of decommissioning but is not available to the wood mass which remains after deforestation, since it is proposed that the Croatian forests, in accordance with the specific regulations on forests, take over the same of the tenants, transport and dispose of them. The income obtained by selling wood is shared between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Forests where the income from the basis of the lease will be negligible or will not be due to the change of the lease with the cost of deforestation of land. The provisions of the Law on the lease of common pastures owned by the State have been amended in such a way as to give the common pasture for leases and cooperatives organised for the purpose of common pastures whose members are owners of livestock and are registered in the register of farmers. The obligation of the tenant of the common pasture to enter into an agreement on the use of common pasture which has been leased to them within 30 days of the date of the conclusion of the lease agreement to define the mutual rights and obligations of the tenants resulting from the use of common pasture or so on. pasture row. By amending the provisions on the replacement of agricultural land owned by a state outside the production technology unit, it may be replaced for agricultural land owned by legal or natural persons of approximately the same value and located in the area of the same or neighbouring unit of local self-government for the purpose of more economic exploitation and creation of more favourable conditions for agricultural production. It is proposed to amend the provisions on the exceptional sale of agricultural land owned by a state direct contract in such a way that the possibility of selling cadastral particles owned by a country bordering the land of the applicant can be used only on one occasion and to delete the exceptional sale of land owned by the State for particles for which the documentation for the construction of agricultural facilities has been obtained and where it is carried out to another economic function other than agricultural. However, the exceptional sale of land owned by the State by a direct contract is proposed in the case where the Republic of Croatia is co-owner with the applicant and the co-owner part of the Republic of Croatia is less than the co-owner's share of the applicant because there is a great interest for such sale and the property legal relations of former co-owners and the problems associated with co-ownership communities are also resolved. A new provision is also proposed under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a decision on the sale of agricultural land owned by a country for particles located outside the production and technology units whose size in the continental region is not greater than one hectare, and in the Adriatic region of 0.2 to achieve socio-economic and strategic objectives in agriculture, and the Government's decision is implemented by means of a public call for sale. It is proposed that the agricultural land owned by the State is given for use without a public call and where the unit of the regional self-government other than the Republic of Croatia is the founder, the scientific and educational institutions in the area of agriculture, the penitentiary and the institutions that are in need of agricultural land in the exercise of their activities. It is proposed to provide exceptional land leases owned by a state without a public call for a period of 10 years to legal and natural persons engaged in livestock farming provided they do not have, and this lease would result in a minimum area of agricultural land prescribed according to the number of conditional throats with a fee of double initial lease, and the award decision shall be taken by the Agency at their request. These provisions will apply from the entry into force of this law until 8 May this year to allow farmers to register new agricultural areas in a direct payment system for which the relevant EU rules are prescribed until 31 May. It is proposed to prescribe the breakdown of the co-ownership community on agricultural land and to propose that, on the date of entry into force of this law, the programmes available to agricultural land owned by the State should cease to apply, given the establishment of an information system containing data on cadastral land particles owned by the State. And accordingly, the Agency is authorised to find replacement agricultural land owned by the State in cases where, by virtue of the law, it is not possible to return to ownership of land which has been taken away from them on the basis of the criteria laid down by the Regulation by the Government. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the text of the final proposal, certain differences arised as a result of respecting the views made during the first reading. In the case of an economic programme other than the resources of commercial companies, the resources of the OPG and crafts are also valued in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia. In addition, a period of one year for the reduction of agricultural land owned by a non-agricultural country has been replaced by a period of two years and a provision has been added to exempt the tenant from paying the lease if the costs of the decommissioning are higher than the lease. The proposed provision under which the Agricultural Land Agency may conclude a temporary use contract with natural or legal persons on their request for agricultural land owned by a country which is in the function of agricultural production and is not owned by natural or legal persons has been deleted. A provision was added on the timetable and the purpose of the use of funds obtained from the sale by direct contract when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on the sale in such a way that the revenues of the budget of the local self-government unit or the City of Zagreb are in the area of agricultural land and are intended exclusively for the implementation of agricultural land co-financing and co-financing of the activities of the programme, projects and other documents necessary for the implementation of support measures under the Rural Development Programme, which are not co-financed through support measures. In this way, units of local self-government will be allowed to direct revenue in the preparation of projects for rural infrastructure measures. A provision on the completion of the procedures for the provision of agricultural land owned by the State has been amended in such a way as to ensure that the lease and lease procedures are completed in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Law on Agricultural Land and that no award decision has been taken in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act remove obstacles that slow the process of availability of agricultural land and introduce new solutions that ensure faster availability of these land and put into operation so that agricultural producers can exercise the right to pay out support under the new EU common agricultural policy system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107037	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Seven replicas have been reported for your presentation. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107038	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, first of all, I would say that this proposal is significantly better than the one in the first reading, and here's the opposition that can praise something, however, raises two questions. One thing is, why did that first proposal have to look what it looked like, on the one hand, unknowingly, on the other hand, hitting large companies and harming the O.P.G.s? But I'm glad that all those objections and objections here and farmers were taken into account and that a lot was fixed. It's not even far from what the farmers were looking for, and so are we, but it's certainly better. What's being imposed as a question here and what I'd like to hear as someone who's not in that area are two things. One thing is whether it will help to reduce this tragic depopulation of rural areas of Croatia, in fact the white death of particularly rural parts of Croatia on the one hand and on the other hand whether it will help to change this catastrophic situation in which Croatia is related to agricultural products where we literally all import from onions and potatoes to apples and pears and whether it will really be a step forward. I repeat, the version is better, it's not what you're looking for, but it's certainly a positive step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107039	Thank you, Your Honor. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister, Snow White Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107040	Thank you very much, here are everyone who participated in making proposals and public debates, and we tried to find a compromise because sometimes the proposals were difficult. About the fact that the first proposal was something worse I'd just like to say, some figures, mathematics is more convincing. So related to the availability of state agricultural land in the last 13 years 48% of land has been made available, 52% of land has not been given. And that is why it decided to change the concept, taking into account Croatia's entry into the European Union, and that a large part of the agricultural producers have only 3 years of state support, primarily the groundless, or those who lack land. And in this bill, we have put a land assignment without a public call, first of all to cattlemen, because otherwise, if we don't give them land, they will no longer be able to exercise the right to encourage. And that was our priority precisely for supporting cattlemen and livestock production. And related to imports, Croatia has not been self-sufficient for many years, except in the production of cereals, so wheat and corn, not in any other, I apologize to Mandarin, and in no other production we do not produce enough for our own needs for a very long time. The rural development programme will be optimistic, the ministry will come out very soon with the number of projects received. We are all pleasantly surprised and positive climate related to the possibility of using European funds can be our only way to get better times in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107041	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107042	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy, I would agree with Vice President Reiner, this is a much better proposal than before. If the existing law was a snail, then this one should be a frog's jump. But there's still a lot of open questions, at least for me. First one nomotechnical thing, now I'm talking like a lawyer, when you change 45 regulations of law, then it's a new law. Then the sooner it should come out with a refined text, not that farmers are wandering around looking for changes and additions, etc. However, what I would draw attention to is this competition, or call without competition for cattlemen. In my view, this should have been a little bit better regulated, or at least regulated by the regulation in which it would be shared. The question is, you have companies that are now going to get a certain amount of land without competition, and what if they fail, what if they change their activity, so they no longer deal with livestock rather than for example. Peradarism, why do they need so much land? So these are things that I think should be regulated by at least a rule that should be passed at the same time as this law or within really 8 days, even though these deadlines are very, very short. However, serious questions are raised, and they need to be answered in order to avoid some confusion. I also welcome this idea of these small plots, selling small plots. It's a great thing because these parcels, because they're practically empty, are not functional. But the same question arises, I saw it in. an explanation that only one sentence would be given to local units of funds from that lease, where, who guarantees that it will be? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107043	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107044	Well, here I would just like to say that part of the provision is to comply with other laws. For example. The right of construction and the right to serve on agricultural land is also due to changes in spatial planning and construction, because, unfortunately, so far on state agricultural land, there has been no way to build a farm so that we also had problems with olivers and winemakers, as well as with other agricultural producers, to rent state agricultural land and then cannot invest in some building now via EU funds. So that's how we handle it. And some other things were consistent with other laws, and we will make sure that as soon as possible a purified version of course goes. About the rules and the companies, so we did a very detailed analysis. It's about 10500 farms that lack state agricultural land. And we know exactly what units of local self-government, or counties, are missing. What we will take care of is that the contract is very clear if anyone will sell cattle on the basis of which they have obtained the right then they will lose land, lose the contract, lose their rights to incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107045	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, 3rd Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107046	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, ma'am, Deputy, it's a great honor to have good intentions and, as they say, I'd like to do it afterwards. I am one of those who advocates related production but, of course, the equality of the OPG. I also witness this in my environment where people on a small surface give significant results. But I didn't make it up, so in the entire agriculturally advanced Europe, so the country has to, is considered a local resource, and it's all done in that sense to put priority on the domicile population. That's, that's gotta stand. And in this sense, it enters the eyes especially this moment without a public call, an award without a public call, and I read here, and I want to point to a problem that will lead to an unequal situation for the family's agricultural economy. According to that calculation, it's no problem to calculate that there are 141,000 acres, there are 50 larger ones, these big ones would get 1900, let's say, a hectare, these little ones just 2.5. So how are we going to keep that rural space, how? Here I say with all that they want to work on that space and preserve great, every honor of good production, but how we're going to save it first, how we're going to make production. So if he can only win he's in a simple irregular match. And the other thing, it's not clearly defined what a cattleman is, which is a cattleman, is he who imports those calves from Romania or is he who has a cow, a calf, he produces milk, and we're already producing 500 million liters less. Please, nice. In that part it requires answers, very clear clarifications, and of course it does not allow the OPGs to be discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107047	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107048	So the honourable representative, therefore, without a public call, means that the OPGs and all those who have no land have priority and that there will be no points and there will be no additional criteria. What defines cattlemen is the entry into the unique register of domestic animals run by the Croatian Agricultural Agency under the Law on livestock farming and agricultural producers know very well, therefore, that they must register the animals that are marked. On the basis of these data and data, the Agency for Payments on entered agricultural land shall calculate how many of those holdings are missing land and how much they will be missing in order to exercise their right to incentives. Therefore, all will apply the same criteria. These are cattle farmers in the Republic of Croatia, and priority OPGs are those whose country is missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107049	Thank you very much. The fourth replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107050	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, I will join all those who have said that this law of course has a lot of improvements and we must admit that all the members of the Committee on Agriculture have contributed to that, of course, to the president of our committee, who we have very much advocated and gave very much initiative. Some initiatives are not respected, and I really think that in some future period we will change when we come to power, or we will unite all these changes of yours, but we will do more. But let me just ask you a question right now, it's about ponds. I'm interested in ponds when a pond is placed in a concession or in a lease who controls, what Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt said, who will control that production and whether or not those who have taken the lease and engaged in aquaculture will. And the second is about when you talked about withdrawing funds from the European Union, and it is also about Vice-President Reiner. In particular, about 750 applications worth very good projects and only a billion and 300 000 kuna have arrived for you now for the 4.1 sub-measure, however, there is 300 million dollars in money. That's kind of a 1/3. They're not in the budget. Rural development funds, as promised, should have been resolved in early 2014, but we know that 370 remarks have come to the programme. This moment isn't yet, so we're still not on track for these 337m euros to pull out of the envelope, only in the fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107051	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107052	Well, that's the same part of the problem, I'm sorry, I just thought I'd end up with a comma, and I'm decent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107053	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107054	Thank you very much. I only hope about some of the changes that you have mentioned that you will not take this land to cattle farmers who receive land without a public invitation because we are trying to assign the country to them in 2015 so that they have the right to encourage them by 2020. If they lose land, they lose the right to incentive. So that was the point. Regarding the ponds, I'd just like to point out that by 2014. The Republic of Croatia did not have a register of freshwater ponds and we did not know how many ponds we had. We have made a cadastre of ponds and found that there are 19, but due to a large number of parafiscal charges, therefore both rents and any fees, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia are only two fish stocks in operation and for this very reason, and this legislation we propose to abolish compensation, one of the fees to reduce this pressure and to ensure that the potential of Croatia has and was once positive in the production of freshwater fish again and with the possibility of using the funds of the operational programme for fishing. Regarding the rural development programme, I said yesterday was the last day of the application and we are satisfied and surprised by the number of projects that have been reported, so the farmers themselves are aware of the possibilities and despite the misinformation and what they were told they were brave, they applied. And what they are told, so the programme is in principle approved, all comments are closed and what is said by the Republic of Croatia and, of course, by the European Commission will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107055	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107056	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In my replica, I don't know what time the question is between you and us and the representatives and the members of the government. By how long we'll get laws that won't make a fiscal impact assessment. We here in this House have passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act with one goal only that parliamentary deputies who cannot look at the entire financial effect of individual laws have information on what it means for the state budget, which means for the budget of the units of local self-government. It says here in one and a half sentences for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. That's genius! There's a lot to be done. Whether this law under the Fiscal Responsibility Act will have to mean whether it will bring any additional revenue, whether it will directly or indirectly encourage employment or something. You must, in the light of the law which changes 60% of articles, indicate the fiscal effect, because there are too many laws we have passed in this House and that is why we have the deficit that we have. Why did we pass the Fiscal Responsibility Act? And among other things, the coercion of those who actually get the resources of the state budget to spend them in the way that this House has approved them. And on the other hand, those who propose the laws must present to parliamentarians and the Croatian public the financial effect of that law. However, when you look at this law, it is said that honey and milk will flow in Croatian agriculture, and it says it does not need a drop. Well, I don't really see that honey and milk can flow to Croatian agriculture without getting lip. So let's not fool ourselves. The law must be complete and complete. The fact that you wrote that you will meet someone's needs, and you don't say who needs to secure the funds, you put it in front of the wall of someone who needs a budget tomorrow regardless of whether it's a local budget or a state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107057	The integration of bees and cows has long been seen to flow honey and milk. You know that, '65. years of economic reform. Okay. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107058	Therefore, the honourable representative honestly and openly, so the Agricultural Land Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture did not have records of the contracts concluded, of the amounts of the leases. The information system was established in September 2014 and only a week ago we ended up collecting all contracts and concessions and rents and sales and established a base. As regards the assessment of the financial impact, we have put in place what it is, therefore, no additional funding is needed for the employment and functioning of the Agricultural Land Agency. And of course, regarding both the state budget and everything else, there will be evaluations when the base is rechecked with both local self-government units and all those who have achieved funding from the lease of concessions and even from sales. The analyses are ongoing and are also related to sales. So we're going to set up a base and then we're going to be able to get quality data out. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107059	Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107060	Mr. President, I expected you to react. So, thank you for your honesty to the deputy lady. However, she admitted that the law was not submitted to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So she said that simply the parameters that were the basis for the adoption of this law did not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107061	Comrade Shuker, I wish you'd warned me about what I did wrong. I guess confessing isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Confession isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, somehow I can't get the impression that this article 26th Amendment or 51st. The law relating to a direct award without a public tender for cattle farmers will not have a very good effect because the law is not set regionally, because it means the same in the whole area of the Republic of Croatia and because I have a feeling that some who are faster, who have a good operation, who can, of course, prepare more strongly to use this law and who, in the wild west, is going to rush on their pony to the ground very quickly, will flag and these others no longer stand a chance. It would be very important and important, and I ask you to make it clear that we want to see if the target is a cow or a bull's-eye. Is our goal the factory is a perfect food, milk factory, or is our goal that imported and then imported, after a year or a few months of sale? If we aim for a cow, then we aim to preserve life in the village of what fellow Milinkovic was talking about, and this law should actually solve it, preserve life in the country. So the cow should be the object of that main object we're focused on. This is how I'm afraid there's gonna be a problem. Therefore, I would ask that all the countries be made public, that all those in need be made public and that every person who gets the land directly be made public. '99. The year has been done several nonsense related to such direct assignments of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107063	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107064	Your Honor, I'd just say that earlier this kind of analysis was done at the production level we wouldn't be where we are, that 48% of the land was just put into service. Unfortunately, we also have cases of individual agricultural producers and loans being granted, they were building farms, and today they do not have state agricultural land. Why didn't they run an analysis before, why didn't they talk to the agricultural producers before? I don't know the answer to that question, but it's our job to help these people once and allow them to get to the ground and to exercise the right to encourage that they can finally produce and deal with agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107065	Thank you, too. 7. Replica, respected representative of Šima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107066	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mrs. Spanish, colleagues and colleagues. You can imagine that by 31.21.1997, it was an obligation to apply for the return of taken-off areas, agricultural land that the Yugoslav system took away from people. And to this day that process of return is not over. 31.12.1997, and we are today in 2015. All municipalities and all cities have made a plan for the availability of agricultural land where they must have taken into account those return quotas, rent quotas, sales quotas and concession quotas. Today it happens that this process is not over. You are not the only one in the Ministry of Agriculture who is in charge of this part, you give consent to programmes but you can also run the State Attorney's Office and the Offices of the State Administration on the ground that these injustices, that these people are finally being compensated to give their country or as the return plan provides for finally obtaining. And the other problem I saw in the field, which is Nature Park "Lonjsko Polje". It says exactly in the law that there's allowed to be shepherding, cattle, pigs, cows, sheep, etc. However, the problem of the real people who have taken up hunting grounds and now there is a problem in the field. It says pasture has been allowed for centuries, and these have paid concessions for hunting grounds, and there are major problems, someone may get hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107067	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107068	Regarding the obligation of return, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for this part, but I would take this opportunity to say that regarding the programmes that were approved earlier in the tendering process it is determined that the property-legal parts are not right. Therefore, agreement was given on the programmes and the solution of the cadastrian particles was not made on certain units of local self-government. About Nature Park "Lonjsko polje" i.e. for pastures and meadows precisely these changes of the law in Croatia for the first time in 20 years and a few years, farmers will be entitled to use these meadows and pastures and get the right to incentives that were not enabled in all this time behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107069	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I have an obligation, one request to tell you. I ask representatives and MPs who say that when they come to power they will change some law that even rhetorically is not true, and that would be the usurpation of the right of the Croatian Parliament because only the Parliament can change the law and only the Parliament... Nothing is understood, not even rhetorically correct. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, it denies both the freedom and the right of parliamentary representatives to participate in the decision-making process with their own responsibility. Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committee, want to present reports on the final draft law? It is. The chairman of the board, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107070	Thank you, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, Director, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Report on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, P.Z. No. 790. At the 57th session held on 25 March 2015, the Agricultural Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 18 March 2015. The debate on that draft law was carried out by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and Director of the Agricultural Land Agency participated in the debate. The opening argument was made by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Proposer's representative, stressing that in the final proposal for a law, the Proposer had incorporated part of the proposal and the objections made during the debate on the draft law. The final proposal for a law is complemented by Article 26 in a way that the funds realised by the sale of direct agricultural land owned by the State become revenue from the budget of the unit of local self-government in which the agricultural land is located. The purpose of these funds is to cover the cost of agricultural land co-financing and co-financing of the programme, projects and documents for the implementation of support measures under the rural development programme 2014 to 2020. The debate highlights the concern that the right of the championship to call for the lease of agricultural land will be determined by the canal of the 12th final draft law amending Article 30. The agricultural land law puts family farms in an unfavourable position. It warns of the need to reduce the number of points the economic programme holds in the overall score. The applicant's representative pointed out that the Ministry of Agriculture will, by means of a regulation on the form and manner of the evaluation of the economic programme for the use of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia and whose proposal will be available on the web portal of the Ministry of Agriculture, determine the components of the evaluation of the economic programme. The components of the economic programme would ensure an additional score for beginners, for farmers who grow indigenous breeds and varieties, for farmers of machine rings hives, for farmers of agricultural production. The proposal for a regulation on the evaluation of the economic programme will be held in a public debate for 2 weeks, which is of course for us. The Proposer stressed that this way of pointing the components of the economic programme is a clear indicator of the decision of the legislator to protect and strengthen the family's agricultural economies. The debate also highlights the view that the proposer in the final draft law should limit the number of hectares that can be given to a particular user to be made available in respect of the lease of state-owned agricultural land owned by the state without a public call proposed by Article 26 of the final proposal of the law highlighted the concern of abuse of the situation of the proposed article. The applicant rejected the possibility of abuse of the article in question, stressing that the right to rent without making a public call would be decided by the basis of the merger of data from the single register of domestic animals. The Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Agency for Agricultural Land. By joining these data, the Agency for Agricultural Land and any agricultural producer will have information on the quantity of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia on which they can exercise the right to lease under the provisions of Article 26. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act, with a majority of votes of 7 votes and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107071	Thank you very much, esteemed board president. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to the Independent Left-wing Club and the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107072	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister Mrs. Spanish with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues often when debated and when, firstly, when the Government explains the bill or when someone explains the report, it seems to me that we have read the wrong laws or that we live entirely in some other countries. Just four years ago, hundreds of laws were read, and when I observe how these laws are implemented, I often regret raising my hand for those laws. Not because I think they're bad or they're catastrophic, some are bad, but because they don't apply, and we as a Parliament that has all the powers of those that we don't apply, we don't do that. If you remember here Mr. Jakovina on the right was sitting, I remember that a little less than three years ago, it seems to me that it was 6 months ago in 2012, and then we were talking about the allocation of agricultural land, and then we looked at the way in which the commissions will be drawn up to assign land and we opposed the opposition to doing it centrally, to actually exclude the domestic population or farmers, to exclude the representatives of local self-government from having a significant impact on the assignment. That's what's happening. When I talked about preparing for this topic with people who are concerned with this topic so that not all reading from paper and often going to farmers not to Međimurje but to visit Slavonia, talk to them to see what pains they face, and I wondered if they are now with these improvements, because we know that there has been a stalemate, that some remarks have been respected, whether they are satisfied, most of them said that it was only cosmetic adjustments that what is the basic pain still stands. I am sorry that there is no Minister Jakovina, they say they will come back later, but I will no longer have the opportunity except in replicas with him to pollemise, then he said that within a few months when all this is established, when the rules are passed, the land that is owned by the state will be assigned, that land. Now I'm going to tell you how much land has been divided since the minister promised to split everything into sixteen. In 2013, 474 not thousands of 474 hectares were allocated, in 2014 1442 hectares, all in total between 1000 and 1900 hectares of land was divided. This means when we look at 1900 acres to the total area that it is, it's somewhere it's all official data, according to data if official data cheats then I cheat because there's no other data, no farmers of other data, somewhere around 300 thousand hectares is a state-owned non-divided country, a country that can be divided. It turns out 1900 acres that we don't have a Slavonic plain, that we don't have a Panon Valley, but we have a Sahara because that land is empty, that land no one needs. And even if we had a desert, the Israelites in that desert would make oasis, bring water and plant something. But what are we doing? Nothing. Before in the replicas of the distinguished deputy minister there were several good instructions, but one was actually here on the trail of Mr. Hrg, which I aim at agriculture, do we even know what we want with agriculture? It's our goal of mixing, and everything that comes down to it, it's all about mixing. The farmers tried to explain to me what the catch was. You know that there are large meat producers, food that neither produce food nor produce meat, nor produce milk, these are large importers. They're importing cattle and importing food, and so far they haven't been paved by agricultural land. Since we have entered the EU and since there are some EU rules, they will now need people who have 8500, for example, had one figure of 8500 head, only a few 40 acres of land, and should have several thousand hectares of land. And they shall receive the land. And what will they do on that land? If anyone knows, they will produce food for cattle or produce other types of agricultural production for export, and will continue to import food for the feeding of cattle. What's going on? This is another alloy of corruption. This is still as if we wanted to say that we are on social state paper, but we, gentlemen dear, want to support only big ones, is this the law again for big ones. Why? So 1/3 of the land available predicts that it will be given to a small group of 40, 50 people or companies, and 2/3 will receive 48000 farmers of the OPG. Now imagine that disproportionateness. The other thing, which is a big problem and my colleagues were saying in replicas, which is that the advantage of the country's assignment doesn't have a domicile population, so if I have good connections and I'm good with the minister then I'm going to hit it and I'm going to get the best country in Slavonia, and I'm going to pee that flag like someone said before, and I'm going to stick that flag, I'm going to narrow it down, and I'm going to get that country. Who's estimating that? Some moral people. I don't believe that. Because everything that's proven so far, we're a country where 1/3 of citizens live below the poverty line 1/3, we're a country where children in schools starve, we're a country where older people don't have to pay their bills for food, and we're also a country where there's a lot of absurdity at this point, and you're going to find it very difficult to tell you how unprocessable the surface is, is estimated to be half the unprocessable surface, one that can be processed. We don't produce enough vegetables, and we could produce enough vegetables for our own needs and for export. We don't produce enough fruit except for this mandarin, and we can produce enough fruit for ourselves and for export. We don't make enough milk, and we could produce. We don't make enough meat, and we could produce meat. What's the catch? The catch is that the import lobby still has all the cards in its hands and it shares those cards. This law continues to prefer the great and still this is the country of Mr. Todorovic, Tedeschi and others. That's what they predict is that one handful of people will have everything, and the other will fight for the crumbs, the way the agricultural land is distributed, that's what I'm talking about. And even if the Slavonic plain had been turned into sand, and for some, for many farmers, the sand bar would have been used by the builders, but we also destroyed the building. And probably if it was just sand, we'd be importing sand because some of the tycoon on sand imports would make as much as they make. All this stuff that we import, and we're one of the biggest food importers, given the number of residents we once produced. And now the question is we have two single things in Croatia that are unquestionable. It is, we have a beautiful Adriatic, we have a land for which all the agricultural countries of Europe would cry out. We have two things that are safe, two things that stand between us, which the believers will tell us God has given us. And how do we treat it? We don't know what we're going to do with the Adriatic, we don't know what we're going to do with agricultural land, we don't know what we're going to produce, and no one, never said about this pay phone from the government why we don't make enough food, which is why we import so much. And maybe it's clear to someone now why the course isn't changing? Why isn't the course changing? Well, because of the import lobby, they dictate. And how long? As long as one group of people who is in power, regardless of what is now, before then, will dictate to all of us the conditions with which the dignity of all people is violated primarily because we are hungry in Croatia, are hungry, excuse us, but are hungry, one third of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they are unemployed. We deal with large, every little bit goes to cut the Todoric strip opens large shopping centers and then each time closes at least 100, 200 jobs are lost small shops because we think that the bigger the shopping center that we are then the richer the country, the better the country. What are agricultural products on those shelves? Whose agricultural products are these? What is sold under agricultural products? The processing industry that died. If we were to produce, then we could have a agricultural and processing industry. So all that's done is because it's going to suit the big one, because the big one could be even bigger. Farmers who could even produce them are not allowed. The Department of Agriculture doesn't do its job. I'm absolutely certain that when they saw 1900 hectares of the country in two years that it was such a defeat that I think it would be better if the minister stayed at the government meeting by the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107073	Thank you, too. And now we're going to a longer set of replicas. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107074	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic, so you started your discussion in a way and wondered what would happen to small agricultural producers and you're right. You're right because 200 practically villages are gone. And here we are, when someone prepares for power, as this government has been prepared and the minister has been preparing, he should have known a little bit more about the problem of Croatian peasants, Croatian production, which awaits him, how many processed surfaces he has. And well you said yourself at first he promised 3 million acres that he would put right in, hire 10,000 people. When we here at the HDZ Club warned about all of this on the other side, we only got laughs. Indeed, what is first in the land and lease negotiations agreed for 7 years has been banned from buying agricultural land related to foreigners. So what we should have done, that's what we at the HDZ Club warned the OPGs to give the opportunity to buy that same agricultural land. For all of us, it should be for the purpose of rebuilding the village, sufficient production in that same village. We know the problems. But if a farmer could buy hectares and get a favourable loan or co-financing from the European Union and he can't because the rural development programme is not yet finished until 9 months will eventually start to take funds, which we don't know yet. I mean, it's the truth, we have to look the truth in the eye, that reality, that Croatian reality. We can fool ourselves. [[The President's intrusion: Thank you very much.]] And forgive me just one sentence, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We at the HDZ Club and I personally and too respect this Croatian Parliament to think that I would think that I could pass some law myself or we MPs, but I really think that laws change in the Croatian Parliament [[President: Well, you can't.]] And that's what I was gonna say when I got [[President: Thank you very much. That's good.]] [[President: That's good, that's good, that's the right opinion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107075	The reply to the replica of the esteemed deputy minister. Oh, no, my colleague Branko Vuksic. I've still got the records from the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107076	Okay. I'm not going to speak for the deputy because I'd be in a difficult position to explain it all. Dear colleagues of the twilight, one piece of information sounds frantic. So after 2.5 years or 3 years since Minister Jakovina promised to split 300 thousand acres of land, you said 3 million, a little too much. ... Yeah, there is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. So far, one hundred and fifty, look out for one hundred and fifty of the land. It's something scary. If we were a rich country, if we had plenty of food, we shouldn't behave like that. The other thing is, I disagree with you, you once you sell the land that country is sold forever and that country be, formulas first of all, and then the stranger, behind it comes a stranger. Because what Sanader was doing when he sold parts of the public companies knew those parts of the public companies would come, let's say INA's in the hands of Hungarians. And that's what he wants now, and this government took that recipe from Sanader, and it also wants to break up. If we want these 300 grand that's divided by the ground to break up, so 300 grand, it's going to go fast, it's going to split right away, we're just giving the green light so it can be sold. Then those 300,000 in a few years, we won't have the country, neither will the O.P.G.s, because they will provide one generation with that country, and that country will be in the hands of some who will isolate and pollute our country. We also need a strategy that you've talked about more than once today, which is a direct contract, it's a cancer wound, which is why we always give it right to a person or a small group of people that they can't do what they can't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107077	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107078	The laws may not have a bad intention, Mr. Vuksic, but the problem is always people, law enforcement. And as you asked yourself where the catch is, the catch is that this law doesn't have to be for big ones, but it can be the law for a big robbery in small Croatia. And now I'm going to explain one example to you, and later I'm going to take them out more. The State Office for State Property Management DUUDI on April 8th collects offers for sale of some 24 properties in Croatia. Among other things, in Istria, it sells 2270 meters in Grožnjan for a million and 300 thousand kuna. Now look, little country for a big robbery. A county official bought 61 478 square meters from the country for 140,857 kuna in Grožnjan. I don't want to talk about names. One chief in the same Grožnjan bought 65,063 square meters for 138,300 kuna, for a 10-year payment period where they pay monthly payments of 1000 kuna. Now the state sells 2270 squares for a million and 300 thousand kuna or 1 square for 572 kuna which is madness or 74.3 euros. That county official buys a square for 2.29 kuna and a former head for a respectable 2.1 kuna. If they had bought at this sale price, the state would have incomed 72.4m kuna or 9.5m euros. First it's a robbery, this second I don't know how to call it but madness, but in one country, the case, and when DORH of State's Attorney Nujic, too, now I'm saying, the Hypo Bank has been removed, and then everything can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107079	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107080	Dear Representative Cain, I agree with you that the laws are not as big a problem as the application of these laws. I'm sure as a layman, I apologize to my colleagues who are lawyers and lawyers, who have this matter in a small finger, that they always steal from us, you know how laws are done, just make two or three holes, and that law is ours. Two or three holes in the law and we will act not as everyone thinks the law has been passed in good faith but as it suits us. I agree with you that there's been a lot of robbery in our small country, with the need to, we have to boast that with so much robbery we're still on our feet, that we're a really rich country that they couldn't touch in the '90s or 2000s. What you're saying is certainly an interesting case, but what I'm afraid of in this law, and direct contracts. I'll name one case that happened in Nova Gradišca. '86. The land was taken away for 10 years. There was a lawsuit. After 10 years, the court declared itself incompetent for the court dispute and was returned to the Office of State Administration in Brod-Posavina County, Nova Gradiška Station and since 1997, an official named Danko Alasic should have done the following: find a geodetic, find assessor witches and write a conclusion. 18 years old, the gentleman hasn't opened an object, 18 years old. It is the functioning of the rule of law and the attitude towards land as we treat the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. 18 years. And when we had an officer's evaluation of 8 of them negatively, only 8 of them worked negatively. Well said the first Deputy Prime Minister 2.5 years ago, he was still in office, we lost the war against red tape, and this law will be highly bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107081	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vukšić, you mentioned the problem or data that is devastating, and that is how many total hectares since the law was passed two years ago have been put into office and the result is really devastating, regardless of whether we combine it with this or that because it varied that figure. It started with 700,000 acres and it fell. What interests me and what would be most likely interesting to all colleagues, which is to hear from the Deputy Deputy Minister and her assistant, or the principal, who are the reasons why such a small area has been placed in these two years because I believe that weaknesses are not only in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture but they have a slightly wider character. As far as mixing is concerned, I agree with you and we as a club, and I, as an agent, will go with the amendment that all available data on state agricultural land must be made available and transparent. So there's no answer to the question of who's using state agricultural land, Your Honor, we can't give it to you because of the secrecy of the data. In this case, the secrecy of the data is out of the question, this is state agricultural land. And finally, I agree with you completely that it's a good thing that we're going on a long-term lease, 50 years of rent, renting agricultural land is just enough ground for a serious approach to production and investment in production. If we were to make mass sales possible, then I ask the question of what money the weakened agricultural sector will be able to buy, in particular, small producers. Whether it will go through mortgage loans and then throw itself into the equity portfolio after the foreign banks. And this is the only way, here I welcome the ministry's firm position that land can be rented, but that it stays in the ownership portfolio of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107083	You, too. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107084	Well, yeah, we could have had that tourist slogan a small country of great fraud. We had that little country for a big vacation. It's a small country for big scams. And better rent a hundred years of land than selling land. Look, private property is inalienable. When you sold it, you said goodbye. Yesterday I watched a debate on Croatian TV about where colleagues proposed sell. What does the state want with 50% of INA? That economist should have a title or say I'm a propagator of neoliberal capitalism. Why don't you give someone, so give me 50% of the INA, I'll take it. What's the state's 50% INA going to be? What's the country doing with agricultural land? Why do we need 300 grand of land, let's give it away. Well, here's the Germans, the Turks, they'll take all that land. It doesn't sell, it should be kept for as long as it seems flossular as the pupil of her eye and given to the peasants for a hundred years if it should be. But no, that state must own that land. I agree with you fellow, weaknesses in division but all weaknesses. We think the slightest weakness is if the minister shares it. It's the biggest weakness, it's shown. Because everything else is immoral. The minister will listen to him when I'm here. I said, well, here we go, so we'll check it out soon. We checked soon. After that, I'd resign. I'd give after that, after a year of nothing being done, I'd tell my people I promised here and I lied and I didn't do what I had to do. I'm resigning. It would be moral, they would wear it probably in his village on the stretchers say look at an honest politician. But no, with us is honesty a sin. And how many acres we've been so far, that's embarrassing how divided it is. Why? I'm interested, too. I guess he'll explain. That's when they said they'd just start. What's gonna start, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107085	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I also remember that debate about 6 months after the adoption of the ban on agricultural land. We heard that, and by then there were the same significant results, let's say. But I've been discussing it with that very desire to stress the importance of the domicile population not to say by the fact that the country has always been known to belong to a peasant in the right sense that will produce and work on it, but also with the desire to make production, therefore, that quality food is produced. Because you've been talking about buying garbage a lot of times today. We've heard it many times and read it, and here we're producing quality food, and above all, this rural space is being maintained. That's not an irrelevant strategic question. But look at one thing now, and that's the O.P.G.s were now not that peasant anymore, but they were O.P.G.s who hired a number and worked. But, look, there's no mention of an O.P.G. anymore than one of those interested in the country. And now you imagine this interested man for the country and how he's going to go, this one that, without a public call, goes through two and a half acres with this guy who's had 40 ha so far, and he's reported three and a half thousand somewhere as many as four thousand paroled throats. And the agency says there should be three and a half thousand acres. Well, it can't be a man who's very wise to say that this peasant of mine is going to pass. And that opens up space certainly doubts, this favoring certain about self-will and all the other things that you've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107087	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107088	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, those who had 8500 or 10100 throats and had no land they mixed. They've imported food. It's pure-mixing. It was actually a damage done to the Republic of Croatia. What you said to the native population. Well, that is, there's one movie, and it seems to me that there are seven magnificent in a cowboy movie that says at the end of the movie when they all almost all die and talk to a wise man one of them and he says who's now won, who's lost. Veli was defeated by a peasant, because the peasant always wins, he has a country, except in Croatia. In Croatia, the peasant always loses because they want to take his land. What you said to one of the stakeholders, you know what it's like. Hello, this is Todoric, that I need so much and so much. They're your interests. That's how it's done in Croatia. And as much as we talk about it and as much as we deny it in the end, we end up seeing billionaires who have crushed money and not asking them where you come from, Mr. Not the first million, the first billion from where you get it. We're not asking anyone. Unfortunately, what you used to be and what you were saying we're destroying the village at the expense of having a few or a few dozen or hundreds of rich people in Croatia. And we shall have an army of the unemployed who will extort; and you know well, for you are from that place, what is the extremity. So he's gonna go make that lunch day he's gonna work on those fields. Unfortunately, if that's the social state we're offered, thank you very much, then that's the way to bring it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107089	Thank you, too. A new replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107090	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, when I talk about who this law is about, so do you with all the agricultural laws, and with this. Indeed, there is a wide range of those concerned, who are interested in this law. Let's say picturesquely even fish in the waters and birds in the air. Since 2001, when units of local self-government were given the task of building a land programme, a large majority did so, however, one part did not. I don't think 74 units, 75 of them don't have any land to put into operation at all. After that, only 48% of all that have made programmes have contracts, 48 so valid, less than half of the valid land lease contracts. And most of the time, when we talk about local self-government units, competitions and programming were done, of course, by staying as much money as possible in their cash registers and often by people who weren't actually qualified, but the job was done. Slavonian County, Osijek-Baranja 75% valid contracts, Virovitica-podravska 74%, Vukovar-Srijemska 69%. However, the difference between putting land into function and actually renting as you say, in that sense there are a number of reasons. When you say that, it takes two things to decide. So those who made the program only half have contracts. And when we talk about that other land that wasn't actually put into operation for a variety of reasons, then there are even more complex problems. And when you talk about the agency's business, the agency was founded not only on state land and private agricultural land, and there is a big job ahead of it, but the agency itself cannot be responsible for the whole situation in which it was found. We have a long and serious job ahead of us because we need to solve all the problems that are piled up. Look, if you're looking at 12 years, from 2001 to 2013, that the vast majority of the land didn't actually get contracts and they weren't made available in such a way as to have and to have income from them. And then, of course, people can't get a boost on those lands either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107091	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107092	Dear colleague Sagar, you mentioned the fish, I'm going to get attached to it now, the fish smells like heads. For everything you've said, there's only one address, and that's the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why? You mentioned local self-government because the government can do what to local self-government? Yeah, we were supposed to reform the local self-government. This man I mentioned for 17 years is getting paid, and that's how he handled it, and we only have 8 negatively rated people working in public administration. So who's to blame? Branko Vuksic or Zoran Milanovic? No reforms, no reforms. Why aren't there any of those contracts? You say there's no contract. So why isn't there a contract? Why is there a country that isn't functional? You take that country that's out of service. The law is passed and the country has not been in office for 2 years. How can a 45-year mockery stand in the middle of the City of Zagreb? There's a law where it's taken away, it's ruled out, there's a country that works. We're a country that doesn't work, it basically doesn't work. When the government doesn't do its job, no one else does their job. And that's why we have what we have. And now we've given, the problem with this law is that it has direct contracts, which is not a domestic population preferable, it has to be preferred rather than someone coming back again from Međimurje to Slavonia, so it will rent countries because it has good connections, maybe tomorrow it will be Međimurje's head for agriculture or the Minister of Agriculture. It simply needs to be disabled, such laws should be made to prevent both non-contracting and non-treatment, i.e. non-processing of land, etc. Whether or not it's private land. The land can't be in the weeds. That's what smart countries do. Look at what he's doing, study how the state of Israel treats the land, and we've solved everything. You can't have a lawn. A thousand dollars is a penalty when you rip a lawn where you can't. And it's normal for us that hundreds of thousands of acres are unprocessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107093	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107094	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, you, your colleague Vuksic, thinks that the minister accidentally stopped the availability of state agricultural land in 2012 and subsequently made changes to the law until this final proposal, which in one article therefore enables a direct allocation of state agricultural land. If there were no more of this article and no more of this, then I might think the same thing, that he accidentally stopped it all and that there was no more hectares of state agricultural land in this period assigned to concessions or those less area sold to those who needed it. I doubt that's the case. And it's really that big problem that we've been trying to talk about all the time, and that's the problem that they're not as the basis for giving drafts of a rulebook to work on. That when we pass laws, we can see how this will be done, especially this part of where the land is given to someone without a public competition. I'm in order to speed it up, to get as fast as possible, to get those who need it but I'm primarily for the goal of knowing. Now in this article 26, is the bull or cow, tux or cow the goal? But the aim of the law is the goal and the vegetables, is the goal something else, what are the goals? So without regional access, we should never give the country to anyone without a public competition. If it were a regional approach, if we were to determine what we want in the Neretva Valley, what we want in Lika, what we want in Slavonia, what we want in Prigorje and Zagorje, Podravina, Međimurje, then we could talk about this. Without it, there's a very, very large cloud of fog in which there's obviously something hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107095	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107096	Dear colleague Hrg gives a cloud of fog, and we are geese. That's how it turns out. And so are the MPs who raise their hands unspeakably and do not ask what is behind it. You asked her if I thought it was a coincidence that that rule was lifted first and then we got a direct contract. Imagine, you're a minister in the government and now some of the great people you want to sit with, you're eager to sit with them in the basements and there's nothing you can do about it. Well, the easiest thing is a direct contract. How do you think if there's a commission, if there's a Parliament that controls something, if it exists, it means how are you going to hang out with them if you don't have that power to please them? I think all that's done is done not only by this government, but also by these previous governments have worked to please the powerful. And that the authorities, both executive and legislative, were, often, parliamentary representatives, which does not justify them, and unconsciously in error to do good, while they did good only for a small group of people. So I agree with you. I don't think it's a case. And secondly, you said that when the laws are passed that provide for regulations, we need to substantiate the drafts, not the drafts, but the regulations to see. Because the drafts, we've often seen that we've passed the law here, and then the government regulations actually bring that law down to what it was intended to be, without talking about the rules. There are such rules that, in fact, this law no longer makes sense. It would be much fairer if when the law is passed, so let's say you look at this soap opera on HRT law, you give power to one man that he can do whatever he wants, fire whoever he wants for a verbal delinquent because it's the rules that are probably against the constitution, but nobody cares about sending to the Constitutional Court, unconstitutional, that they do by the rules. So by law and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107097	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107098	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleague Vuksic, I think we've been crushing agricultural land policy for twenty years, but as far as I can tell, without any major results. In 2013, we heard here that a million hectares would be put into operation, that 50,000 jobs would be opened, that somewhere as much as 7 million kunas were said per year would be paid out of the leased land, but not much of it happened. Why didn't it happen, because this Agricultural Land Act was absolutely not at the level of what was supposed to happen. When you look at that you have to give 13 confirmations for the lease tender if the municipality or city or unit of local self-government does not collect itself, you must collect confirmation of Croatian roads, Croatian highways, County roads, Croatian waters, Mine Action Centre, so even if you are looking for a lease in the City of Zagreb or in the vicinity of the City of Zagreb, you need confirmation of the Mine Action Centre, etc. So, this bill is moving now, and that's good, at least I think it's moving. So we move one step at a time, in my opinion, too slow, absolutely slow. As far as selling agricultural land, I absolutely don't think there's anyone in this country who'd sell big state plots, but these tiny little 200 squares by your house or by your yard, so what's the point? This state can't lease, it can't let anyone rent except you who're with that parcel and then better sell it to you and give that money to the unit of local self-government that will use it I hope, I firmly hope for the rounding up of agricultural land to be really functional and finally get quality and large parcels that obviously in the state budget can't get enough money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107099	Thank you. Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107100	Dear colleagues, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, look, now it's a matter of boundaries, this economist who was on the HRT yesterday that I was talking about, the border is below 50%. We don't need, what do we need 50% of the INA, what do we need with the Croatian state? You say here, I don't know, I didn't understand 200 squares, small, tiny circle, don't sell anything. It's always not worth it to us, we'd sell everything because this is small, this is derusive, this is it, this isn't worth it, we'd sell it all. And logically yesterday the question was asked is that after we sell everything and we know our mentality, and we know that in Croatia what is missing, we lack the sense of governance and honesty that what is state to be treated as being own. However, there is no one, anyone who comes to those positions, works in the interest of someone to destroy it and sell it later. I don't know if 200 squares, I haven't thought about it, should sell or not, but that's not the problem. You said step by step, you said 20 years already we're dealing with that subject. So if we take it one step at a time, well, my grandson might see the land split. So somewhere in 20 years when he'll be conscious and when he'll be able to discuss something, maybe 20 years or 50 years from now, when he'll retire. We're hungry now, we need food production now. This power, the government has promised when it will come to solving a mass of these issues, and I say two things are unquestionable it is the Adriatic and the country. That's unquestionable, that's what we have, that's what we're given, and what we say we're not gonna do, it's not worth it to us. Let them be rich on food imports, let them have billions and billions of deficits in food imports. What did this government say, did it bring in a program to cut into food imports? Here's the thing, it's impossible, it won't get involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107101	Drazen Pandek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107102	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague, in your debate, you have therefore made a critical reference to a small number of hectares that have been leased. I cannot say, though, that I know the situation throughout Croatia, I am following the situation in this area in Zagreb, especially this eastern part of where I am from. Zagreb does not have a lot of agricultural land owned by the state, there are several hundred hectares, there road to Dugi Selo. There because of the indetermination of the status of the property's disorder, it wasn't... The lease's been there since the '90s, and it's only been a while since the competition's been called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the land should be said not to have been unprocessed, due to slowness, non-resolvement all those years, almost twenty years of property and technical problems around the land, some farmers themselves have broken up the land and started processing it more than ten years ago. It is not good that it was dealt with that way, but it is good that the land was processed because it was not a schnapp. That is why it should be said that there is no problem in this vault, there has been no problem in this sector since yesterday, since the day before yesterday, since the state of Croatia was created. According to the state land available programmes, since 2011 data were therefore 552,000 hectares and the agency came in 2014 to essentially 738 thousand hectares, so a huge job was done to fix the situation. So there was a complete mess, there was no book of closed contracts, no record of closed contracts, no record of paying the tenants. So there was no record, some programs were even approved, and these data were neither real in them. Then you should stress as was the case with... that country and was processed but processed without a contract. I'm saying it's bad, but maybe luck in an accident again. A huge job is being done, this example shows what I mentioned, that a huge job has been done that hasn't been done in 20 years to update the data, and now here we finally have on this example the data arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107103	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica. Stick to the time, you're all out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107104	Dear counterpart Pandek, I agree with you that the problem isn't since yesterday, the problem is 20 years old, the problem is since the 1990s, meaning the land is depleted, etc. And what you're going to say about the data that we didn't mention today, and about the land, it's irrigation. Are you worried that Albania is a far better country than Croatia? Do you see the root of what that root is? Well, in the mighty. Imagine that we have a irrigated land and that we actually produce food and that there are no butchers and there are no large importers. Well, they don't give anything. I always see that smile on your faces who runs the country. You well know who runs the country, who doesn't know better than not to sit there, who runs the country. It was a mess, I agree with you, it's been a mess for a long time. But it's too slow to deal with. When I was telling you this example, it's a poor little lonely example that a man for 17 years hasn't opened an object and works at the state administration. He needs to be kicked in the ass and forced out. That's what people are like. And then their bosses do what? Then their bosses give them passing grades because those bosses don't do anything either. Well, I agree with those who say we shouldn't quit because we don't have too many clerks, we've got too many bad clerks, we've got too many bad bosses in the administrations. And when we put it together, we'll never do anything. I repeat, Cacic said we lost the war against bureaucracy, and the worst bureaucracy is right in the agencies because there are the arrests of party, incompetent people and there are problems. Why we've been discussing it for decades, and others do it normally and don't have such a good country, and they don't have as good a chance as we do. Why do others have better tourism and not have that paradise on earth that we have? Well, because we're incompetent and we have to say it, and we keep drilling about what we're best at, and we have the best education, all of this has to come down to the levels that they are at.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107105	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107106	Dear colleague Vuksic, you have very much opened the topic in your debate, and in your replicas you have opened even more. So the first thing was a lot of incorrect information, so I'm going to try to objectively inform the public to correct you in some kind of fact. So what's indisputable is that you read a lot, that you're a good rhetorical man, and that there's a possibility that when you read fast, you did make a certain oversight. So one of the essential items of this new amendment and the addition of the law is exactly the criterion of domicility, and you said there was no such thing, so it was corrected, so you told the lie. On the other hand, I have to say that the law simply doesn't suit the great and that it's not true. The third thing is the fact that over the past 20 years, the OPGs have absolutely not been prepared for competition and we need to talk about it. And if you're going to take a step backwards then we can say that one of the biggest mistakes of the former governments or the first government is to shut down PICs where technology and knowledge and experience have been concentrated. And instead of developing cooperative relations with these small producers and guaranteeing them the purchase of agricultural products, we let them on the market absolutely unprepared. And I agree with you, which was done by the former governments, why this peasant, why this farmer, why that farmer isn't prepared. And it seems to me that there was also talk of some kind of untruths and coincidences that one seems to me very important coincidence is that the former Agriculture Minister, Cobankovic, is guli potatoes precisely from the random differences as you said the Minister of Agriculture, has banned the sale of agricultural land. By chance, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107107	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107108	As for the former minister who's peeling potatoes, I'm here when he yells at me from another bench and says where he belongs, when it was time, you didn't say that, you kept your mouth shut. You now that he's already peeled the potatoes remember him. Now take care of your minister. To deny me then deny the facts, not the claims. You haven't said a single fact, but you say so, and you say so. That means argument to argument. So we're going over the data. Give me that information, you didn't give me any information. The dominant population if the contract means that the host population is in a subordinate position. No one can be obtained by contracting a land unless it's intended for the domicile population to write it in law and then the law is right. It's a hole in your law. I'm telling you by argument, and you've been making a statement and you've been saying it nicely. Thank you for beginning with those that I read a lot, etc., but it's better to understand than to read, some read a lot, but they don't understand anything. I just spoke to a fellow Roman, this isn't the problem with this government for 3.5 years, this is a problem that's two decades old. But I had confidence in this government that this government would do what it promised to do. You told us that, and I kept my word. Well it wasn't all so black, if it was all so black then you could say right away, then you should have recorded the situation and said you hear it's so black that we're four years old we won't do anything, we'll just prepare for those other four years. We want some results. Maybe the hunger of children who are hungry today was caused 10 years ago but you had to be aware of that. People who take over government must be competent people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107109	Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107110	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague Vuksic, here's a fellow Roman has already said something, but I feel the need to do it again anyway, because you claim the opposite in your replica again. Namely, in your debate you really touched everyone I would say about you important social issues and that's fine. But at least you were actually talking about the Agricultural Land Act. Among other things, you say that a lot of land is unprocessed and there I agree with you and that is a sad picture of the Republic of Croatia, that is a fact. You continue, therefore, that large areas of state agricultural land have not been allocated and during which period etc. Well, now, we're coming in one, a little blurry for me after all. You would actually be assigned state land as it was assigned before and before, especially when it was in the form of local administrations and self-government, which means it was mostly by family, godfather and friendly relationship. I'm not into it, and those farmers I'm talking to are about introducing very strict criteria and the exact criteria of how state land is assigned. You have a lot of farmers who have filed complaints because they have just been assigned, I say, relatively, friendly and godfatherly. It is precisely this law that determines the criteria and the way and means and... You keep mentioning that this law exempts the native population, that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was precisely because there were a lot of remarks that farmers from other counties were receiving land from their own county that did not now introduce this criterion of domicileness. There is also a criterion for young people, for beginners, for women additional points. Unfortunately, as far as women are concerned, here I have a conflicting opinion that this should not be scored because it is discrimination for women to get an extra one. It is this law that has therefore experienced great changes in the sense of the second reading that he also respected the profession, bringing new criteria that would finally be managed by state land properly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107111	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica. Once again, please take care of the weather. There's a lot of reports and a lot of replicas. Try to say the replica in two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107112	Dear fellow Posavac. You said I probably agree that the land was assigned in the way it was assigned before. Here, I'll remind you again, you probably forgot the sentence I said when Mr. Cobankovic was sitting here that he and his family had secured themselves and his chukunuke. And they did it, so you won't be copying them. I believe you won't. Therefore, it is the last snow that the DORH should deal with and the DORH deals with politics as well as the Supreme Court or... They're dealing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one does their job in Croatia. That's the problem. It should be done by the police, the DORH, the judicial authorities because it was a crime that only partially... But I'm saying, do I trust local self-government, yes, I believe, more than one man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I trust local self-government more. And that's when it was pointing fingers, the peasants themselves resisted with their fingers. Remember the tens and tens, hundreds of inscriptions when they called out exactly who got the land, to whom the grandson, the son, the aunt, I don't know, uncle, to whom they assigned the land. At that time, you needed to be punished and taken away from that land. Many have received land that has never buried a shovel. You said the problem is in unprocessed land, yes, it should pass such laws that there is no unprocessed land. There are countries that have solutions to that. Why do I need 20 years, 40 years for everything? I don't think it's easy for this government, that this government came to clean ground, that it's got everything clean, that it should have just divided the land. She was supposed to fix a lot of wrongs, Drina, but you took that job and you should do it. And I think this law is bad and I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107113	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, I think that all those who think a little bit about agriculture know that this is a strategic issue of every country and the issue of national security. Food production is a matter of national security. What the situation is today is already said in replicas and obviously your exposure has prompted many to engage in the discussion of food production. I'd touch two things. One question is the convenience of this law, this bill actually opens up the possibility of corruption. Article 26 opens the possibility of corruption. As soon as you give a state body the possibility of giving something without a public call, you directly opened up the possibility of corruption to someone. It doesn't mean that someone's going to act like this, it doesn't mean that someone's going to be corrupt, but when you open up the possibility of corruption by law, it means that something isn't healthy, that this proposal simply can't go away. And if we're talking about the domicile population, then it's not about favoring, but it's about strategic thinking about how to leave people in the country, how to simply raise that area to a higher level, raise the standard for people to stay here and not simply to disappear the population from that area. We already have areas that are completely unoccupied. It is enough to pass some parts of Croatia driving by car, they can see that you may simply drive from house to house sometimes 50 km or more, it does not exist in European countries, it is unfortunately only in Croatia. It is therefore a strategic issue to give the domicile population an advantage but under very clear criteria, under very clear criteria, but the domicile population must be given priority and this should simply be ensured by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107115	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107116	Dear counterpart Matušić, you have touched one of the most important issues we have not discussed today, which is a matter of national security. Yes, food production is a matter of national security in every country, and the countries of the strongest capitalism have begun to worry a lot and are struggling to make the processing industry and to leave agriculture as much under the influence of the state or under the control of the state. That is a strategic question, and now imagine this strategic question we import half the food, it's so deficit, it's the same as when you're already talking about national security as if we have half the country being guarded by Hungarian soldiers and they're in half of Croatian territory. That's purely figurative. It's either German or anyone else's. It's only when we start talking like that that that might make people realize what it means, and we don't have to. If we didn't have resources then we'd say sorry, so we can't grow wheat on the rocks, but we have land. The thing is, we're treating this country the wrong way. And I totally agree, the domicile population, here we're fooling ourselves with competitions, with a long time ago a colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt seems to be telling me I need 13 confirmations of various things to come to what, so it can be done, it can be offered to these people and to say if you're able to put that country into office. This should be done, there needs to be, too much word maybe some new deal done here with us, to put it on, to start producing food. But we look at it all through the laws, through the holes in the laws, through the debates, and the situation in the field is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107117	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107118	Thank you, Vice President. So, my colleague Vuksic, I was also distracted by your claim that this law is another source of corruption as you said, because it prefers the great in the division of the country, and it pushes out and destroys the small ones. This is indeed not true because in this final version of the law, therefore, a series of changes have been made precisely in the score of the economic programme that contributes to the very small producers, so I'm going to list just a few. Let's say companies get 8 points, OPGs get 10 points. Small producers can combine, for example, mechanical resources available, so-called "mechanization" resources, so-called "mechanization". mechanical rings. Furthermore, young agricultural producers receive additional points. So you're just encouraging small producers to step up and I don't understand why your paranoia that this law wants to destroy them. Finally, the rounding of land is the son of Quanon I would say the assumption of both profitable agricultural production and market competitiveness. Finally, that's why we're also passing the Law of Compassion. So you pointed out that you are a Međimurec and then you should know as such, and I don't know if you know that from the total available agricultural fund in Međimurje as much as 7% of the waste on the border. Therefore, this huge delicacy, this fragmentation of agricultural land, is both the basic limiter and the commercial production and the market competitiveness. Finally, a pilot irrigation project was built in Međimurje, and in my opinion, it will not be in much function for much longer precisely because of this fragmented and decapitated land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107119	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107120	Dear colleague Jelash, I'm sure this law won't cover that land, I didn't know that information, I'm not an agricultural expert. I like to get information, so I'll get information about it. And it's certainly one of the great problems that has plagued and tortured for decades before the '90s. For years, but for taking over the state so that it wouldn't be like that anymore. We need to bring solutions here, not ask questions. We mostly ask questions and complain, cry on each other's shoulders and say no, it's not like that, you're talking wrong, I'm talking wrong to you, you're telling me wrong. Is that my paranoia, I'm not a paranoid type. You were talking about points. Look, I've talked to people, I haven't just read the law, I've talked to people who deal with it, here's a live village... the Minister of Agriculture certainly knows, has a good opinion of them because they deal with agriculture, and now that they agree politically, that's another thing. If 1/3 of the land available should get 50 people, and 2/3 would be redistributed to 48 000, now you explain what that is, what policy is. If that's not true then the minister will come and say it's not true, we'll do it. I'm not here to speak false information, I have data like I said before, and most of the data I have official data and other data and I don't have. I don't have it in mind. All this data I got from the agency, so I didn't invent any data. So, and I'll even agree to paranoia, I'll agree to that, but practice makes me paranoid. Practice makes me want to import food that we don't need to import, that more people are hungry, that more people are poor and practice. And I repeat, I don't think it's just this government's sin. It's a 20-year-old problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107121	Giovanni Sponza, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107122	Dear Mr Vuksic, you have in your debate touched that the process of centralisation of competence through the agency actually does not take place in line with the announcements and expectations of the agricultural land allocation. Until a moment ago, the director of the agency was with us and I, as a local official, want to say that the lady is extremely responsible, that she is competent and that, together with her associates and associates, she does everything in this matter. But there is only one reason, that objective nature, that too few people are employed by the agency and that for these objective reasons they definitely cannot do all the work for all municipalities and all cities in the Republic of Croatia. So I am the position that just for practical reasons the procedure itself needs to be decentralised and I think the time will come when it will be decentralised, but here I want to make it clear that there should be strong control mechanisms installed at that time. However, this debate went wrong on me. We should focus our eyes forward and make it clear that this bill is much, much, much better than it was in the first reading. Really much, much better. Today, this bill means a lot, and farmers depend greatly on this law whether they will exercise the right to enroll in the ARCOD, that these particles and these surfaces are embedded inside the foundation of what these people are entitled to incentivise. There are other multiplier effects, so in this context we need to look forward. Those who live on agricultural land are eager to pass this law. He's very good. It's much better than the first draft of the law, and of course, in some future laws, things will get better in that direction. I think that part of the debate that went about selling a small part of the area in the co-ownership section that Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt said should only be mentioned [[Thank you very much. Time.]] two details. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] It's one. that there is a large, one large number of demands on this issue... [[Grebec raid: A colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107123	That's what you'll say in the debate. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107124	Dear colleague Sponza, I liked your replica because you were talking about concrete things when you resisted me and I'm glad that as a man of local self-government you have words of praise. And I can't argue with you if you have good experience. People in Slavonia think differently from you, part of you. I'm not one of those people I represent, people all the way like they used to tell that three defense bosses that they represent all the defenders. You said you were the first man to increase the number of people in the agencies. But from what I understand, you'd be transferring to local self-government. Well, I'd do it myself, transfer it, and cut half the agencies, and especially the ones that don't need it. I believe that when the total number of agencies involved in agriculture and people who are employed there is too fat. And for what? Because we don't have any norms about what these people need to do, how they should work. Therefore, do not just call for more employment, for soon after that, they will declare that this is what the Assembly has asked for and employs several thousand people. I agree with you you need to decentralisation so you can look ahead and that your perspective is clear you need to know what was behind, and that slogan forward is very dangerous when it comes to us. Because if we step forward, there's a break-in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107125	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community I want to really talk about a law that is very important for the Croatian man, for the Croatian village and better said for that small man who is the beginner of the economy in his unit of local self-government in his village. I do not want today, and above all, not as a minister of agriculture and who comes from Slavonia to insult one word perhaps as he has understood it in my past debate, but as I really want today's debate to be for the benefit of the new law, for the benefit of those who deal with agriculture. In Croatia, we do not want to offend anyone's work in any way in any way in any way in any way, but with our debate, we want to encourage visions precisely that Croatia has a worthy agricultural producer, that Croatia has a future in agriculture, and not that because of one's mistakes, I will not say that the most important one in that production that is very important for the Republic of Croatia will be cut off. We are witnesses of respected colleagues and colleagues that the Republic of Croatia does not today, not for many years already, importing so many agricultural products that we are simply amazed by knowing and having insight into that production that is possible and that production that can be sufficient for the Croatian man, we obviously do not know how to use or need special advisers who will come to us to tell us how and how to first write the Law on Agriculture, on agricultural land and how to be self-sufficient in the production of food that we consume daily. In a conversation with many colleagues who come from the EU right now, and I am moved by their thoughts that Croatia has all the potential to develop agriculture, to improve in each segment, and we respected colleagues and colleagues stagnate from day to day. I'm not going to say today how much agriculture she had in the Republic of Croatia's budget until yesterday, and today it's a billion-and-a-half kuna less. I'm not going to talk about what we did wrong to destroy agricultural production today, to destroy today exactly what we need most, what we can't do without it, and that's food. We prefer this way to import agricultural products that greatly destroy our Croatian production. Our Croatian peasant does not deserve this kind of relationship, because he is extremely valuable. He's smart. He knows how and how to produce, but apparently in these laws that are written and written today, we may not care enough about it. I'm not saying that today's law and changes to this law are not good. No matter what I come from the opposition HDZ party, I will say that we have made an extremely significant progress in relation to the law that was passed in 2013. I myself said several times that the 2008 law was only meant to be completed, but not by simply abolishing it and passing the law in 2013 which was not enforceable. Why wasn't he executive, respected colleagues and colleagues? Well, we are witnessing the arrival of the government of the Kukuriku coalition and the SDP at the head and our current minister there has been a freezing and selling of agricultural land but also concessions. For three years, the Agricultural Land Agency has done nothing. By coming here, as I don't know which of my colleagues said, a year or more ago or half a year ago Mrs. Mitchevic at the head of the agency said I've done all the honors we've made major shifts. Why haven't we done that in the last 2.5 years? We've lost so much time, unprofessional people have been brought in, party people, but I don't care who's partying or who's not, but if he knows how to work, I'll say hello to him from this stage. And today I welcome all those who do good for agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. And I would disagree here with some colleagues who say this law is not good. He is not perfect, but I am sure that in understanding, in conversation, we can do everything in tolerance to write tomorrow the best law that will be on behalf of the Croatian village, the Croatian man. We do not need, dear colleagues and colleagues, to be here today tiring and calling on individuals to deal with malfeasance, but we certainly need every item in this new law to be thoroughly combed, and even if we have not done so so far, we will do everything in the future to correct exactly the mistakes we may not have seen and which tomorrow will also be visible. Of course, all of you are curious about this particular land assignment without a competition. I agree that today we have agricultural holdings that have cattle and have no land. Or rather, they don't have enough land. I agree that exactly the economic programme that existed before in the law, which is still to be today, but the question is whether the very economic programme should be crucial in the award of agricultural land to the lease? That's the key question. The economic program in the previous law was not the one who ruled in the assignment of land to this or that, but it is indeed today. Today, the economic programme determines who and how much land they will receive because it is in the economic programme that 60 points carry that company that has the largest number of machines, which has a waist, which has storage sites, which has tractors, which has silos. And I am now asking you respected colleagues and colleagues whether a small agricultural producer, not who starts working today, but who already has 5 and 10 years of activity, has such a necessary mechanism and can achieve the necessary number of points, so 60 points? That's why, Mr. Minister, right through your debate and through all that time spent, through all those sessions that we held, and right on the subject of the Agriculture Act and the Law on Agricultural Land and the Economic Programme, we have appealed to you, don't be that man who, by his signature and by his regulation, will judge exactly the basis of the economic programme. What, then, if we change 42 articles out of the 85 articles of the existing law? I agree with the individual presentations here and my colleague that we should have written a new law in fact. But okay, we didn't. But don't be the man who, based on exactly the economic programme, is going to destroy everything we've done in these past months and days and what we've really fought for. And it's not true today that domicileness is not an advantage in local self-government units. We have just done everything we can to ensure that this domicile is present and that it is not possible for a man from Zagreb to run for the country and that it is simply taken over by this who is just across the street. We have also made one progress and I am sure that there will be improvement and development of agriculture because of everything we have done. We're also in our proposals, and it didn't happen, but we did make progress when we talk about that unprocessed agricultural land. And I come right from Požega-Slavon County and as a man who has a very close connection with the village because I was there and it's visible that on these areas there's a lot of abandoned land that needs a simple hand, needs a man who's going to process it, needs a man who's going to remove that plant and we suggest that such land is also granted without a public tender to whoever wants that land to come off and who wants to put it into effect. In this way, respected colleagues and colleagues would greatly reduce all those areas that are now abandoned, which are unworked, and thus when we put land into operation we give it to a man who will process it, it creates a new product, it creates a new value. As hard as we are in such decisions and at the same time we give land to certain producers they were called one way or another, and it's thousands of acres, then we certainly didn't make a good decision on one side and we think we did it on the other side. I've certainly advocated that all these lands will be processed tomorrow and that these lands will be operational. I'm afraid that in this way, when we've respected the proposal that it's not one year when the land has to be cleaned up from that plant, we've extended it to two years, but I'm sure in this other way we'd put a far larger area under culture because in this way, a man has to have cash to get out and maybe then the Ministry of Agriculture, as we suggest in the coming years, wouldn't have to pay the rent, but he'll get rid of it. But the question arises whether a man who wants to disembark such agricultural land has the capital needed to invest in that very same land. Of course, these 15 minutes are not enough for me about everything I say, and what is so important for agriculture, but certainly also in the coming period and in all those amendments and additions to the laws regarding both agricultural land and everything that is related to agriculture will take a lot of time to protect the domestic producer in the best possible way. Dear colleagues and colleagues today we are talking about the assignment of land to the very companies they have, which are engaged in the loading of the hero and we say we have no land, but we have another problem that is very important, we agree that they need land but respected colleagues and colleagues we, if we write the law and if we want to create something positive then we must fully and change certain things. Look at the absurd here we have an incentive, so the man who imports the junada, we have here the man who's doing it here, we give him the land, we give him the land, and now listen to this absurd, and that man who's got this stuck-up hero needs to sell it, he can't sell it for a reason because we're just getting imported meat from the EU where there's six months of validity, and we've got a year. And what we're doing, we're destroying this same domestic production that we've given incentives for, and of course we're coming into a position to destroy the peasant himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107127	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Lucic, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107128	I'm finishing up the vice president. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues are pleased that in one work we have succeeded in correcting this law, and I hope that in due course we will also improve what is not good. Thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107129	I have understanding, but they don't have others waiting in line. My colleague Damir Kaja's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107130	I absolutely agree that the country must not be in any way in the barracks. In five years, we will also allow foreigners to come into possession or better said to become owners of the country in the Republic of Croatia. But that's not the biggest problem either, the foreigners already have INA, they have THT, they have banks, they have tourism, they're going to have five tomorrow, they're controlling 90% of the money to tell the country's potential. You know what the problem is? The problem is those who bought dozens of hectares of state agricultural land for one to two kunas, then urbanized it and now become masters of space and resell it for 50, 100 or more euros. I was just quoting one example that an oran 2270 square meters in Grožnjan is sold for 1.3 million kuna. I assume it's urbanized. While senior county officials on the other hand, Grožnjan municipalities buy 6.7 hectares for as much as 130, 140 thousand kuna. The vertonigla is, say, an exemplar down there. So what now? We have one more serious maybe problem, the problem is specifically the DORH that was paid primarily not to work, to protect its employers. Mr. Nujic, the head of the DORH in Istria, was literally executed because of Hypo Bank. The other boss is here, and what's he doing now? It represents 50% of local self-government units. The media has received 500 thousand euros to sort things out, let's say, about all of this, and otherwise only down is about 2 billion dollars. The problem is institutions, controlled institutions, are not the problem of laws, the problem is simply people, and the peasant is if blood is to be given to him, and the country is to rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107131	Franjo Lucic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107132	I agree with my colleague Cain, but since I have been in the Croatian Parliament for a long time and I listen to your discussions, you have repeated it several times here. And I really don't see any reason why you don't call certain people and invite the institutions that are responsible for it. We or I who live in Slavonia don't know about it, unfortunately in Slavonia we can't re-route land, not at those prices as much as possible in Istria. But what I was saying and in my debate is very important how and how we write the laws, so it is in law that we must make such provisions that it must not be in a position that certain laws or land are particularly agricultural abuses. Obviously in your midst it's done. But I'm saying we're not here to handle this. So report if you know who these people are, report them and let them explain. However I am, whether you or anyone are questioned today on certain matters, let each one explain his actions and determine whether he is guilty or not. The loose stories, the loose hints, the wild accusations don't lead to anything. So let us begin to deal with what is important, and if we know that certain irregularities are done, let us choose to report them, and let someone else explain it, rather than constantly listening to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107133	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107134	That's exactly what you said about the fact that they're doing a little bit of doing things for those of you who keep talking about the poor, and at least they've read the law. And I'm glad you got the strength to recognize great things, you talked about some further problems, but to recognize the good things in this bill that you said was good for both peasants and important for the Croatian village. I would add to that that he is good for the whole country, that this is one of the strategic laws that this government has passed. That although this law bears the title of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, given its extremely new norms that will finally prevent us from being on a plane or traveling by train or by car from seeing a chicaru, that this is unacceptable and that indeed this law would require more country names for peasants. And that's exactly what the government has solved through the department's resolute ministry to finally deal with unprocessed own space. This cannot afford any country that has oil fields, which has a rich industry to have abandoned agriculture. And you can see exactly the country that's developed and arranged has also processed agricultural areas. And that's why this bill of law in the whole series almost doesn't have a provision that doesn't say that the state decided not to because it's also a state interest to give the country to farmers. But you rightly warn of that fact, and it doesn't matter who hired them, let people do their job, and that's why the ministry is going to have to watch the law. So not that one clerk no matter who hired him will say this. His intensity as is the intensity and spirit of the whole law that he can do, who's interested if something in his request is wrong because it's in the same interest as that agricultural producer who intends to take agricultural land to work to be motivated right now. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107135	Thank you. Franjo Lucic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107136	I agree, colleague, I just said in my presentation, I don't want to spit on anyone today but the joint forces of the Agriculture Committee that organized a few thematic sessions, I'm sorry, as I said three years ago almost without doing anything about it. They've been lost for three years where we should have gotten to the rural development programme a lot faster today, because in time we've done some of thematic things, that we've had discussions, that we've really had one tolerance in all those proposals, I'm sure this law would be even better today. But today I repeat again, thank you to all those who have in any way contributed to moving to say that the right domicile is number one, that this man in this village is fulfilling his opportunities and wishes in agriculture that he cannot come to him in any way, not underestimating anyone but also mid-150, 200km of what kind of message we send to the previous law which was not good and which we have changed here thank God. But I repeat, he is not entirely good yet, he certainly has his changes and additions, and therefore I am sure that in the future we will not be too big to say the arrogance of anyone to do anything for the sake of the village and that the ultimate necessity is to save Croatian peasants and it is high time to be self-sufficient in agricultural production. We have so many options, so much we've written strategy, green, blue, and to this day we haven't accomplished anything yet. That's why I'm sure the time and the future is ahead of us...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107137	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I agree with you, fellow Lucic, that the importance of the country should be stressed as a resource. I agree with you, of course, that the importance of the village should also be emphasized, but also by those who live in that village and process the country in today's difficult conditions, but surely it must be the interest of the Croatian authorities who must finally say what they want with the country and with the people who live on that country. Well, I didn't make it up, international experiences show that domestic livestock and domestic farming are the foundations of agricultural success, that's for sure. And in that part and local self-government has something to say, she had something to say even though she wants to talk here about local self-government in that negative context of how they work and how they are with those different combinations. I am in my midst not even in the morning of the country, therefore, and we have no regrets, unfortunately we do not have it is our own trouble and because of our position we cannot do so much but we are interested in improving the quality of life, maintaining life and of course quality agricultural production. And in that sense, it highlights that principle of domicile advantage. The principle of domicile advantages that must be, which must be everywhere and in this new economic plan will bear several points. A few points. Please, that says enough for everyone and I can't help but think that this is about centralized decision-making. And that is how we are the only country in Europe that promotes this way the greatest influence of a country that can and works in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107139	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107140	I agree with my colleague Milinkovic, is the position, the Croatian Democratic Community, my personal opinion, you know what, I want from agriculture and from our peasants? A rich man. We want a rich peasant in HDZ today. Why? Because he's the foundation of what we need and that's food. Food today is the greatest value in the world. And just through this kind of support of farmers' agricultural production we will surely and as a state of Croatia rise to those potentials that we expect. Of course, either this or any other Government of the Republic of Croatia must participate without the support of ministers, ministries, governments, generally looking at the future of the village, there is no rich peasant. So why should we be afraid? Why should we fear him who creates us, who produces food for us, for our children, for our future and for our survival. And that's why, colleague, we have to stand up for domicile in one of these laws, and now we've done it. But in any case, it depends on the minister and his economic program where he has the only one, beware of the only possibility of changing the life or death of an individual. Well, it can't be, so we were just supposed to discuss this economic programme in the Croatian Parliament. We were supposed to bring the score and say how many points and who they belong to. Why does the minister do that? I don't underestimate him, and I don't want to offend him, but it's no good for a man to decide you're going to get a country based on a score, or you won't be able to get a country based on whether to rent, whether to sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107141	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107142	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucic, there is no political party that does not want a rich peasant and probably no MP in this Sali has a different opinion. In this debate you touched the conditions of Croatian agriculture which is really bad and you mentioned 3 lost in the past year, I would say we lost 20 years of agricultural policy rather than just 3. This law, i.e. this new law passed 3 years ago, is only part of what needs to be done in the domain of decision making for the Croatian peasant to become a rich peasant, to become self-sufficient in food production. And the fundamental lack of Croatian policies for the past 20 years has been a lack of capacity to decide on agriculture. We were courting voters, we weren't making complete measures and full decisions, and today the result is what it is. And in the end, you said that we needed to pretend expertise, I would say not only in the sphere of agricultural policy but it should be a fundamental criterion in Croatian society. But there are no innocents in that story as well. It is not only a matter of professionality when it comes to the Agency's case for Agriculture, but it has brought this country where it is without innocents and without exception for the past 20 years. And finally, I agree with the fundamental intensity of this law that land is given in a long-term lease and that only smaller parcels are sold in exceptional cases, i.e. in cases of limitivity. Because if we sell out this agricultural land portfolio that remains in state property, then we'll be another step towards total poverty as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107143	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107144	My colleague Baranovic, since we are both on the board together and knowing your attitudes and before, I am very glad that more and more on this committee where I am and the president are not really looking at party activities or colors we bring to the development of agriculture really common interests precisely for the survival of the one who deals with production, so that man and small but also large systems. No matter what today or perhaps several times I spoke of it to a domicile man, the one who comes from the village. I certainly represent the interests of large producers. You see to me today without great producers we can't, these are companies that also hire large, large numbers of people. But I'm not for certain companies to go 70 or 150 kilometers into a particular environment, process the country, and that man or your man simply runs out of land, or as our old people say, "Hang your teeth on a wedge." What's he gonna do tomorrow? He doesn't have a future. Or that we also accepted in law and here and this opportunity to thank both the Minister and all of us for saying that here are the people who have so far had no land, we gave them a chance here for 5 years you'll get a lease or those people who deal with livestock production. We've increased the number of points. Why? Because he's out of a contract a year so he doesn't lose his land because tomorrow he's got to sell out his cows, his household, and that way they'll destroy him. And you see that so far has not been in this law. And we've just made our pledges to save that man because in the field, looking at the people I've been going around right now, they have these problems. And that's where we made the move, and that's why it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107145	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107146	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucić, you have been talking about the Agency's dissatisfaction for three years, and in fact, when we look at the history of the Law on Agriculture and the availability of state agricultural land, it does not like to extend for more than 23 years, so for almost 25 years. And what's the consequence? As a result, all 25 years hence, food imports are double over food exports. What we all agree on is, of course, that the peasant lives in the country so that his living conditions and earnings are the same as those that work and live in the city, but when you increase the surface area that has OPG etc., it remains what is very important, and that is the product placement in the Republic of Croatia, so the product is placed. You know that during your former Minister Cobankovic, it was an intervention purchase of pigs. Why was there an intervention buy-in of pigs? Well, because some privates imported huge quantities of pig's half into the Republic of Croatia, while domestic pigs remained unrepurchased, there was no market for domestic pigs. And then there was 11 kunas a kilo of pig buying, and then there was an intervention. Is that the agricultural policy you're talking about? It's not. So the time has come to change and in this sense all together, so available to state agricultural land, and then we will not import 25-year-old beef from Brazil, which, according to the minister of the time, was completely correct. Medically yes, but with quality and other elements I hope you are not.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107147	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107148	Yes, my colleague Grubisic, I absolutely advocate a strategy in agriculture and let's say what we ultimately want. We don't have a strategy in agriculture yet, we didn't just say we wanted to become independent. We did not say how and how to encourage farmers to produce right in Croatia. We are not determined to say this year we will reduce the import of agricultural products by a certain amount, and we will produce in Croatia. Those are exactly the problems you're talking about, which I'm talking about. I'm also in favour, and since I come from Slavonia like you, about an intervention ransom. But first of all, we have to take a stand and say it in any way, no matter what we are in the European Union, other countries do it, pounds of pork will be so much and so much and can't be below it or can't be beyond it. But I'm sure even when imports appear, and we know how and how imports appear, that we're not just tearing down prices for our producers with these imports. Yes, we import meat from Argentina, we import it from the European Union, and why don't we change that meat law or I don't know it can't be more than six months old. So that's how we're about to prevent the import of meat and the destruction of our farmers in Požega-Slavon County, once known for the production of pigs. We have today, we don't need to build farms, we have as many farms as you want, but we have abandoned farms, destroyed production, precisely on the basis of these imports and not just from today, but from yesterday, but let's try to do everything we can to make it go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107149	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107150	My colleague Lucic, I will not... rob the Republic of Croatia but about the Law on Agricultural Land, namely, and criteria and points. They are unacceptable to us in HDSSB, but they will certainly continue negative trends. Earlier in your presentation, you said you were amazed by the amount of imports. Well, I want to talk about numbers right now. Looking at the past 8 years, so from 2007 to 2014, looking at imports of 19.7 billion dollars was imports, exports were $11.6 billion. So the difference or deficit was $8 billion. About half refers to the HDZ government and half to the SDP government. So one and the other, unfortunately, did not bring in agriculture and did not go with one of the good measures that we often talked about in the HDSSB. But I want to remind you, and here's the minister, we're often the last minister, but we've often written to the current minister from Osijek-Baranja County, and here's the other day we've been looking at 170 letters. suggestion, and sometimes legal solutions, whether it's a stock exchange, whether it's the Storage Act, whether some other mechanisms that could have been for farmers or for the regulation of the aid market itself have unfortunately not been implemented. It is not necessary to invent much, to apply those things that are famous and which are good, just to reduce the deficit, and Croatia imports huge quantities of agricultural goods, and our farmer knows the product, knows the quality of the product and places it on the Croatian and foreign markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107151	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107152	I really don't want to fight HDZ, SDP, HDSSB. I have an opinion on HDSSB, but of course there are always individuals in that party who are probably jumping out. Even you today who want to politically show how guilty HDZ is and how guilty the SDP is, but personally not the HDSSB ask you where you will be and when you will take responsibility to show us in the local, regional self-government unit so that you will do it better, so that you can do it better. And I really appreciate it, and I'm not going to talk about what people and your party are talking about, but lately you've been acting a little unfairly towards HDZ and individuals and people. What you're saying is I've said everything and I've been very clear and loud and I said I don't want to offend this or that, I'm talking about the interest of Croatian villages, I'm talking about the future. And until we realize that we all together in this House have to take care that we do not fight for the good of the village at the same time, there is no future for us. That is my goal, and that was my intention today as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and all those who participated in these amendments and additions. And I said, we've made progress. It's not enough. We won't be the ones to say we're in. We will be abstentions in HDZ, but we want and we want the Minister and the Ministry to do everything possible to correct all of this which we have not yet succeeded, and for the sake of the village.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107153	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107154	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Lucic, you said in your replica that Croatia needed an intervention ransom. Well, I'm going to be sarcastic, so I'm going to say that there's no need for an intervention ransom, because unfortunately our farms are being released today, stables, pigs devastated without cattle. However, what I want to say in this replica is practically from the independence of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian agriculture is not going in the right direction. Governments have been changing over the past 25 years and we never knew what we would want from Croatian agriculture. We don't need picks, we need small producers. Then we don't need small producers, we need big manufacturers. So for 25 years now, as far as Croatian agriculture is concerned, we have been wandering aimlessly in search of solutions, and unfortunately we have not come to a solution. In addition to that, here comes colleague Bubalo talking about the percentages of imports, exports, so we know that the export deficit versus imports last year is $1.2 billion. And what is often said is about connecting green and blue Croatia, how to make Croatian food end up on Croatian hotels tables. Unfortunately, Croatian food is no longer on the table of Croats, and hotel tables do not even talk. This is exactly where some consensus is to be reached and we need to clearly define what our goals are, in which direction we want Croatian agriculture to go. Because for 25 years, we haven't known those directions or goals. So is this helping young farmers educated who will know how to find solutions and help Croatian agriculture or are large systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107155	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107156	I represent interests primarily of a small domestic producer, but also of a great one. But not to give advantage to the big one over this little one. That's a clear attitude. Why was I talking about the ransom? Well, I was talking about a ransom that's full of farms. So we have to do everything to keep our farms full, not to point out here and give incentives to people to do production, and then all of a sudden we import meat that's old and I don't know how much we question that production we've produced. We've been doing this for years! Yeah, let's do something to bring back the green, blue wing we've been using for years and we've been writing about all kinds of strategies, and it hasn't come back to life. By entering Croatia into the EU, I am aware that we have no right to say, you can only use the potatoes from Belica up from Čakovec or from Požega-Slavon County, so let's do as other countries do to find ways to buy exactly domestic product. Let's bring together the directors of the company, the hotels right when we get the highest number of tourists. Let's see how and how that one of mine sells its beans, sells its potatoes, sells its onions, not spend 800 thousand dollars on imports of Chinese ports that we know of the quality. What have we done here? Well, that's where we have to make a revolution. When we do that, when we protect this pig-wrestle, when we tell him, under 10 kuna, you won't have a price, and I, as Minister of Intervention, will buy all these surpluses but at the same time not allow imports until I spend these products. And what are we doing? We import and destroy this one there at 8 kuna we stellate it with the price and the man must perish and that is why today the farms in Požega-Slavon County are empty. We have to fill them up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107157	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, here he is today when you really spoke affirmatively, specifically, reasonedly, and I'm glad that you mentioned our Committee on Agriculture to which you are president because I will really repeat it again. The 59th session of the committee was one of 12 thematic sessions. Very often there were heated discussions and you know it yourself and very often the deputy minister complained that we were a little sharp. However, it was only in order to come to a solution to a good law. And you said it right. This law is good, but of course there are potentials for this law to be even better. What you've been saying since the Land Agency came here one month ago is how many months ago the new director of the agency would have said "expert person." And I'd say that's how important it is and that's what we were warning at the HDZ Club how important it is to have professional people, experienced people with them. Very often, the minister was angry at all of it. We hear from my colleague Posavac that we hired godmothers and godmothers. Not a fellow Posavac to look into that ministry, so let's narrow down those godmothers and godmothers to the married godmothers and their friends, if that's what we're talking about. Yeah? What I wanted to say more and what I'll always support is what's good, what's waist. And I never want to let here from this pay phone humiliate any profession. And let me just say it now. Backwards, here are the Minister of 250 years of organized Croatian forestry between now 14000 graduate foresters, among which are doctors of science, masters...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107159	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica. ... Yes, because I'm warning you. [[You can't hear dusk, you can't hear it.]] I'm warning you all the time, everyone you're talking about, to stick to your time. Some constantly pass the time, but so conceive a replica or a reply to the replica to say it in two minutes. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107160	Okay, let's say I'm one of those guys because today's vice president let me, so here's how it's not just one-sided. Here, thank you very much. My colleagues, yes, we have just done everything on our Committee on Agriculture to make a move in writing amendments and additions to this Agricultural Land Act. And I say once again we've succeeded, but not entirely, and of course we're not completely satisfied. But what was done yesterday was very much done because with these amendments and the additions of the law we will make that man who has to deal with agriculture in his place more carefree, that he does not think that he will simply be left without land. That the man who's been working on production so far we're letting him know that he's gonna be able to continue his production that wasn't the case so far. We have economies, we have those people and farms that have run out of land in this past time period of wandering and searching how and how to make a new law. But in my opinion, the biggest mistake is the biggest mistake, and I'm giving it to you, which is 2.5 for almost 3 years, not nearly 3 years, without you doing anything about the law. Now you've just put it into operation with these changes and additions and in 2008, if you'd left it, you could've corrected it a little bit, and it would've worked. I'm not going to tell your folks, but by amending the 2013 law, you've just contributed to the stagnation of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why today I have the courage and the guts to say we've made progress no matter what we're in opposition and continue on that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107161	Thank you very much. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107162	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic is very important that here when we speak, we speak truthfully and responsibly. I consider that in that sense and your statement when you said that at the agency... The system was employed by unprofessional party people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't understand this statement very well because it seems to me that in this statement you speak against yourself. Because you're in politics, and in 2009, when the agency was founded, your party ran the state through your government. Then they're probably working these people, I didn't realize it until the end. I find it not good to speak in this way and, of course, it is not necessary to put party membership with expertise in the context. A man can be party-owned, he can be professional, he can also be unprofessional and if he's not party-owned. So, I don't think, I don't share that thinking, I think you should step more responsibly here in the Croatian Parliament. As for these three years you keep talking about here, it's been pointed out, and the minister has said it several times, we didn't actually have 552 thousand acres as many in the programs. Often these programs have been verified without accurate data being found in them. The subsequent data collection established that there are 738 thousand hectares of the country. So we didn't know how much land we had, we didn't have a book of closed contracts and neither did the book of paying rents. In that sense, I agree with you that in time you would not only bring these amendments and additions to the law. And it's good to be here. And to mention immediately the Law of COMMASSATION that will introduce order into the land. Today, agriculture is the main problem of a weaned plot. And as for those 1.5 billion, and I don't understand that the budget cuts because the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is for 2015. 6 billion and 387 million kuna, which is 40% higher compared to 2014. Now I don't know where you found that billion and a half? I'd have more to say, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107163	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107164	My dear colleague, who also comes from Slavonia, so I don't understand that now you're asking me what billion and a half? So a billion and a half since you came to power to this day. Don't talk about the funds that will come to you from the EU where we're going to increase, it's just something else. I've been talking about the last three years where we just destroyed agricultural production in those three years, that's what I'm talking about. Leave the funds that will come to you based on the rural development program of this or that. When we talk about the profession, of course I'm talking about the profession, the geodetics and the agronomics aren't the same. Not underestimating either but when it comes to land, about distribution, about measurements, then it's a geodetic for it and it's good that you've set up a man who knows how to do it. The last two didn't know no offense, but for three years we've been standing and where are we? We're here, we didn't move. What are we talking about? So I'm talking about credibility, about data, I'm not talking in my head. And I don't want to offend anyone. Whatever I want to say now, I'm saying it wasn't good before. And I'm even saying that during HDZ, some things weren't good. But don't insult those who have negotiated the EU, too, to say that it was not good. So if it wasn't for those people anywhere today you and your government would be running the policy if it hadn't been negotiated? Negotiators were the ones who did this before the Kukurik coalition arrived. And that's why I'm talking about three years of losing. We've been wandering for three years. True, we managed to organize ourselves in some way, but we spent three years suddenly, and we didn't do what people expected of us. That's what you'll feel best in the election at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107165	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107166	Thank you. I would certainly agree with you if you knew a lot about agriculture, from me you probably know a lot more about agriculture and agriculture and forestry as well. When it comes to the fact that the HDSSB and how it will take responsibility a few days ago, farmers from Slavonia have just unanimously supported a large gathering and the HDSSB will also support the candidacy of one of the experts in the HDZB's ranks as Minister of Agriculture in the future Croatian government. We have a program, we have people, and it will be very autumn and unequivocally our contribution the HDSSB will make in Croatian agriculture, if God gives health to the national government. And as far as the results of Croatian agriculture are concerned, I am not really the one who can analyze why failure is so much, but it is evident that the failure of Croatian agricultural policy is huge in the last decade and that it has been in a hurry in the last three years, which is actually all relevant data that whatever data they want taken on the scale of production, which is, according to the only items of production, which, by the use of land, which by the results. And I agree with you that, in fact, the obvious answer is in the strategy and that Croatian agriculture will probably need to define again and fully one completely different strategy from this one that has actually marked the previous decade and maybe it is two previous decades, because the current result and the present state are in no way really giving us confidence and to expect it, and I don't know for any other indication that in fact the collapse of Croatian agriculture which has now only continued in this year and in the years that come if something really doesn't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107167	Thank you. Franjo Lucic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107168	My colleague, you and I who come from different parties, that doesn't mean we have a different view of agriculture as well. Well, especially we people who come from Slavonia, noting once again, not seeing who's from which party we have the same attitude about agriculture. However, this man of yours who is safe and I know who your candidate will be tomorrow, so he also has a wish about what I was talking about is how agriculture will work, but first of all, we need to determine a strategy that has not been made to this day and that in these difficult times for Croatia, and especially for those resources that we have to allocate to import agricultural products and spend them needlessly, we have to say how and in what way we will function in the future. And that's why HDZ's thinking, HDSSB and other parties that come from the left when Slavonia's interest is unique and we have to show consensus and for those people who come from both the south and they have agriculture, so it's not just agriculture in Slavonia. And in the Straight Kotars there is agriculture, and fruit growing and vineyarding. So all of Croatia is agriculture and we have to produce that food that will be sufficient. Turks are sufficient in agricultural production not only for themselves, the sixth producer in the world, the first in Europe. So can Croatia produce food for I don't know 4 million inhabitants? He can do with a smart strategy, with smart laws, with a smart ministry and a minister and with a smart government. I hope that time will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107169	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Lucic, I agree with you that the Committee has quite contributed to the improvement of this bill and in this it is the importance of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture which, by its suggestions, contributes to discussions and thematic sessions as much as possible to better provisions. So we can read from the fact that the contests will be completed under this new law, that's what we talked about on that committee. And just as domicillivity is involved, however, I personally believe that domicileness should be more significantly included in the criteria. Therefore, that criterion should have more significant support in terms of points. And when we talk about food production, so look at us today, I think anyone can agree with that fact land of enormous untapped potential. You mentioned the import of food, I'll just remind you that a few years ago, and we're probably still on that ranking list in the same position as the fifth country in the world by importing fish and seafood products, the fifth country in the world where we're ranked with countries like Canada, say, huge countries. Huge imports why? Because we have huge tourism, tourist industry. So it's not about food production for 4.5 million people, but it's about food production for another 11 million people who visit Croatia annually. So these are huge potentials. I'm not coming back, someone mentioned it as the '90s, so no, agriculture has been destroyed in Croatia since the post-World War II, since the industrialization of the former state, then every private initiative, etc. has been destroyed. Since then, agriculture has been destroyed and should therefore be discussed for 10 days for agriculture to come to the right conclusions. Fortunately, something moves forward, now there are many private manufacturers who brand well, make quality products. And about the quality of food that I'm not talking about, we should devote 10 days to this debate as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107171	Thank you. Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107172	I agree with my colleague Matusic, and here's one progress in the agreements as well, so in the talks. If it hadn't been for that, it couldn't have been done. And the minister himself knows those people who came from Ploch and those people who came from Slavonia. Personally, as board president, I asked the minister to stop all those competitions that were under way so that our country wouldn't go in an unsolicited direction and not to take it from the yard to those who were working it yesterday, here's where the minister also showed a solidarity where we said we wouldn't discuss the competitions that were under way until we passed the new law. We're going to apply the new law to the contests that were scheduled, I don't know 2, 3 or I don't know how many months ago. And here we are, and that's why when I speak today we have made really one progress, but still that no one is human, and don't let the minister be offended either, no one, we are here discussing a common interest, we want a good for Croatia, we want to simply do something good while we are here in this Parliament. Therefore, through one debate, through dialogues and because of these above you see this is the future of Croatia, these children are the future of Croatia because of them must write the Agriculture Act as they should when they are at our age not to be dependent on imports, that Croatia does not issue so much money and spend on food imports, they must be and agriculture must be self-sufficient because of them. So if we haven't done it today let's do it tomorrow precisely because of these children who visit us and who are coming to see what is said in the Croatian Parliament and what are the main topics. And the main topic is agriculture and this future of Croatia, which is the youngest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107173	On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107174	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a nice welcome to all of you to apologize for missing the first part of the session because I was in the government. I'll introduce you, take the opportunity to engage in the debate, thank you for the constructive and much less heated debate than at the first reading, repeat the argument, introduce you to the amendments we just brought to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about six amendments, the first amendment you got on the bench, but I'll be able to explain in a moment. For a period of one year in the provision that the lease and lease agreement for ponds is terminated if the tenant has not landed agricultural land owned by a state which is not in a function of agricultural production or has grown by several years of growth, that period of one year shall be changed to a period of two years. The second amendment equates the allocation of funds obtained from leases and other forms of availability to state agricultural land that are units of local self-government with a sales schedule when the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes a decision on the sale of agricultural land owned by a country for cadastral particles located outside the production and technology units whose size is not greater than one hectare or we provide or add to the intention that these units of local self-government may also be used to co-finance activities for the production of programmes, projects and other documents related to support measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. The third amendment amends the provisions on the conclusion of a contract on the temporary use of state agricultural land for a period of five years under which the Agricultural Land Agency could enter into contracts with current owners who used agricultural land and common pastures owned by a state without a contract to supply certificates of the unit of local self-government or the confirmation of a unit of regional self-government, requiring them to be located in peaceful possession of the same land in order to faster place agricultural land in office until a public tender is opened under the provisions of the law. The fourth amendment deletes the different sizes of cadastrian particles for the exceptional sale of agricultural land in the continental and Adriatic regions of the Republic of Croatia. We had 0.2 hectares, in this way we allow these tiny particles that are located outside the production and technology units that can be sold in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia to the size of one hectare. And the two amendments that are actually caused by this paragraph mean the amendment of the five proposed deadline of 8 July is amended on 31 July and we propose the entry into force of this law on the first day of publication in the NN to get as much as possible on time or the possibility of entering new surfaces into the ARCOD and thus enable our farmers to make their regional envelope available for support in 2015-2020. I have to refer to myself and take the opportunity to refer to a few of the statements that were here. The Agricultural Land Agency did not start working in 2012 when it became Minister Tihomir Jakovina. The Agency for Agricultural Land was appointed in 2009 by law in accordance with the Government's decision. When you talk about continuous or non-continuous good, professional work here I have to deny you whether and the former director had excellent, professional references, doctor of science, worked at the Institute of Adriatic Culture and because of the personal, family tragedy of losing a child was simply unable to work for a few months. At the time, we had a vd principal lady who worked for years either in the agriculture administration or in the agency itself until February 2014 when we appointed a new director. Neither Mrs. Goreta Ban nor Mrs. Micevic are party persons, they have no party card for the Kukuriku coalition. And when I said that the Agency for Agricultural Land was founded in 2009, I could read to you, yes, the vd director who ran it for a few months she only has a party card, but a non-party Kukuriku coalition card rather than a party card of one other party. But she worked professionally for the past few months until a new director was elected. When we talk about the selection of the Director in 2010 then I will tell you that the official minutes of the Agency for Agricultural Land on 19 July 2010 are the selection of directors. The second point, making a decision on the appointment of the agency's director, the former minister stressed that, based on the agreement of the HSS and HDZ coalition partner, he proposes as the director of the agency, a oxy candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107175	Thanks, buddy. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107176	Who had no conditions for the principal post. At the same time, he was director of the Department of Agriculture and at the Board of the Land Agency, that in three years from 2009 to 2012, some of the jobs made by colleagues from the agency would be much easier for us to manage...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107177	Thank you. You can contact us during the debate and only use the time available. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107178	Mr. Minister, obviously you don't understand anything that I was talking about today without any insult. So as much as I wanted to be correct with you, I still want to be fair, but when you're only in your presentation dealing with the past of what HDZ was doing, what this one was doing, and you're not going to tell what the future is, you're not going to tell what survival is, you're not going to tell what the strategy of these worse kids who were at the gallery five minutes ago. Well, Mr. Minister, don't deal with the past for God's sake. Well yes, the agency was founded by the Croatian Democratic Community, the re-accession negotiations were provided by people from the Croatian Democratic Community when you came to power to consume it. What are you talking about? Negotiations closed. So are we going to do 2009, 2010? So tell this Croatian people and this Croatian peasant how he will survive on his land, what his future is. As he will sell his products, Mr. Minister, he expects you to do so. He looks at you as God and you deal in the past, you deal in 2009. Well, yeah, HDZ started the agency. But I'm telling you that in two years you didn't have the ability to respect them at the same time, respecting certain private tragedies, but that doesn't diminish anything that you changed a man or woman who worked on it because the Croatian people and the Croatian village suffered. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Minister. And you're in the past, you're in dialogue, you're in conversation. You see, back in the two and three months, we've been through dialogues, and through debates, we've just come to what's important. Well, that's what people expect us to do, not to do in 2009, as you can say in your presentations. Don't do that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107179	We're in here and '45. and everything and everything. It would be wiser if... But I didn't want to tell you when these kids were upstairs, it wasn't right to point those kids at them and point your hand at them. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Still, it's not right to use children in that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The answer to the line of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107180	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Lucic, you've just been in your presentation inviting party people who run the agency. I just gave you the answer that neither the previous director nor Mrs. Mitchevic, who has been running the agency since 2 months 2014, are party people, written. I've also praised the relatively affirmative and commendable discussion that I've heard so far since I've been in this House of Commons about this law, I just need to direct you to one thing. You are the chairman of the parent board and we have talked a lot, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I, as a resolute minister, are the legislators of this law, we have assessed what needs to be installed into it in order to be better, better quality and more enforceable. And in the extreme case of the parent board, most of the hands, a colleague from the Kukuriku coalition, are so do not attribute certain changes to this law, to his own merits, but to the merits of the committee and the debate that was in this House of First Reading. We're always ready for dialogue. In the public debate we had between the two readings, a whole series or a set of remarks we got, some of them we built here and installed and we're sure we have a better law. I'm just going to refer a little bit to some of the things you said, you mentioned the domicile that's now better solved for the local administration. That domicility but domicility and young farmers as well as peaceful property so far have been in the proposal of first reading of this law, we haven't changed anything here. In this way we went to improve it to domestic producers, we had already given the first reading of the law the opportunity to score 10-10-20 especially if they were in peaceful possession and they couldn't do it through temporary use until 2013 when we put 53,000 hectares into operation and they couldn't do it on local self-government units until now. So I'm sure it's This proposal of the final law better than it was [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in the first reading and that will bring good to Croatian agriculture. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107181	Giovanni Sponza replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107182	Well, here's to the recommendation of the Honorable Minister, I'd like to look at two details, which I find extremely positive. First, this law proposes a new provision whereby the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a decision on the sale of agricultural land owned by the State for cadastral particles located outside the production technical units. And you are doing everything in the direction of achieving social, economic and strategic goals in production, which is what you have actually equated the Adriatic with continental Croatia. And in this way, you have indeed prescribed unique conditions, and you have created, or you have brought agricultural entities into an equal legal position. And the second thing I would particularly like to point out, and I pointed out in the first line, what I think is key and what you have suggested, and what you have advocated is that you have focused on legalisation for all those who are now in peaceful possession because that is what we do, we stimulate the OPGs, fostering agricultural production, revitalisation of rural areas, enables agricultural entities to withdraw funds from the EU funds and what is crucial is fostering new employment. And those are the positive things and that's the look in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107183	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107184	Thank you, Your Honor. You have made a very good reference to everything we wanted through the amendments and through the amendments to this final bill to be incorporated into the new law. In your previous replicas, you've noticed well and expressed your skepticism about a small number of people in the agency. I'm taking the opportunity to actually say that the Ministry of Agriculture only has six agencies that are related to their activities for the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to the Agency for Agricultural Land there is the Agency for Payment and the Croatian Agricultural Agency, Advisory Service, Center for Food Village and Croatian Food Agency. About a thousand and a half people. If we look at how important agencies are, at least agencies such as the Agricultural Land Agency will one part be teamed up and conjecture and work at 4 regional centres. We don't need to speak any better, if we take an example, let's take Poland. 40 million Poles, they have 2,000 people employed by the ministry and 12 thousand people at the paying agency. The Republic of Croatia is almost a thousand people employed by the ministry, at the 680 people's paying agency. One-and-a-half pomegranates, the Poles have three prominences. The Agency draws funds from the budget of the European Union for projects, for funds and for others. I'm sure actually, when I said six, we had seven of them, and we were doing mergers and reductions in the number of agencies for the next period, we're still planning to raise the efficiency of the work of existing agencies and the entire system. With such quality legal solutions and with the help of local self-government and regional administration units, I'm sure we'll be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107185	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107186	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, the only thing about these amendments is that you've given your reasons. So I'm sorry that you haven't already accepted this equalization of Adriatic and continental Croatia, because it would probably have been passed before this break that was, so people might already be able to do something with the ground. And the question I actually have here, since the May 8th change to May 31st is this deadline, until the date for applications for direct support, does he seem to me to be up to 15.6. If it's 15.6. wouldn't it be more logical if this date were the same by that time, I'm just asking technically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107187	Replication response, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Commissioner... Mr Hogan announced that by the end of April, the Commission regulation will expire on 15 April, which will move to the 15th of May for the entry of agricultural land, hence the deadline for the application of support from 15 May to 15 June, and then this deadline has been removed from 8 to 31st, in order to remain 15 days of application for support because these are the support that enters the system '15-20. At the European level, all farmers in the European Union will have an extended deadline. It is like the Republic of Croatia to us and we have supported the Commission for this extension by counting that we will receive an additional month for the registrations, i.e. for the implementation of all areas that will then enter the regional envelope of the OPG for support '15-20.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107189	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers of Agriculture. I just wanted to ask you not to think like our colleague Lucic told you that we are constantly attacking you. It's not. Sometimes it is small and constructive both for you and for us and for the best solutions to come up with. When I also spoke in one replica, I must say that it is the Committee on Agriculture, and I said that all the members of the Committee on Agriculture have made a great contribution to all the laws we have in front of us, which we are satisfied with in a large part. What I personally enjoy most is what we do at the HDZ Club, for example. the fact that the Agriculture Act adopted our proposal, that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, and thus this law should also be derived from everything. And then just when we start talking this constructively, then you guys are pulling out some kind of HDZ-time employment, and then I'm gonna take advantage of the opportunity for a few minutes, and I'm gonna finish it. I'm just going to finish what I started, which is that in 250 years, the ministers didn't happen to be at the head of the forest, of the Croatian forests or of the forest in general being someone who wasn't a forest profession, especially now that we have 1,400 graduate foresters among whom there are a considerable number of doctors of science, a significant number of magistrates, graduate foresters. Even the directors can't win, they don't go in the contest at all, not even the kind of contest you've been reading right now isn't. And don't tell me the reasoned Croatian forests are winning because they've been before. They used to be Croatian forests. That would be terrible if it were a deficit, so it's really someone to take to court and lynch it, but isn't that kind of weird to you? And then you set up at the beginning, and we warned at first, we set up an agronomist for the assistant. Now, there's a fellow forestman there, I'm not a forest man, but I'd be terribly offended if the Veterinary Authority were to run, I don't know, I don't know what profession I'd give.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107191	My colleagues, are you watching the weather?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107192	I'm done now. Thank you very much for letting me finish my thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107193	Replication response, Tihomir Yakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107194	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, in any case, by respecting this High House and the home Committee on Agriculture whichever time I can attend in person, if not, it must be at least the level of the deputy in the debate. Normally, we respect and talk because you're our parent board. But once again when I speak, all the debates as a legislator, as responsible members, as a man who runs a resolute ministry, I believe that what is well embedded in the proposals of legal solutions, what is not, no. And my finding was, in fact, that and what we had well adopted or discussed on the committees themselves, made the whole board, all the board members, not taking individual credit just to the chairman of the board. This when you mentioned the forest, although I do not know what it has to do with the debate on this law, Mr Pavelic as the first in the three-member administration, I will note that we had a five-member administration in previous periods, is not a forester. He is the manager and runs responsible and quality Croatian forests. You mentioned profit, yes, the former administration had an average annual profit of between 3 and 5 million kunas. In 2013, the profits were 110 million kunas without tails, no debts, no outstanding claims. In 2014, the financial year, it will be about 150 million. The trading company of the Croatian forest with fewer incomes because we have removed the parafiscal burdens of general forest functions by 50%, so 300 million kuna is less income of Croatian forests than it has... and previous presidents of the administration. According to all parameters of 50 Croatian companies where the state is the majority owner of Croatia's forests are the most successful. We're talking business and profit, we're talking about restructuring, we're talking about investment, no matter who's running it. He runs the one who's good, who's the manager and who's good. The aide who was appointed for forestry was a forester. I don't know how you get that... my colleague Rubin was a woodsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107195	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107196	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, an associate. We discussed everything in front of the club, mostly all of the topics that concerned the agriculture sector. We discussed all the legal texts and made our remarks and wishes to simply be constructive and that this segment of society, social production, which we consider to be one of the key segments of social production is introduced into some normal frameworks and that it starts to really produce without becoming a problem. We at the club appreciate your ministry's efforts to resolve certain matters legitimately. So, the Agricultural Land Act, the Agriculture Act, the Agricultural Chamber. Here comes the commission now, etc. are all good efforts to bring order into agricultural production by also sharing the opinion of some colleagues that it would have been a much greater effect if, in that case, a year or two earlier, and not now at the end of the term of office. In the Republic of Croatia we have some data about 99% of the area is defined as rural or mixed areas, and only 0.76% are urban areas. This means that according to the list in the Republic of Croatia, 24.9% lives in the city area, and 75% of the population lives in rural areas. This only speaks about the importance of agriculture, agricultural production, or the importance of all the laws that we want to regulate in this segment of society. We see that somewhere around 233,000 agricultural holdings, households are involved in production and that they use about a million and 300 and thousands of hectares of area of agricultural land. But what's bad on average is that somewhere around 5.6 ha per user. This is what is bad and what says that we should work on rounding up this agricultural capacity of these agricultural households, that is, of course this step should also be taken which one will come, and this is the Law on COMMASSATION, which needs to be combined with these small-sized parcels. We cannot help but look back at past events, i.e. past times when agriculture was the subject of considerable experimentation, so the previous government cannot be amnested from not taking wrong steps in agriculture. Thus, neither the previous Government nor this Government have now brought a strategy of agricultural production, i.e. the overall strategy of agriculture. That's a fact. And just because we don't have some kind of framework document, then all agriculture is subject to the influence of various commercial lobbies, and it gets the impression that in fact, the Agriculture Strategy is run by two, three companies, and that it doesn't control the process, it doesn't control the state as it would be normal. We can't help but say that in the previous period we had a concept that the country was divided through a programme of agricultural land availability. It was shared quite uncontrollably so that the mass of land, the mass of hectares of the most qualitative countries were actually taken by those who were in some other business and who did not have the basic activity. And what's left is a common man, a common peasant. So then you have two categories of users of these famous incentives, and that's those with a lot of hectares, over a hundred or a few or something more. In my midst, it's a very common phenomenon that there are hundreds and more acres of land. And of course there's a category of extra profit and that's very nice to live off that kind of incentive when you get 300 euros per hectare times 100 ha, that's 30,000 euros from the state budget every year based on the availability of 100 ha. Of course, when you have a little hectare, when you weren't able to get into that program to own or own a little hectare, then that incentive becomes a social category, or just enough to survive and to renew new production. And that's not good. At the same time we had a phenomenon that we had the state very generously aided agriculture and investment in agriculture through capital investments, so we have the fact that we bought very expensive machines of million value. And when you get one Yondir for a million kuna and you get 500 thousand kuna from the country in return, then it's not hard to be that big businessman. The question is where did we get those 500 thousand kuna back, whether we reinvested in agriculture or invested in something else entirely. The question of whether we, with this kind of agricultural or agricultural investment, stimulated domestic production or did something else is very nice is whether we have honored these large companies dealing with the production of tractors such as Yondir of Daiz, etc. etc. I just want to say it for another reason. Not all societies behave that way. Let's say in America, which is an example of everything, so be it, and there's an agency called the USDA in every state, the federal state of America has institutes that deal with, they deal with calculus annually. Therefore, by monitoring the calculation of the cost of services in agriculture because they have found that the largest costs in agricultural production are in services, in machinery. And they created certain through these calculations they created certain standards and they set production standards and these standards are included in the cost of costing products and these standards must be respected all. We were working the other way around, we were doing all the ad hoc as whoever wanted pretty irrational and uncontrollably huge money from the state budget directed towards the machinery. Thus, in such countries as America, which has become absolutely competitive in the world market in such a controlled way of buying machinery, and it is likely to show this with such a unit of cheap products now that this trade agreement with the EU is signed. All of us are going to cost production. So I ask the question why are we not handling such examples when we already do not know how to find magic formulas of our own production? It should also be noted in the previous period that there was one black hole in the whole thing, which is so-called. concessions no one will touch. Thousands and thousands of hectares were given by the state to concessionaires at a cost. So, there is data that concessions are about 50 euros per hectare for a very long period and they are the original income of local self-government among other things. The question is, how many local self-government budgets were damaged by the fact that we were giving to companies, we were giving concessions of 50 euros to trade chains, and the farmer pays 200 euros a hectare of the same lease. The question arises why local self-government leaders remain silent and do not say that they are cut off by millions. If someone has won in some municipality two thousand hectares of the country and it costs him 50 euros is not the same price as the cost of producing it as if it had to pay 200 euros as the farmer pays. So, if we don't get into the revision of these concession contracts, we're not going to stabilize agricultural production the way we're supposed to. It's not true that contracts are binding, they're only, in their basics, binding in formulas, if they're harmful, they're nothing, they're changing. And in this case, they're extremely harmful contracts. What's good is we have data that the agency in the last year, the Agriculture Agency, in the conclusion of new lease contracts, has slightly increased the price somewhere around 100 euros is now the average price of leases per hectare signed by the agency. Of course that's good, and that's how that one long-term anomaly was corrected. Also, a colleague said quite nicely why we destroyed the PICs. It's a theoretical debate. It went into a nonrefundable one good concept that would never return, just as organized cooperatives were. The fact is that in Baranja while there was BELJE PIK, there were 11,000 people, now that Agrokor is doing it, 1200 people. All 8,000 went to the Bureau on the state's burden. We say it's a good concept, I don't see it as a good concept regardless of the ideological assumptions of both concepts. De facto the whole of Baranja worked while working cooperatives and working combined. I would say about the law itself that he is acceptable to us because we simply want to create a legal framework that will help make land available in order. But we have an objection to article 12, so the economic programme, that's what everyone's talking about. We believe that really 60 points is an overrated category and that in this way we have bureaucratized the whole business because we have led to the fact that one who can pay for an expensive study called the economic programme can get 60 points. A peasant can't compete with that because he can't and can't pay very hard for an expensive study. The question arises what happens when you get a country based on that 60-point program? Who commits control of the execution of this program? We have a fact that we have had economic programs so far, so after 5, 6 years, no one controls the implementation of that program anymore and we have a mass of abandoned orchards and everything else in Baranja because it's no longer worth doing. So what I'm saying is the economic programme is not a crucial fact in this business. The crucial thing is whether we'll be able to exploit it later in a way that we stay on the market and not be swallowed up by the market. It's the essence of things. I think that this dimension of young people should be strengthened, and if we prefer it and we think it is good, and in Article 12, paragraph 2, where it is said about the score of the category of young producers under 40 adds another 10 points in order to really show the will to prefer the employment of young people, too, another 10 points should be added to the indent of f. where the preference of so-called. Domicile population, so add another 20 points and then really show that we want to prefer that so-called. Domicile population. Although I have this particular reserve, which means the domicile population. It should be domicile if with the place of residence for at least 5 years, not 2 years as it is within the law. Because if you guys can get citizenship when you're five, then I guess you can also be the home category of the population. Therefore, these are some adjustments that would be important for us to do in Article 12, and I don’t think they would significantly change the essence of this law and this intensities that the legislator wanted to resolve through this law. We also have one objection, Article 20, which refers to the inn, to agricultural land that is not in operation and is located under a multi-annual plant, it is said that when someone gets into the lease of that land, that is, such land must come up on its cost and give the wood mass to the Croatian forests. I don't see the logic because Croatian forests didn't cultivate or protect or raise that land and I don't see why they would have any extra profit from it now? Just because they're the biggest state concessionaire of the forest, that's not some particular reason. I think that the man who entered the business and the risk of disembarking would have to bear some income and even at the cost of selling that something, it is not a big deal, but it is illogically preferred by Croatian forests over some tenant. Otherwise by the logic of things in the legal category when you're on the lease, then you're renting everything in that case you rent and you find. So these are some things that are not of some crucial importance to our acceptance of this legal text but would greatly help to obtain a better solution. If we really talked about this economic programme not favouring it in a way that has 60 points for us, this legal text would be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107197	Giovanni Sponza replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107198	Here's an esteemed colleague, I'd like to touch on an important detail that you mentioned at the beginning of your debate when you said there was no strategy or we could call it land reform. I think it would be much easier for the people of the ministry and for us today to have an existing strategy, because when we discuss this law, it would be much easier for us to think about it with a forward-looking view. However, I remain in the position that this final bill is indeed a much better solution than it was the first draft of the law and remains an open question whether we are ready to open the debate when I have already touched through the provisions of the law to find through a systematic solution of interest between the Adriatic and continental Croatia in terms of agricultural production for the reason that the Adriatic Croatia lives by good work most of tourism. A very large number of agricultural areas are unused. The question is how much power we have, how much responsibility we have, the mutual statement of trust, which is exactly what we can definitely take such a terrible step forward where we will definitely have a significant impact on the overall economic national economy. With the arrival of foreign guests, large imports encourage foreign economies. And now it's up to us to face that detail, to live off tourism. Slavonia has always been an agricultural and rich end and I see no reason, so I will start with the example of Istria not to establish cooperation with Slavonia, come to this and really do something important for the national economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107199	Thank you. Mile Horvat's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107200	Thank you. Comrade Sponza, I appreciate your good intentions to join the so-called The blue and green transvests, it's one of the old things that's been talked about all the time. However, everything remains a floscule because it is theoretically and practically impossible to implement, or practically, because this whole story is in the hands of trade chains, monopolies and they actually determine the entire strategy of agricultural production and trade in agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia. In Austria you have one different model, one different environment, one other culture to say shopping. In Austria, you can't buy a foreign product before domestic product, therefore, the living OPGs, which is why small households live, and that's why Austria published over 100 million euros a day, or billions of euros, with some of its export potentials. One small Austria of ten million. So let's learn how countries that have moved far away in this neoliberal capitalism and trade from us, let's not invent our own models. I would very much like it if the manufacturer in Baranja, an apple manufacturer could connect with you and sell his apples down to you, but he can't because there's no one to buy him apples, because there's no place after picking those seven days capacitating those apples because there's no freezers, you which have mostly are those that condition amazing... Well, the solution is cooperative, I agree, we've been away from joining clusters and cooperatives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We had cooperatives, so we separated them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107201	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107202	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, you brought up a few good things and a comparison. First of all, when we talk about agriculture, we have to say that it is of national interest because indeed agriculture can be the bearer of development throughout Croatia without talking about agricultural production itself. And in other words, you mentioned that agriculture must be placed within the framework of market economy and market economy and you have made a few remarks, let's say, if we compare ourselves to America, which can be an example for us in everything and especially in agriculture, because it is, above all, the grain of the whole world. And that would give a few examples, let's say, first of all, one example is when it was on one show when a tornado destroyed Central America and then they asked a farmer how would he compensate for the damage caused by that tornado? And he said, first of all, they asked if he was asking the state for help, so what has the state got to do with the tornado that burned my grain? First of all, he must compensate for his previous income damage and the profits he had when of course there was normal business and of course there are both loans and credit conditions that he could complete his damage. And the other thing is when you think they're so rich that those big grains that they have to use their tractors and combines, there's not a few businessmen that have combines, who work for everyone else in the area. So they're not as rich as we are, which you said we're actually using a lot of resources so big companies can sell us equipment that we don't know about later. And you said one example that we also have to take care of each other. Slovenians have an example for you that 20% of all procurements for public institutions can be used without public procurement from the OPG. I think that we can do the same through the Public Procurement Act, and I think that it would certainly help those OPGs at local level and sustainability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107203	Mile Horvat's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107204	Thank you. My colleague, when I analyzed a little bit and prepared for this debate, I came up with some information about this American agency which is a very interesting thing. So that's one whole philosophy, so it's not just a finding that they're dealing with calculations right now. So one whole state philosophy is behind it. First, they have such institutes in all federal states, secondly, these institutes have an obligation to monitor this production, thirdly, to communicate with these great farmers and to give them advice, fourthly, that the right to calculators that are unique in such a big and huge space, a huge market. So they control the style of the market, they don't allow the American market to be subject to the verse that way because they've introduced unique calculations for costs that are then installed into product prices that are then because they're very rational calculations, so they don't have all the expensive John Deeres of a million kunas as you said but they have rational machines, and that's what the profession has to say, and we don't want us to like it anymore, so that's how we're going to drive it. That's why they're more competitive, because they're cheaper, and that's why wheat and turnips and soybeans and corn will eat the whole of European production in a few years, because they're systematic, because the whole country is behind agricultural production as a strategic branch and said food production is the future and food production is just as big a strategic thing as defense or something else. We're afraid we've come up with it differently. We said let's sell the land first, and then we'll do some trading with that country, and we'll do all kinds of manifesto. We forget that if we put an average of 4 billion kunas into various budget incentives each year, we invested 40 billion kuna in agriculture for 10 years, and now we have one of the major importers of agricultural products in the EU. There's something wrong with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107205	We'll continue our colleagues and colleagues at 15.00 hours. First up, comrade Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107206	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107207	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. This pay phone is a sacred grail of parliamentaryism. And if there's something you can't say here, and I keep getting warned about it where it can be. Especially in one country controlled media not from the government but from local policy, capital, banks etc. But to go to this law. The law changes after two years. Come on, he didn't last long, but it's good to change, and I think it's one of the better laws that came before us. Normally, one legislator can't predict all the situations, so I'm going to try a few of them on Istria's example. Who, for example, In Istria, it can provide for my court to unlawfully sub-data behaviour of the DORH which is 2 years after the law, meaning the law that we adopted in 2012 allowed the sale of 100 hectares of land to reach or own, property actually local ex politicians, businessmen, speculators, culturalists etc... Of course some change was given to the peasants. I always say that our peasants should be given blood because if someone felt what pain and sweat meant, then it's definitely them. Who can predict such haughtiness that individuals simply furniture hundreds of acres clearly by 1 to 2.29 kuna maximum or 15 to 30 cents. Then it is urbanized, it is projected above tourist points, hotels, industrial zones, gas stations, etc., villas and everything else. For example, a local sheriff they call or a grande sheriff buys how to buy over his employee into his basement some 11 thousand squares, the worker pays 2 kuna and this one buys it for 2 euros and then predicts no less than 23 villas with pools at that location. And then it sells. And then the man really asks the question where the minister, the agency, Cwitan, we know where they're going to be silent and who's going to be silent. However, something else is important when it comes to Istria or much more important, it is one battle ahead of us for 32 thousand 480 hectares of agricultural land. It is 25% of the total agricultural land owned by Istria County or by the state in Istria County. A farmland of 1889 hectares and pastures, meadows 30 thousand 591. According to the agreement on available facilities in forms of availability, and the programs were not designed by Labin, Lanisce, Pićan, Raša, Raša and Žminj, should sell around 10,000 hectares, renting about 15 thousand hectares, a total of more than 25 thousand hectares. So far, 1399 hectares have been sold for approximately 1.3 kuna per square. Of those 1399 in the area of the 1339 hectares. That's almost amazing. On the other hand, when we see long-term leases where the properties were planted in the vineyards of Agrolaguna and Agroproducers, etc., 1 hectare is leased for approximately 1200 kuna or 20 bottles, a little better quality and better wine. Why does Istria have 35% of the agricultural land in state hands? First of all, the options, or exodus that occurred after World War II. Some are gone, some are driven, some are escaped, some are evicted. And so there are 140 thousand of about 186,000 people leaving Croatia. It is clear that because of the options, these people leave property and ex Italy smells war damage to the former Yugoslavia. This country is state-owned and this cannot be questioned except for 5236 names that have been given so-called. release from Yugoslav citizenship. I said he intends to redefine 25,000 hectares or 245 million square meters in the Istrian County. What happened to selling agricultural land in Istria is worse than any conversion and any privatisation. What happens with these 25 grand can define the future of space. Let us release what we have in 5 years, in fact in 7 years from the date of entry into the European Union, and the foreigners will be able to simply acquire. The problem is what is privatized for the kuna up to two, which is already being offered on the real estate market today. The local self-government sold out almost everything she owned. There are no more hills in its possession. A new feudal caste was created, as I call a new nobility. I buy a hill for a white black one, bring electricity, water, asphalt, build a villa with a pool for which I get a loan for the pool. Look, this country gives loans to the pools, okay, but the people are moving out, people are hungry, instead of potential agriculture, small industry, crafts, which is going down every day. And then I'm told by some individuals that what our nouns fought for, and I answer them not to be columns, nor to be Pharaohs to their grandkids. And that's why I'm asking you not to do it. We now have one case, here Deputy Minister knows very well, of 180 hectares of agricultural land in the Rasha Valley. 180 acres that's 2 km times 1 km. The city of Buzet, all the settlements of the city of Buzet with infrastructure, with our churches, kindergartens, schools are about spread out. There are all the settlements of the city of Buzet. On the other hand, sir... and some MPs were asking questions about some lady who works at the ministry or some gentleman, I don't know now exactly, who got in the valley of Rusha 90 hectares, who has 1100 cows, who invested over $5 million, and maybe 10 million, has the truth in the possession of 300 hectares, but for hay, she pays 150 000 kuna a month. The case also reached the President of the Republic and the US Ambassador. It's not a problem for everyone to get to the ground, though. She can't be in... but she can't get around the law. If that gentleman from southern Istria needs 20 acres of them, I'm the first one to have 20, 25 acres, but don't go around the law and set up the remaining 160 acres for your comrades. I observe this law through Articles 9, 12, 16, 19, 20, etc. Yeah, what if someone hadn't planted anything in 20 years as long as he owned or said he owned the land, that he was working it. Buy a station for 15 000 marks, surround it with 5-6 hectares of state country and you are offered at the start of a million and a half euros, you will finally sell it for 2 million. It's not the way it works, gentlemen, and that's why what's best in this law, that the country can't be sold, but that it's simply for peasants to be leased. That's what I fought for two years ago, seeing what's going on where I just live. It cannot be in our interest to allow an even greater injustice after the conversion I would tell the entire Republic of Croatia. What is the same good intention of the Ministry of Agriculture, that the agency for the availability of agricultural land, and all the data I read, I read from their materials, should be located or located in Pazin and thus represent the interests of peasants in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County. This is also logical, why, because the incomparably higher percentage of the state-owned agricultural country is in Istria than in the Primorje-Gorski County. Clearly, with the work of this kind of DORH, there's no luck, but if we keep in mind that it's a lease, then the injustices are at least as equative as I talked about this morning can be avoided. It's not normal for gentlemen to sell one plot near Grožnjan at 2270 square squares, it's about the oranica, it's probably a building plot, and then it means county local officials are buying from the country 61 478 m2 for 140.8 thousand kuna. In reality they come into possession for 12,000 kuna and then over 10 years with interest of 2% per month they pay 1000 kuna or the chief comes to an even bigger piece of land, 65,000 squares for 138,000 kuna. State sales I said 2270 squares for a million and 300 thousand kuna. None of this is realistic, nor is it realistic, but this simply offends, and all in all I want to believe is that one of these laws will in the future correct one of the historical injustices that we have done to an Istrian man.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107208	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107209	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Cain, I agree with everything you've said and the data you've provided. Most of the time, it is so and it happened in Istria County, but it is a good thing that this law will allow both farmers and farmers to come easier to the necessary land for their production. You must have said the right thing because it happened before this law to turn our seen personalities in Istria, and even the former heads of the Office of State into agricultural land, and then the agricultural land thank God overnight into construction that they sell, buy for 2 marks, sell for 80, and show them according to the IRS that they sold 20. So this law will prevent these malfeasances and surely it takes our peasants, our olive grovers, our vineyards to get to that land and our income to remain in the units of local self-government. I am also stressing one concern that it would not happen then on that agricultural land although we have already passed the Law on legalisation to start up now illegal construction and then turn it into something else and then to get us to new legalization and then we will have a lot of objects, legalized objects, illegal or legalized on agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107210	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107211	Just one sentence. And then these people, let's say from the state administration that got the land down in Fažana, they become eternal debtors to those who gave it to them. And that's why not one or you have any problems just talking about such anomalies. It's good until it's still shot.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107212	In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Ivica Mandic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107213	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with the associate, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I will debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club with one conclusion. Often, colleagues can say that the laws that come from agriculture are not the first item of the agenda and therefore be few MPs. Here we are talking I will say about agriculture certainly at once one of the most important laws that significantly determines the future of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. So the most important laws. Why? The Republic of Croatia, by joining the EU in 1.7.2013, has a moratorium of 5 plus 2 years on state agricultural land. Therefore, this law is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia to do this important work in that time. When we look at which dynamics we've been working on the question of both management and ownership and land use, we see that we haven't been the best here. Furthermore, according to all possible rules agreed by the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia towards the EU and the common agricultural policy of cattle farmers, milk farmers lost certain rights in 2017 in support of agricultural production. Therefore, this law is of great importance that farmers especially can compete, write down a part of the agricultural land in order to achieve part of the support. That was for introduction. In the introduction, I will say that this law was passed on 11.4.2013 and that we saw that in practice, this law was not well applicable and that the availability of state agricultural land did not go the best way possible. And for these reasons, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have proposed a complementary and more quality solution to this law. And here I would say as a member of the board and as a member of the Croatian People's Party that the procedure in two readings and procedures in discussions and the openness of the debate was appropriate and that the board members and all those interested showed great understanding in the adoption of this law. And therefore it is no wonder that discussions in the Croatian Parliament on this law are very good and that they are more or less positive opinions on this proposed law. Furthermore, we here if we want to discuss state agricultural land and its use we come up with a number of problems that relate to this. I believe that only by adopting the Law on Agricultural Land, its availability cannot solve the issue of demographicism in Slavonian or Croatian villages, that it is an insufficient measure and that the situation in villages or rural areas is much more complex than colleagues have spoken. Because I am of the view that this is also my narrow specialty, that the situation in rural areas is in Slavonian, Baranja village, bilogor village, Podravina that these are more or less all economies that are difficult to revive and difficult to make them competitive. Why would I bring that up? That's what I'm mentioning for this very reason that by passing this law we here bring all production entities into agricultural production whether they're a family agricultural holding, whether they're legal persons in agricultural production. What is the intensity or the spirit of this law is that according to the performance and quality of each country's agricultural land is available, because the law does not recognise either small or large, or small entrepreneurs, or large. Either you're an entrepreneur or you're not, or you're successful or you're not successful, or you're competitive or you're uncompetitive, or you're quality or you're unquality. I think that this law is to the greatest extent possible after the long-standing debates and understanding of the Resisting Ministry that we have come to one of the good points that give certainty that this law will be applicable. What I would certainly say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Resolute Ministry has done almost three of the most important laws regarding agricultural production this year. The Law on Agriculture, the Law on Cooperation and the Law on the availability of state agricultural land. Croatia's interest in agricultural production being an economic branch and having seats as such. All the other ones think or comment, big, small, medium, better successful, failure I don't think is good. Because I'm going to say that there are a large number of small family economies that are quality, adaptable, competitive, and you should be the main bearers of development. What some colleagues are saying is that someone needs to get the land I'm not for such a supporter. Because I believe that as one of the most important interests of the Republic of Croatia to protect one of its greatest goods, which is the country, that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is benefiting from this country, especially those in great need, social, public service issues, all others. Because we have to make money on that farm to make things better and better. That's why I'm not in favor of making laws that someone should get agricultural land just because they live in the country. I am not such a supporter because I can say that a large number of agricultural holdings do not satisfy even the basic conditions of commitment. First of all, from professional, educational structure to age. I don't think we can build a future on that. So it would certainly be best if we had shown the real state of Croatian villages when we passed this law and seen how competitive this village is, how quality it is, and whether we can move on with such a village and family economies or such agricultural production. I am firmly convinced that the structure of a good part of family economies does not meet the basic criteria. What was certainly meant by this law to be used by this very important agricultural resource, the country, in the best possible way and to make this law primarily applicable and applicable. What I'd like to say is that agriculture is a very responsible, complex and unpredictable business. When I say this unpredictablely, first of all, I mean it's more or less the most common case that it's an open-air factory. So regardless of the agrotechnics and all the other knowledge, it may happen to you in one day that the weather will come and it will all be ruined. That's why I say it's very uncertain. And what I still think is important about this problem when we say that we are looking here and looking at only 22% of the country's agricultural land. We here, none of our colleagues so far, mentioned that 78% of agricultural land is in private hands, that the ownership of family economies, that one good part of these economies does not meet even the basic criteria primarily because of age and that there is great potential. For example, with rural development measures, measure 4.1 where it is possible that family farms, not large but only family economies can buy part of the area and that they can obtain grants for it. That's why I think it's safe to pay particular attention to these 78% areas that are in the original hands and that's a huge potential for progress. What I also do not approve of here I do not want to make any difference between family farms and legal persons in agricultural production. A large number of business and quality and competitive are both small and large and medium. But here, if we talk about the common agricultural policy and EU policy for the 2014-2020 period, we see that the focus is on small and medium-sized agricultural economies. Therefore, according to these criteria there is room but certainly taking into account that this must be both undertaking and competitive and quality production. What no one has touched, too, is that we have a situation that certain large systems are in the takeover of former large systems that have received one part of the land they have received are on concession contracts. These concession contracts are usually for a long time, which is not good because these concessions are very low at price. And the question is whether the family economies that are now going to these competitions can be competitive with these family economies. I would also ask the ministry for such large systems that thus ensure that some of the important land resources are reduced in terms of other support in order to get in a position almost equal to both. What I would point out in front of the club is that there are no one-way solutions in this law. That these are solutions that play a primary role in making agricultural production quality and benefiting the Republic of Croatia. What gives great chances and great opportunities to develop that the Republic of Croatia does not have sufficient agricultural products, there is insufficient production, and that in the time that has passed over the past 25 years has not gone significantly towards the better. I even think there was something worse. Because if we compare the situation in 1990 when there were 25% of state agricultural land in the hands of the combinations, that production was much higher in natural indicators than now. And of that total land, out of that 25%, a good portion of the land ended up in family farms. And this data would be supported by data from the State Statistics Institute, which is said to be the 2014 purchase of agricultural products in 2014 has increased to 10.26 billion by increasing or if we look at compared to 2013 it is 8.3%. If we look at these indicators in the structure of business entities and family economies, we come up with data that business entities in agriculture are increasing 6.9 billion or 12% and family economies 3.3 billion or 1.4%. What would certainly point out is that in this law, the most important articles of the 29th, 30th, which speak about the economic programme, and I believe that the economic programme that is very significant must be a significant indicator and profit and income, and that the economic programme that was in the public debate was for 2 weeks and that it recognized both indigenous breeds, and karst pastures, and seed, and healing plants, and I think this is certainly good. What I would also point out is that we support this part of the problem with cattle farmers for 10 years because we think that's how it's going to be helped. In addition, certain scientific and highly educated constitutionals can use agricultural land. We will be happy to support this law because we consider it to be a big step and it is very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107214	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mandic, you said that this law for you should not be, as far as I realized only to be good for small and medium, that you still support large producers and so on, and I will tell you that every law that is related to agriculture and which today has been passed I think that it was the intensity and Mr. Minister and all of us that every law would be in the function of rebuilding Croatian villages. And especially now you're talking about the common agricultural policy, so I'll tell you then, is the intensity of the renewal of the OPG. And I agree with you that there are also those who are unsuccessful, they will never be successful, they don't need the country, they've gone anyway and they won't deal with it, but there are people, here's the data of 750 applications, so for a measure of 4.1, that's worth 1 billion and 300 thousand kuna. Right now, there's money, and I think it's the Minister for 300 million payments in these projects? And there are no other values yet. So you have to wait and these 750 projects are quality 750 projects. It just came in, so it's a measure that supports the OPGs. With 200 villages, 200 villages lost in Croatia. And you mentioned 90th year and good results, I can't believe that in this Croatian Parliament, in this Croatian House no one, no one forgive me, I apologize, one part of the MPs can't understand that there was a Homeland War, never, that the country was under mines, that it was destroyed, that all these huge peaks were divided, that the cattle were untied, that the cattle were killed and that they should have started rebuilding somewhere around 98.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107216	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Đurjice, in my debate, I have been paying maximum attention all along not to bring any arbitrary entities into agricultural production into a position that is neither large nor small. I have repeatedly stressed that there are very good, successful, business, quality, competitive and small and medium and large. And if we recognize them, that's good. What I would certainly point out is that over the past 25 years, the issue of transition, the question of criteria, the question of development, and how we're going to be thinkin' it wasn't good, but that's behind us, that's what the president of our committee said, that's behind us. We don't forget what happened before, but we're building a successful agricultural production to make it both small and medium. Normally, small OPGs are more flexible, easier to change production, but when you look at the current structure of production in family economies, you have two possibly three productions and almost and therefore should be helped. Here we have come to this rural development, so you have spoken in this assembly and the program will not be accepted and it is not good. You can see that this programme has been accepted, that measure 4.1, which goes directly towards small family economies, gives results. And I'm very interested in the structure of these family economies that are in this contest, are they younger, medium or very old? And that would give about a solution to how we should form laws to develop agricultural production according to these young people competitive, entrepreneurs and build legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107218	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Mandic, that the country is, the agricultural country is definitely a supra-private category and it is regardless of whose ownership it is of national interest and should be taken care of overall. You well mentioned private land not only state agricultural land. But in that part of the state agricultural land, I disagree with your claim and the conclusion that it should not be taken care that state agricultural land is in some way given and adapted to those smaller than that it is generally available to anyone, whether smaller or smaller. Why don't I agree? Because I think that right now the state can make certain processes to preserve life, to help those who are weaker. And those who are stronger will be able to buy private agricultural land in the free market. Unfortunately, it's very empty and abandoned. So in that part they have a chance, but these smaller ones don't have a chance and they need help for it. And that's why I think it's wrong to say that it doesn't matter who gets it, so you've even mentioned combinations and production. Today you should think about absolutely encouraging association and in this law it is possible. If that programme of points for the economic programme fell from 60 points to 50 points, then if those 10 points were given to those associated with an organisation as OPGs, they would already encourage and preserve life. So this law must be a priority for preserving lives in rural parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107220	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in my debate, I must have pointed out that it was especially the interest of the Republic of Croatia to take care of protection from one of its most valuable resources, agricultural land, that's what I said. But this law preserves that land, the way it's used if it devastates. And certainly those criteria should be tightened if they are not available to this valuable resource in the right way, to be immediately interrupted. If someone has achieved as a cattleman he is not a cattleman, the contracts are interrupted and terminated at the same time. Furthermore, I did not speak in my debate that this country should go towards one, the other and the third, to go towards the successful. And certainly if they are equally successful and large and small, then they are small in advantage of the economic programme according to the criteria and everything. So that's what we agree on, and I don't see that that's the problem. As for the preservation of life in rural areas, I do not think it can be solved only by one law that there should be a political decision, a consensus of almost all the subjects from Parliament to the government, that the question of how to bring life back to those areas because these spaces that you and I are talking about are problematic. And I'm afraid that a large number of small settlements in rural areas in 30 years disappear. We can't do this with just one law, it can be a long campaign to try to change this relationship because it's important for the strategic security of the Republic of Croatia itself, especially on the edges of the population, etc. But with this law alone, we can't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107222	The third replica of the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107223	Thank you. My colleague Mandic, you spoke very carefully of concessions, so it is not necessary to talk carefully about it, it is necessary to clearly state the concessions that were concluded ten years ago on the ground are long-term and shamefully baffled. If you get a hectare of land per 400 kuna per 30 years, at the same time the state gives you 2.100 kuna every year incentivises on that country then it's a shameful job, it's a shame for the state, for the state's budget, for the budgets of local self-government. And we don't have the courage to talk publicly about it and get into the revision of those concession contracts. This is about thousands, thousands of hectares, of which some companies have. And it's no problem then being a successful businessman when you have to invest 450 euros per hectare on 10,000 hectares, and you get 300 from the state, so that's pure mathematics. Another thing, as the combineds were getting land, I'm going to tell you one example, so in the Municipality of Trpinja, Vupik promises to hire 100 workers and from 2,000 hectares of the council to give him 1400 hectares. After two years of these 150 are sent to retirement or to the state for care, it remains 1400 hectares. So that's the thing that didn't work out well, that's those bad moves that we've suffered and we've let them do. Among other things, the lack of confidence in this category of economic programme is because all those in the economic programme have just promised to work, to develop, to assist local self-government etc., etc. And in the end, it comes down to the fact that we only give the country and tomorrow we'll see what we want. And to finish, only now did the ministry go with very correct prices of renting the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107224	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Horvat, I didn't say shyly, nor coolly, I was talking about concessions and competition issues. If we're talking about agricultural production in the same position, it can't be me who gave 400 kunas for one hectare and one that has 1,400 kuna. And that's why I asked the competent ministry to take care of it through other measures to get us in the right position both. What you yourself said was that the concession procedure was respected, that the state didn't do it either. The state has agreed after the decisions of the municipal councils under the programme, and I also think that the people who raised their hands for it are part of the responsibility. What I would like to point out in this replica is that under number 1 the lease of concessions must be a public matter, it must be transparent. What is important under this law is that all those lease agreements or under this law all contracts must be subject to clear control and any breach of the contract or change of production or anything in the matter of losing the right to do so all. So, and this can also be done by agricultural inspection and can also be done by the Agency for State Agricultural Land. I think this law is good, in good spirit it's done. And I believe if we apply him to what he's like, he'll give his results.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107226	The last replica, respected Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107227	esteemed colleague Mandic. I claim and from your debate it is not visible that small OPGs are in a subordinate position when it comes to competitions, any form of competition, this time you're talking about concessions. I'm saying that for a reason because O.P.G., for example. in your area, let's Wolf, Široko Polje, Djambić cannot compete even though he has all the necessary machinery for one Belja, once Žito Osijek, once I don't know Ervačić, what it's called. And I understood, and I would advocate that these amendments and additions of the Agricultural Land Act be on a certain arm to go to small- and medium-sized OPGs. Not that they're written for them. And of course this domicillity when done, when the domicile population is reconciled with agricultural land in that case, in other cases those who are not from that area can compete. How am I from Slavonski Brod to compete with you in Široko Polje, Vuki, Chepina and people who have cattle, who have family farms in the segment of this very important agricultural land, are not satisfied or do not have it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107228	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Djurdjevic, so as I recall from the programmes available to state agricultural land that was a condition for distribution, could have been leased, concessions and sales. Concessions went for that land that wasn't geodetic, catastrianly arranged, and it primarily went towards large systems. They didn't go towards the kid. So I was talking about the competitiveness that more or less large production entities are now not to appoint them from Vukovar, Baranja, this part of Osijek-Baranja County they have received these concession contracts which are very favourable but which were regulated by law. And I don't think that in the same manufacturing branch the competent resolution ministry can allow unequal conditions. That's why I asked that part, you can't put the contracts out of force, break them up, but that this injustice can be compensated in some other way. Because what this law gives is good and gives the possibility of an emergency procedure to identify cattlemen, to recognize cattlemen. If family economies and family economies are ideal for livestock production, because this production requires commitment all year round and I don't see any reason for us to go to small family economies that count from 20 to 30 milk cows in one of our strategies. Because at the time I was still studying agrinomia, they were optimal models for the survival of family economies, and I think these are the right ways, but it should certainly be in strategy and opportunities and placements and everything else that binds to safe agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107230	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Party will speak esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107231	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard enough and I guess never too much about when we're talking about agriculture. What has to be acknowledged is that from the first reading of the law to the second reading of the law a very good and big step has been taken. And if we don't start setting things up like that, I think we're gonna have a hard time moving forward and dealing with these problems that we're talking about today. Who contributed to a second reading, or final bill being better than the proposal, is less important. That is why we are here and members of the board and parent committees and all parliamentary representatives that, thanks to experience, someone is professional, someone contributes to discussions with the profession the best and the best quality of what can be proposed, i.e. the ministry hears suggestions, whose suggestions, and thus implements them to the final law so that the law is as good as possible and as easy to implement. The problems in agriculture haven't changed since yesterday about the circumstances at a very high rate, which means that we all need to be flexible and that we all need to accept these changes rationally and consciously, and that we need to respond to them in quality. As we heard earlier in the debate, we must not forget that the country was devastated by war, so it took us some time to recover and move on with some kind of agricultural development. But also today, we must not forget that Croatia is only recently a member of the European Union and that agriculture is valid and is subject to very different rules than it was before Croatia was a member of the European Union. Both these new rules and these new resolutions, directives and regulations should be adapted not only to the ministry but to its mental set and to its thinking must be adapted to everyone who thinks in Croatia and wants to deal with agriculture. The biggest problem I think we have at this point and who we're losing so much in agriculture is that we don't have a agricultural strategy. So we make laws, we make laws as our opportunities dictate or troubles, we try to solve problems that we have in practice in the best possible way and to solve problems and to detect these problems is exactly the proof of this law that we are talking about today. So for a year, we've been detecting narrow throats, we're going to change to get our bottlenecks fixed, and we might be able to make some kind of added profit in agriculture. They were as we heard in history, or in the near history of the strange criteria of giving incentives, strange criteria of awarding concessions. No control of what we've shared, no control of what we've encouraged, and in the minds of a large number of farmers, there's been a thesis, so enough to have hectares, whether I'm going to process, how much I'm going to process or not, I have to get incentives from the state because the state used to encourage it, and if we're changing the criteria now, and it's not like that anymore. So we're all in trouble because then farmers say that they're no longer being cared for and that they're no longer being cared for by farmers. We're talking about centralised and decentralisation today. We are all witnesses, and this is what counterpart Cain tried to do in his own way to bring us closer, which means when or when local self-government managed state land and gave them to a concession. What we're definitely wrong about is that our exceptions always become rules, which those who break the laws that are in force don't sanction the moment when the punishments have committed a crime and then we're going to change everything all over again and then we say no more will be managed by local self-government, now they're going to run the state because local self-government is bad. That's where we keep falling for the exam, where forever because of one or for a few of them, and we're all aware that some practice that's not very legal is very often accepted because we see it simply as being able to laugh. So whoever did something contrary to the law needs to be sanctioned, but we can't afford to say that the laws are bad because the laws apply and the laws only work by people. Cain mentioned the situation in Istria which was, however, that he mentioned really has nothing to do with this Agricultural Land Management Act. So one is the reuse of agricultural land in building land, and the other is the management of agricultural land, so by the basis of this law that we have today. And let's not mix pears and apples, as we say, because then in the end, we don't understand whether this or our citizens find it difficult to understand whether this law that we're talking about today is something better than what we had, or whether it's something worse than what we had. So definitely what we have today is better than what it was until today or what's going to be by tomorrow until the law is passed and as it goes into service and it should be welcomed anyway. The practice of repurposeing agricultural land into building land and all that has happened around all this is the story to be dealt with by competent institutions, but certainly not by the Ministry of Agriculture through the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land. Today, we have heard many times in debates that we have a disputed article 26, and again, corruption and crime are being talked about, and here on several occasions the question of direct land allocation without a public call has been raised. I understand the deputy minister when she answered one question, and I ask the minister to correct me if I'm wrong, the land will be assigned to cattlemen who have their cattle throats registered in the register. So to simplify, which has a yellow stamp on the ear, and then we can't talk about lobbyes and we can't talk about importers and we can't talk about everything we've heard about today. Let's be transparent, let's be honest and say what it is. If the Minister at the debate in the Assembly says that this applies to the throats that are registered in the register where we get the right to tell us that it will not be so and that this is now about those importers who import thousands and thousands of throats, they put them in stables one day and then they put them in slaughterhouses the other day and put them on shelves in malls on the third day. So it's not as far as I understand relationships with each other. The second fear that is being put through is the possibility of corrupt acts being favored because there is no public call. I also understood that such procedures would give agricultural land to those who have throats, but they currently have no land and therefore cannot use incentives, so this is precisely why we would allow these farmers and our peasants who have throats in their stables to reach these pastures in order to be able to report for the incentives they are entitled to at this point and which are necessary in any case. So, another plus in this law that, anyway, is to say hello. But it's dangerous to distort what the law and the bill says. The problem I always have with me is the rules. So, we pass the law, but the rules again contain some other rules of the game and what perhaps for the future we should and what we should think for sure is that the rules must be an integral part of the law that comes to the procedure, because the law is just a framework, and then the rule allows everything. The problem of the native population and the rest of the young people in the country will not be solved by the Law on State Land. We must address this with some other policy, but certainly thanks to the two-week economic programme that has been under discussion and which has identified the problem of the domicile population and the problem of young people with additional points, we are going in this direction, both because of the European Commission's instructions, but also because of our desire for young people to stay in the country and to deal with agriculture in this economic programme, so we are also giving young and domestic populations. It's about whether two years is enough to say the domicile population would be able to talk about it. We've heard it for five years now. We could talk about it here, but I think whatever we have right now is better than what we had. I think our next problem is that we don't have any data on who or what kind of O.P.G. exists. So when we say a family agricultural holding, we also think of a large family agricultural holding in Slavonia that has several hectares of state land or several hundred head of cattle or a thousand throats of cattle. But under the O.P.G., we also think about our Istrian O.P.G. economy that has a restaurant, in the yard of 10 or 20 chickens, 1 goat, 1 sheep, and maybe one cow to let tourists see what animals look like. So what's important to us in all of this would be that we have a register of these O.P.G.s, so how much do we have to say big, small and medium-sized O.P.G.s? The activities that this family, the agricultural economies are involved in, because they are not all engaged in the same activity. And I doubt that a family farm that has no employees, no facilities, no facilities, nothing will apply to any public tender issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, or agency for many hectares, so that we can compare, so large and small. It's very important because of the number of employees, because of the production. The kid's important because of what the kid's doing. And the fact is that both large and small, we need to respect and respect and that we need to meet maximum for everyone to know that his activity that he has chosen to work for him can work. The economic program is going in the right direction. We recognized what wasn't right, and now we've partially fixed it. And I'd say one more thing, and that'll be final. So, the family holding for me is a trade or, therefore, every owner of the family holding for me is an entrepreneur and I do not, in any part, distinguish it from any other craftsman who deals with any other activity or any other business. This means that each OPG should be aware that for good business and quality business, first because of itself, and then only because of the ministry and all that the other requires of it must make a good business plan. So we have to study and we have to plan to make a good decision. I think it's the only message that's true, because if family farms as entrepreneurs don't realize how important it is to have an entrepreneurial spirit and how important it is to be innovative, ready to change, flexible on this market, that instead of the wheat I've been shining for 20 years, I've decided for another culture because I've received information that this other culture is well sold and exported. We won't be able to talk about how we helped the O.P.G.s, or how we helped any kid if that kid doesn't realize that he has to decide for himself what he wants and where he wants to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107232	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, first of all, I'm going to look back at your presentations that you started with the committees, and in reality you didn't understand the message of us who are saying that the parent board is who, here is the minister and the deputy now has no three, four hours to discuss the individual law and that indeed our proposals of all members, I don't want to single out anyone are well accepted in the ministry and are incorporated into the laws. What I mean is, we are a member of the EU and as you know, committees have great importance there. So, in my opinion, every parent committee for each of the individual laws should first make it a good one on its parent committee, and then, of course, all the other MPs to have their amendments and their debates here and you are, that's one thing. The other thing I wanted to tell you, that's what O.P.G. is. The first time a register of agricultural producers was created was then the OPGs entered. It was about 192,000, now it's 170 grand. So, it was a family agricultural economy. This is what every economy in its economy means for family members to grow. If it's cattle, they've got land, cattle, and they've been writing it down. We also have a register, we also have craftsmen who have applied as craftsmen from some of the family farms. We have small, medium and large ones. What I'm trying to say is, what we stand for here, no one has anything against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107234	Time. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107235	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade twilight, thank you for the replica. I would say to this first part of your replica, so bravo for the board members who have worked hard to bring all the problems that farmers have but also bravo for the minister who heard the board members and I think it's the task and members of the board and the minister to listen to each other. After all, that is our purpose. Thank you for teaching me what the O.P.G.s mean. I'm just trying to say here that we have different types of OPG and from my own experience now I'm talking when someone tells me OPG I'm really experiencing a little stone house where the restaurant, the bedrooms, the fences are so in most cases the OPGs are like that with us in Istria and I'm saying that when I go to Slavonia, when I go to Baranja that OPG is something different. And that when we talk about the O.P.G.s then it would be good if we knew for ourselves what kind of O.P.G.s we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107236	A new replica of the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Tyrelli, I often agree with you on a lot of things, but I must say that after this debate, I disagree most of the time. But I'll start from where you've now stopped for a suitable colleague of the twilight. Because OPGs are different in Istria, Slavonia, Prigorje, Zagorje, Podravina anywhere else, Međimurje, so it would be necessary to have a regional approach in the management of state agricultural land. And that's one of the fundamental problems of this law that he hasn't solved. And then we move on. You said you didn't doubt that article 26 of the amendment could lead to some manipulation. I doubt it, seriously, given the past. Well, there's always been manipulation with agricultural land, that's what you're talking about all the time. Well, then, isn't it good to try to narrow down all the traps that are now coming through this law and to prevent it? How do you stop it? Well, if we had a rulebook then we'd see exactly what's next. We don't have a rule, how do I know it won't be? A cow or a bull, I repeat, I don't know which way today, a bull or a cow, which is the point, what's the advantage in livestock? A cow because she's going to kidnap the calf and we're going to have a new bull, but our Croatian bull. Incentives, that's the point of the whole story, in incentives. Therefore, it would be necessary for us to go to a restricted area that individuals, whether natural or legal, could obtain state agricultural land. Therefore, it is necessary to limit them so that they may buy in private and encourage the ages. And not to allow someone to get hundreds of acres of state land and then encourage it. And there will be that again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107238	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107239	So I'm going from this last replica of yours. I agree with you that it has been and is and will always be corrupt shops and will always be done by someone but I don't think it gives us the right at this time to say that all the laws that are passed in this Croatian Assembly are only for the purpose of giving someone space so that they are engaged in corruption and that this corrupt activity comes first. Those who do so certainly need to be sanctioned. I agree with you when I say so, and I warned you that problems are always rules. In those rules we have defined what and how it will be. We don't know that today, and we have to pass or vote a law that tells us something. I'm an optimist, and I always think that anyone responsible for something goes with the best intentions and I believe that this law was made not with the intention to please criminals and thieves but with the intention that hectares would be given to someone with a hat and a fist rather than really with the intention that the deputy minister explained nicely this morning. That these pastures are given to those who have the throats of cattle but who have no pastures so that they can get incentives. Here, I believe and now if I'm stupid and I believe in someone I shouldn't trust, then it's obviously my problem. And I hope then others who are smarter will vote differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107240	A new replica, the esteemed Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107241	Here's a esteemed colleague of yours you said at the very beginning that a lot has been done in the area of agricultural development in recent years. In fact, something that is not visible, and behind which is a really demanding and painful work of employees, people in the Ministry of Agriculture, is a database or a record of property. In fact, property records are one of the very important problems and the topic we must deal with is not only about state agricultural land but about the total assets of the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned and positively expressed yourself to the political standard of this important law that it went into two readings and that its result between the first and second readings, this final bill is much better. After that, let us then when we have all touched that we need a strategy to develop agriculture or land reform to take advantage of this positive wind and then let us do our best to help both the Minister and ourselves to bring a roof strategic document on this matter. I agree with you that we really sometimes manage absurd situations to make exceptions our rules, so that on the basis of several exceptions and define and implement legal regulations. And you mentioned a politician from Istria where I will be free to make the following comment: the responsible politician always improves with his constructive proposals whether the legal frameworks or the general system and an irresponsible politician like this from Istria is ready for a few dolls simply to set fire to all fields and I believe it is unacceptable and inappropriate and even uncivilized.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107242	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107243	I thank the vice president at home and colleague Sponzi for the replica. So we agree that the strategy is necessary for us, I think the minister would also be extremely pleased and happy minister if he had inherited a farming strategy because then all of these laws that we are now passing would be easier to bring, with less responsibility, with less headaches, but we're fine where we are. And I support you here in your initiative to do everything or to resist the search for this agricultural strategy so that we really know for the next few years how long the strategy is going to be what we do, not just us, but everyone who thinks and wants to deal with agriculture that has information on how to invest, why invest, whether investment is worth it because if we don't have these strategies and farmers are literally lost in the fog. As for the database and the property records we heard today, we also heard that the databases didn't exist until a year ago. So we had everything, and we had nothing. We shared hectares, we gave concessions, we gave incentives, we said we ran a quality agricultural reform, we knew how to run agriculture and we didn't really know, the left didn't know what to do on the right, we didn't know what to do for nothing. In order for anything serious to be done and for anything serious to go first, we need to have information and information that we have. If we build a base and we run that base on an up-to-date basis, and if we put everything we're doing in that database, we have information we've given, why we've given, and if that someone justifies or doesn't justify what we've got. So we have control of the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107244	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107245	Thank you, dear colleague Tyrelli. I fully agree with your thesis that you said the O.P.G. should, so the O.P.G.s should be entrepreneurs. It was probably the ideal we were after the moment we made the idea of the OPGs. However, I think a lot more water will flow through the Danube while my pair, especially the older generations, becomes an entrepreneur there. What is happening now is that from 6 days of working peasants one or two must be spent in banks, FINAs, tax administrations, advisory services, etc. etc. And less and less becomes the steam, and more and more becomes that entrepreneur as he is. And I think it will take us a long time to get used to it, or our people get used to these trends that are inevitable. I agree completely with you. Sometimes, whether I'm nostalgic or practical, sometimes my uncle gets caught up in a service tow of two tours of bulls, the one comes to buy those bulls, pays for it, and my uncle builds two houses. Nit knew where the bank was, or where the SDK, or the European funds, the IPA, this, nothing did, of course, caricate things, it wasn't that, but it was definitely his to produce, to produce the class that was sought and to pay for it. Unfortunately, I'm afraid there will be no more situations like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107246	We'll hear the answer to this replica. Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107247	I thank the Vice President and thank my colleague for the replica. So what I wanted to put an emphasis on was precisely that no matter what I register as an entrepreneur whether the OPG, whether a craft, whether a simple society with limited responsibility, a command society or anything else I have to realize that I am an entrepreneur, I have to understand that I am responsible and I have to understand also that I have to have an entrepreneurial spirit if I'm going to be able to track everything that's in front of me. No craftsman gets incentives from, say, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises without a good business plan or business plan. In this business plan, it must write the same thing that the OPG must write or somehow defend in one piece and in this economic plan. And that's equality, that's the equality of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs in front of this vast administration here's where we're all slaves. However, it should not always be and should not always be so. There are good examples where OPGs and farmers could be relieved of both this part of it and going to the bank and going to FINA and being a lawyer and being an economist if they were to join each other in cooperatives in clusters, where then I would say 100 euros in monthly non-binding fees that would be paid to that cluster to have someone there who would just do these jobs for them. But we're careful, we think they'll fool us all, that they'll steal from everyone, and then we all want to be marketers and lawyers and economists and farmers and do basic activity, and that's simply impossible because the administration is burdening us so much that we don't have more time to base our activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107248	On behalf of the DC and Novi Val and the People's Party of Reformists, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107249	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen. And this debate on one of the laws that regulates the functioning of Croatian agriculture has again opened a wide debate on the state of Croatian agriculture, so I will make an exception on this occasion, and I will not be too long on this subject except to conclude that there are no innocents in this story and that for 20 years we have almost in continuity made wrong decisions or we have not had the courage to make real decisions that are sometimes unpopular with voters, but are correspondence with mathematics and common sense. The passing of this law and the way it was passed gives hope. Why? I will say for the reason that by looking at these last amendments sent by the Croatian Government but by respecting the access and communication of the Ministry and the Assembly Committee and the Assembly, it seems to me that one step has been made and that the ministry has shown good will to listen to the arguments, to respect the arguments and thus that the legislative proposal that has been given additional quality in front of us. On the other hand, the Assembly Committee had absolutely intense activities, and that's the way to go. As far as the law itself is concerned, the electoral law in 2013 has one key value for me and for us reformers, which is to force the rental of state agricultural land, not alienation permanently and the sale of it, because they could now lose an hour to explain why this would be devastating except in exceptional cases regulated by this law, which is that smaller border particles can be sold for the purpose of rounding up property. How I personally have had good experience with the amendments when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, and I have written this amendment on this occasion, and it concerns a subject almost regularly in all debates this morning, which is a possible abuse of assigned land. Abuses usually take place in the dark, generally bad things happen in the dark, and in this case things happen when the system is not transparent and when information about who is using, under which conditions the state land of the Republic of Croatia is not available. In this amendment, I was encouraged by experience as a parliamentary representative who wrote on one occasion the basis of complaints from farmers from Đakovština that there were abuses in the use of state-owned agricultural land, I asked a written question to give me a list of users and parcels in the Đakovština area. So I'm responsible that I can't get that information because of the provisions of the Privacy Act. Knowing what a signed map or a signed piece of paper looks like in front of the minister, and I'm guessing that he couldn't read that in detail, is it impossible, so human beings are impossible, one of his employees initialed something that may well have been established, but de facto is out of his mind. My personal principle, and us as parties that all resources that are owned by the Republic of Croatia or are generally as good as maritime good that all cases of privatization of alienation of state property, movable property must have absolute public characteristics, public availability and that all documents and that all data must be made available. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment in which the new paragraph 5 is added in Article 28(4), which reads "all data and documents relating to the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia must without exception be made available to the public". I hope, here I see a positive minister's reaction. I thank you for this occasion, Mr. Minister. So there's no need to explain. As a club, we have also proposed two amendments, one concerning better compliance with the text of this law and what will be a practice based on this law with EU practice and EU statutes, I will not enter into the exact details of the ministry will look at it and consider it. The second amendment also concerns the precision of the conditions for the use of agricultural land on permanent crops where it is explicitly prescribed that permanent plantations must be maintained. As far as the amendments are concerned, so much of us as they do from the club and from me as a parliamentary representative. Further thoughts regarding this law are another situation that we unfortunately have entered. We have entered because of the system's slowness in implementation and original law and the Ministry's intention to put as little as possible resources on the agricultural sector's disposition as possible. Unfortunately, the figures have denied us and so far there has been no realisation when it comes to the surface of some spectacularly significant and driven and some death line that soon points out the ministry brings now one measure that is reasonable, which is logical when what has already happened, let's at least solve the issue of what has been the apostrophysed problem of cattle growers without a country. We go to this model to get people into the incentive system by 2020 but then we have to pay attention to one fact and that is that when there are failures in the legal matter that then the lepers play their own parties and that those who are moral and who honestly show things end up being played. What am I getting at? It's quite clear that the hoodlums have come up with large steaks in their lives, found a way to transfer the country to sister companies and the hoods will come and already come and show that they have huge farms with throats on so many parcels that it's unlikely that the van can't turn around within that lot and the other parcels are on sister companies in the context of the big players. In the context of small players, of course we are, we are the people of David the Badger Ripper in front of the court who is brilliant when the system needs to be played. A part of the land owned by the family to the uncle, to the son, to the cousin, and then the peasant who did not change the condition of things will be relocated. Whether he's a trading company or an O.P.G. So, on this occasion in good faith, I warn the minister to think carefully about this problem because, of course, tomorrow, when some punk does it, especially if he's a big player, so when a reporter smells it, then the same shame will fall, maybe even bigger on the one who didn't stop it. As for other objections, interested ones, here is one of the remarks of the Association of Family Agricultural Economics of Croatia Life equalises the rights of OPGs and companies. It's the same story as equating the rights of craftsmen and companies. We constantly swear that we will help to develop small and medium-sized and all the laws that we bring in this Assembly leave in the wind, they for their sins and failures correspond to the received beatings and large players remain uncircumcised in practice and law. Even this law, if it is to believe in the family of agricultural economies, is not in its general context significantly different. Here is this amendment, which I have submitted as a representative, correspondence and, with their request under 10, to provide public insight into data on the free state agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's about another situation, and that's the Internet availability of data today as it is. Because it is quite clear that in this race, the requirements for the allocation of agricultural land are better teamed and equipped companies with experts, employees who can and have the capacity and opportunities to get information in a much better situation than the ordinary OPG, an agricultural producer who comes home broken. And its highest possible level of equipment and possibly some such medium-value laptop or home PC very likely tired, demoted and very likely informably insufficiently written to quickly and expeditionively solve their business matters. Article 26 and Article 25 may be leased, sold and not sold. So it leaves the discretionary right of the executive authority to give something and it doesn't have to give, that it can sell and doesn't have to sell. It would be good, we didn't formulate it as amendments, but we give it as a kind of recommendation, it would be good if it were more precise in the legal documents because when things aren't clearly defined in the laws then I go back to what we are very creative and intelligent and lucid as a people when it comes to playing the system. We will, in any case, respecting the fact that here, at the making of this law, show a higher dose of common sense and responsibility, both from opposition and from power to go with arguments, that it went really from all sides of the good faith and to do something that is finally operational, good for this country and good for farmers to support this law, hoping that our amendments, my own personally as representatives and amendments to the Assembly Club in that good faith, will be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107250	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, the respected Igor Czech Republic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107251	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, and today we have been discussing it all day. We consider it the most important document in HDSSB for residents of Slavonia and Baranja but also the entire Republic of Croatia. It is particularly important for those residents living in rural areas that, among other things, we represent in this respected House as representatives. Agricultural production was and remained the most important business branch without which, unfortunately, not only for us Slavons and Baranjce but for the whole of Croatia there is no prosperity. After applying a series of interventions and legal acts that were supposed to help the village and agricultural producers where are we today? It's hard for me to talk about it, but I'm afraid at the bottom. The peasants humiliated and who knows which way they've been cheated, I'm afraid they don't have faith anymore that the state wants to help them. Unfortunately, small farms fail under high pressure, and this bill will make this trend even more pronounced. Because if we look at the number of registered OPGs in the last few years, we see that this number decreases. Thus in the Republic of Croatia 192 620 OPG was registered in 2011, and in 2015 184 511 economies were registered. So in just four years, over 8,000 economies have been shut down, and when we multiply that number by the number of people who lived directly or indirectly from the agricultural economy, we see that the situation is more than alarming. I believe that the proposer should have also gone on to amend Article 44 of the existing Agricultural Land Act, which prescribes the allocation of funds from the lease of state agricultural land on which units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities account for 65% of the assets, the state budget 25%, and the counties only 10%. Countys as units of regional or regional self-government are the holders of regional development in their area and together with local self-government units run and implement development projects in agriculture. Since most units of local self-government have no financial or professional capacity to be the bearers of individual projects, the loss of these dedicated revenues also raises the role of local self-government units that will have income and will not be able to implement development projects in agriculture alone. Because without funds, the counties will be able to prepare project and other documentation for the implementation of measure 7 of the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020. How will they be able to participate in the co-financing or financing of the projects to which measures 7 of the programme apply? How will it be able to co-finance the development programmes and projects of planned measures under the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia? How it will be able to co-finance projects or programmes aimed at developing agriculture, tourism and energy, which are covered by measures under the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020. Article 44 should be amended as soon as possible in order to allow units of local self-government and county to prepare the necessary documents, which will be a condition for applying to public calls for the implementation of certain measures, with a view to making it more efficient and efficient to withdraw funds for the implementation of certain measures under that programme. Because unfortunately, such a law existing excludes counties from all decision-making processes and what is worst so far invested in the development of agricultural production by counties, municipalities and cities falls into the water. For example, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, about 132,000 agricultural land owned by the state, of which Osijek-Baranja County annually generated revenue of around 10 million kuna, which was directed and fully returned to agriculture through various programmes and projects. It's a similar story in the Virovitica-Podrava County I come from. It has 120,000 hectares of agricultural land of which 52,000 hectares are state-owned. The exclusion of cities and municipalities from the decision-making process, as well as the whole process of implementation of the state-owned programme brought by representative bodies of local self-government units, has led to even stronger centralised and is contrary to the announced decentralisation. By abolishing the programme for the possession of agricultural land, the agricultural land agency has taken over. The question arises how much land the agency has leased. Someone asked a representative question, and we got all the answers to our benches, and unfortunately that answer is not in favor of the agency, so we can see from that answer that in 2014, the agency concluded 65 lease agreements of 1442 hectares, and when the law was passed, the promoter said that the law's intensities would be placed in office of all agricultural land, and that the state would arrive if I cheated on 7 billion kuna, and in 2014 according to the contracts concluded, the annual lease amounted to 800,000 kuna. In order to speed up the entire process of available agricultural land owned by the State, it was necessary to allow the local self-government units to carry out their own programmes and to agree to the selection decision to be given by the agricultural land agency. We in the HDSSB want to point out the fact that such a bill favours exclusively large mastodons and large capital. And who's at a loss again? Agricultural producers who should help themselves and the state with their work and special results because the economic programme has its own components, and its evaluation plays a role as an expert willing caller, available to the necessary mechanisms, in addition to the number of employees, planned new employment, innovation of planned production. By observing the evaluation of the above elements, it is evident that large ones are making an advantage of the OPGs. Whether the OPGs in the economic plan will be able to name new employment, I don't believe, but I'm sure big businesses are gonna do it. Another very important item in the economic programme is the secured market for products intended to be produced. What this specifically means for the OPGs, whether they must have signed cooperative production in order to be able to place their products or how they will prove that they have a secure market. This item also places them in an unequal position against large producers. Unless the Government does what is more urgent in its 2011 programme itself, in 2015 it wrote that the intensity of this government is an attempt to connect small agricultural producers to clusters and to produce units in order to place its products, however, the mandate is expired and we do not see that anything has been done on this issue. That is why we at the HDSSB in order to help the family farms, and even when we first read this bill, we had proposals which unfortunately were not accepted, which refer to the very score of the economic programme. While our proposal was for the economic programme to bear 50 points, and the previous owner, if he is in a peaceful possession, carries 20 points, a family holding holding a family holding of less than 40 years to get 10 points, and the amount of the offered rent up to 10 points. Without these proposed changes, which we have proposed in the HDZ, Croatian villages will unfortunately devastate even more, they become empty. Many family economies have been permanently destroyed, blocked by performances and raids. Young people leave the Republic of Croatia and we are witnessing in an enormous number so that some places are halved, disappeared and gone. The depopulation, the eviction of the population from rural areas, has a major negative impact on the living and working habits and conditions of farmers in rural areas, and often play a crucial role in making a decision to stay on a small agricultural holding or to abandon it. It is very important for the future of small agricultural economies in rural areas to represent the model of social agriculture, and today the most widespread in the EU, which can and must exist together with other agricultural models, which characterize larger areas and stronger market orientation. Family farms have been the basis for a common agricultural policy since the beginning of the EU creation. Such a small family agricultural economy plays an important role in the employment and life of rural areas. We know that the average age in the family farms is 60 years, and only 4 and a half percent of the family farms are carriers younger than 35 years. So here we have to detect what the problem is and how to help these young people stay on their family holding to continue what their fathers and grandfathers were doing. Unfortunately, trends in stagnation of certain high income branches will continue. I would like to point out once again that only from agriculture, the VAT is killing 10 billion kuna, and it's going back 2 and a half billion. We could not see on the benches a law that would reduce VAT rates on agricultural and food products. Have we considered reducing the VAT rate to re-promatter? Today, we're witnessing from the government's session, and we hear that fuel excises are rising by 20 limes right in the middle of the spring sowing. What kind of influence will that have on agricultural producers? Finally, we must define a clear policy towards Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village in order to finally put primary production into operation, in the function of meeting the needs of the domestic market and exports, the development of the food industry that must create added value from which jobs will be financed and serve primary production. It's unacceptable for us to export against imports into a $1.2 billion deficit. Likewise, if we look at the self-sufficiency of certain agricultural products, we can very easily determine what we lack, and these are products that are mostly highly profitable. Almost all fruits, vegetables, meat we don't produce enough for our own purposes. It is alarming that meat imports increased by 30 thousand tonnes or even 51% in 2014 compared to 2012. The Republic of Croatia must strongly encourage the production of insufficient products, create competitive agriculture that will be able to respond to the common European market, protect domestic production by strengthening customer awareness to buy quality domestic products, but also to reduce the loads that burden our production and make our product accessible to our customer's pocket [[Intruder Stazic: Fellows quieter, please.]] Finally, we must stick to the creation of a Strategy for the Development of Croatian Agriculture, reach a national consensus on this very important issue and define clearly what we want and how we will achieve it. [[Intruder Stazic: A little quieter, please.]] I still don't see it with this bill of law, and I'm afraid that agricultural land in the Republic will remain just a potential we don't know how to exploit. Not to be ashamed of the law all the time, he's got his own good judgments. The attempt by the minister and the ministry may have been well-intentioned, but I do not believe that it has sufficiently defined certain objectives specifically regarding the economic programme and therefore the HDSB club will be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107252	Replicated Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107253	Dear colleague of the Czech Republic Dear fellow Czechs, you are as agronomist as I am. [[Intruder Stazić: Continue with the replica, please.]] So, I would ask you nicely, of course, and all my fellow representatives to refrain from the rhetoric of family agricultural economies, large producers, each other, the other are against the first, the government favors one, and destroys the other, etc. And let's try as experts to talk the next way. Whether these producers are large or small products of quality uniform food or uniform product. Or better yet. Let's talk about how much production per product unit is. So what are the standards within the EU, what are the standards in this environment where we are. For example, the average production of wheat in the Republic of Croatia is 4 and a half tonnes per hectare. It's six tons in Hungary. So I'm going into your profession now, but we'd have to talk that way. In agricultural combinations or privates if we can call it that because no more agricultural combinations the product is uniform, the production is per unit of surface or by form or volume standardised, large and competitive. So I must say again from this aspect that the small family agricultural producer, unfortunately in the past period, has not been prepared for the market conditions of business. And now we're paying that price with him. On the other hand, we did not develop cooperative relations, what I was talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107254	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107255	Thank you. So, Romec, I have just spoken in one part of my debate and warned about the alarming state, or the average age of family farmers, but that is why I advocate that these young people are allowed to get the first part of the country so that they can start some kind of production. Because, I'm aware of the fact that larger production per unit of surface is in large systems. Of course because they have employed agronomies, experts who know how to make better use of the soil and how to increase the yields. Much of these family farms are older households and they don't know, they have traditional agricultural production. But right there, and I said that we have to reach some consensus on how to educate young people, how to try to do everything in our power to keep them on their hearth and to say let's try to improve their production, production of their fathers. I absolutely agree with your replica and she's on the verge of my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107256	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, you have well claimed that there are still real obstacles to the Law on Agricultural Land where the economic programme carries 60 points and it is impossible to achieve those of our agricultural holdings that certainly do not have a sufficient number of machines to be valued among other things, so the expert prepares that are required by the call participants, the availability of the necessary machinery, the number of employees, the secured market for the production of products intended to be sold. At that time, it is not difficult to support agricultural producers who clearly speak about the fact that they will be without a country. This is already happening today in our premises and certain people who have used land so far simply remain without it because they are not competitive in these 60 points. These 60 points are a real obstacle and we must seriously say it is not good, it should really be put on 50 or 40 even points and then the game is clear, transparent and then it is possible to realize that the domicile population, that agriculture in rural space still lives as an OPG and not to take all the big ones that have clearly inherited or privatised PICs. We have nothing against them, but they have their own parcels and they don't have to continue to destroy the little peasant, so he'll be a cooperative team big, so it'll be the best thing to do. I ask that you, as well as the HDSSB club, as we do, continue to warn clearly and allow this to change. And I hope that the minister will eventually allow the economic programme and its assessment to fall to 40 points through the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107258	Thank you. The replica matches Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107259	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djakic, so clearly we always talk about this economic programme and we will talk about it and we will talk about it as long as this ministry doesn't start to change and that point. Because we can't go straight to the game if we send a team of O.P.G. veterans with some big players who are full of strength. I'm sure this team of O.P.G.s will lose the game, won't they? But just maybe the fact is that we didn't even try hard enough to educate these O.P.G.s and put them in a position where they could be competitive. Unfortunately, they're not doing it today as hard as they're trying. And this economic programme doesn't work at all because it doesn't respect them because of that point. And how do you help them become competitive? Education, education and reduction of points in the economic programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107260	In the name of the SDP club, the respected Damir Rimac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107261	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today, all day long, as of 9.30 this morning, the proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act is polluted in a second reading. We've heard all kinds of impressions, all sorts of suggestions, which would be normal if it were the first reading. In the second reading, more or less everything was crystallised, the more we are on the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, the more I must be open and say that we have often politicised, but in the last two sessions we have had very constructive, I would say the professional controversy, and especially after the first reading when both this speaker and therefore, with individual debates, a large number of MPs have addressed certain criticisms, proposals and suggestions, and what is very politically wise and ultimately politically and professionally by ministers and co-workers, and have adopted the proposals well. Which is what the chairman of the board has witnessed in his address in this House of Commons. But I think we need to be open when we talk about proposals of these laws, and say that whatever Minister Jakovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do, suggest or go out with some changes and additions the opposition will criticise and say that it is not enough, that it is not good, that it can be better, that I agree with. But at a given moment and in a given frame, this is currently the best situation we've had before. So it is the legitimate right of the opposition to disagree with something, the legitimate right of the opposition is to criticise and the legitimate right of the opposition that unless something wants to understand that it simply accepts it as a fact. Not so long ago, in previous discussions, colleagues looked back on young people and what this new bill or amendment and addition of the law gives young people, or d, but young people favor, whether it puts them in a more unfavourable position. Personally, I feel that I am neither young nor old that I am in some middle age, and I must say that it is not all about youth. So you cannot give a young man large plots of land, without experience, without knowledge, without the necessary advice or what Djakic was talking about, so without the necessary machinery. But let's stress whether in the past or in the past 20 and a few years in any way a small producer, therefore a family farmer or farmer, has been obstructed, has been prevented from joining in so-called. Machine or mechanical rings, it's not a notorious fact. But unfortunately, in our beautiful homeland, there are many times in our beautiful country, there are nadal things, so in every village, there must be a fairy tale in every house that will have the largest combination, the largest tractor and must at first be aware and it is not obvious that the most expensive machine, that the most expensive stand, that I am the most expensive object one not used, which stands empty. So one tractor worth a million kunas unless it works a certain number of hours a day, in a week or in a year actually slowly becomes an old iron, and people don't join together. However, in order not to get out of the context of the debate, I will still return to the scale of things, but before that another crackdown on young farmers or young people in the country, I will prevent them from leaving. So for several years now, the average, formal or informal education of people in the country has been very low. So when I say informal then I primarily think about people who do some kind of production so because they have disabilities that they don't have professionally trained calling they go to different seminars, different lectures, courses or any way to inform themselves. Unlike formal education, which involves secondary education, whether agricultural technician, veterinary technician or any other title that can adequately access work in practice in agriculture or higher education, i.e. veterinary school, agronomic college or any other college. I personally believe that people who graduate from college get only one breadth of the use of literature, the breadth of accepting certain new knowledge unlike a man who doesn't have it, but that doesn't diminish it and make it less important. But let's go back to the law, so what the promoter is in the preamble, let's call it the law recorded the need for amendments and supplements that actually arises, I would say it from two things, and that's the first thing the need to redefine and let's call it by removing legal institutes or legal loops as counterpart Gjurdzica likes to say that which slows down the process of availability to actually agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, it is the introduction of new solutions that will ensure faster availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the law and the function of unused land so that agricultural producers can actually achieve all their rights to pay for the aid. Under the new system of the EU's common agricultural policy. So I am not going to talk about how it is also stated in the proposal for material that the law determines the use of agricultural land, the change in the purpose of agricultural land, the compensation, the availability of land owned by the state, the land fund, the Agricultural Land Agency, etc. etc. I must again point out from this place that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture, in relation to the text of the proposal of the law, so from the first reading, has respected almost all the remarks or suggestions that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament have made but also informal associations or associations have come to the consideration. What I should say, of course, is that I have to re-express the law, so the fact is, and again, the notorious fact that the biggest problem in the previous twenty years has caused different operational programmes of pig farming or cattle production that have given people the opportunity, the legal possibility of entering a barn, to enter agricultural production without adequate opportunities to have a number of agricultural land or hectares per number of conditional throats. And that's a fact again. So, the agricultural land owned by the state until 10.4.2013 was available on the basis of a programme of agricultural land owned by the state and the programme, as discussed on several occasions by the municipal, urban, representative and municipal and city councils and the City of Zagreb Assembly, with the agreement of the Agricultural Land Agency. Now, in the past, if we take the period 2001-2011 to a total of 547 units of local self-government, that number has not changed more significantly, 398 or 400 of them for easier monitoring have delivered the programme to consent to the agency or it was somewhere around 73% of local self-government units. So, only 73% we still have one minus unit of local self-government that didn't do it. Of these 398 consent was given to 384 units of local self-government or translation if we talk about relative amounts as much as 96% to only 4 did not get consent. Local self-government units per counties that have not received consent refer to Karlovac, Istria, Međimurska, Primorje-goranska, Sisak-Moslavina, Varazdinska, Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Knin County, and it is very interesting that of the 74 units of local self-government that have never submitted a proposal for a farm land management plan owned by the Republic of the 74 units of local self-government are located in 12 counties. The largest part is the counties not located in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia but in this southern part of Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, although there are also those in smaller numbers, so Varazdinska, Koprivnička etc. I think it is very important to stress from this place that the most concluded contracts I thought my colleague Chešek was talking about the availability made in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County are 69%, Virovitica-Podravska 74 and Osijek-Baranja as much as 75%. Now, the additional problem arises today was quite controversy over how much this government has made available over the past two years for agricultural land, so I think counterpart Vuksic has come out with information that it is about 1900 hectares. Perhaps, for the sake of objective information from the Croatian public, it should be pointed out that in the former period, therefore, all former governments have since begun to give agricultural land into office, that around 48% of the agricultural land has been given. When you share it, what Minister Bauk would say to a simple mathematical division operation for 12 years then you get that the dynamics of giving agricultural land are owned by the Republic of Croatia 4% a year. So it turns out that this government isn't so bad and it turns out that this government, so these are mathematically exact figures, we can agree on it or not, but the fact that over the past 12 years 48% of the total share of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia is either leased or put into service. Divide 48 by 12 you get 4% a year. I'll try to be as specific as I can not bother my colleagues, so there's been a speech about why cattle are given farm land for hire without any kind of competition. The matter is very simple, these cattlemen received a certain fee, certain incentives and under the contract for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU if they do not get that land they will very easily lose those support. In addition, the new draft law or amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land I repeat went into two readings did not have an urgent procedure, precisely for this reason to remove all things as much as possible is possible for the agricultural land on which the farm or some agricultural facility that has not been in office for many years is also being leased. This has not been the case so far because it was partly considered a building land, so for some reason it was a solution to all this. The deputy also told Parliament in the opening section that the new amendment and addition of the law allowed the transfer of the lease contract or the possibility of transfer from father to son, and so far this was not possible because it was considered as a lease. So these are all sorts of things that will formally enable the resolution of the founding state or make it easier to obtain agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia and put into office. So the short question of domicileness was the same important debate. We know for ourselves that there was a right of rebellion, let's call it that in the county when individuals from one county received land in another county, etc., the new bill also places that part of the bill in favour of the favoured position. And all in all this bill of law can be spoken for quite a long time, I can see that I am already at the end of time, what I would like to say is that maybe one of my colleagues is going to replicate so I'm trying to prepare him for an answer, so why wait with it, why was it going so slow. It is, the fact that it was going slowly but it is also the fact that we only established in the 9th month 2014 a real state of hectares of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. It hurts me personally when I get on a train and I go from Vinkovec to Zagreb and look at the unprocessed agricultural areas that are healing. So agricultural land has, should be put into operation, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land will make such things easier. And in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I can only say at the end of this exhibition that we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107262	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Roman, as well as in a debate within the board of our agricultural council, we agreed on a lot of things, and if it hadn't been that way we probably wouldn't have made this progress today in making these amendments and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. You were talking about the position that she was always unhappy, that she always had some suggestions, so this is the law, and what I've been trying to say many times today has managed to make a consensus, not looking at political colors, but the interest of agriculture. And we did it, and I'm so very happy and happy, although I repeat this once again, this isn't the best law, it hasn't changed here and done all the things that are so necessary that tomorrow would really have a law that would consume farmers and that would enjoy it and achieve its good results. When you say that in advance when you're talking you're giving an answer to the agency, I keep saying that, it's been a mess, but it doesn't take three years or two and a half years and more to do nothing and then by coming one quality person to the head of the agency to just in the short time period all those backlogs are being made. I therefore responsibly claim that for two and a half years the agency has done nothing and that no results have been achieved. And that shows us facts, figures, and hectares, or contests that we haven't even called. And you know what I'm about to tell you, and it's a good thing we didn't call them because they'd make an even bigger tragedy that we'd been calling and selling, or by any chance, renting them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107264	Damir Rimac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107265	Dear colleague, I reflect on your statement, "I'm responsible.", that's what you said, I quote you. So I now responsibly argue that there are no best things, there is no best law because the law is rigid and the situation on the ground and in production is fluctuating. So you can't pass at a given moment the best law that will be applicable and best for everyone. That's where I think we can agree. On the other hand, you pointed out that the controversy we had on the Committee on Agriculture in particular in the last two sessions, so the last two meetings in my opinion had a far, far greater sound of a professional debate and a less political debate. Maybe that's why we agreed because we went from one side to the argument both on the side of the position and on the side of the opposition. So personally, in my discussions, I have appealed several times to move away from politics, let's step away from politics, and let's try to really talk arguments. There are people in this assembly who know something. No one in this assembly knows everything but those who have the highest number of debates, so they probably participate in everything. But individuals, with their life experiences, have yet acquired some knowledge. And in the end, only a replica of your finding that the situation at first was really unsettled. Yeah, that was the situation, but the question is going to you why was that situation so messy at all. Because I repeat, for the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues Jakovina and the Government of the SDP are managing the farm. So your findings are good. I think if you've referred the replica to me, I'm not the best address because you'd have to ask yourself why the situation at the Ministry of Agriculture has been particularly in agricultural land in the past few years. Minister Jakovina and the SDP government are the least responsible for this. But the other governments that were before the SDP government were far the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107266	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107267	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So you're saying that this law carries great newspapers and improvements that are consistent with the profession. The Community of County, the Community of Cities, the Community of municipalities, all came together to the President of the Parliament, and this debate was postponed precisely because of the important things concerning family farms. You still, in fact, rape farmers and family farms with your majority. With 60 points for economic programs. It's the biggest pain in your law that allows those giants to be the priority of all priorities. Through 17 items that clearly speak about what needs to be had, it is impossible for a small family economy to reach land. The general law cannot be significantly corrected since the 42nd article is being changed, it was supposed to go into a new law and showed what we were saying in the adoption of this law that it is not operational and that it is not applicable. The fundamental principle was to empower small economies. It is necessary to simplify the procedure urgently and make available to local self-government and to align the programmes with local available agricultural land strategies. The Agency would decide according to complaints or complaints, and this would be ideal in the profession, and would be jointly resolved in order to benefit all, in order to surely get the country of those who process it and who live from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107268	Damir Rimac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107269	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Djakić, you and I often know how to polarise this way, of course all in good faith and good will to actually bring about an improvement in the new proposals of the law, and to end up with our citizens watching us confirm or convince who is working on their interest. So the first thing I think you used is a very rough word and that's rape law. No one here rapes anyone, this is where it's proposed. It's in politics how much I've been taught all the things the relationship of strength, the relationships of the number of hands. So there's no talking about rape here. There is only a speech here on the bill proposed by the majority of parliament. That is, the government has proposed to the parliamentary majority. Now, little denials or replicas, i.e. the answer to your replica, you said small family farms won't be able to reach the ground because someone big is favored. That's right, that's your point. The second thing, as far as I know, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this term, together with the Agricultural Land Agency, is just encouraging small agricultural producers to join in clusters, in machine rings, mechanical rings, etc. And I can agree with your fact, that is, your claim that the fundamental essence or fundamental basis of this law should have been as you stated, quote "enhancing small producers" right? I ask the question why haven't you strengthened them in the past 12 years or 8 years? You had all the time in the world to put a small producer, a family farm, on a pedestal, where he deserved it. But unfortunately, you didn't do it. So as for the family agricultural holding of any type, I repeat, unfortunately over 75% of the agricultural holdings are not ready for market conditions at any time before and are not particularly ready for competition provided by the European Union. And I'm asking you again what you've been doing for the past eight or 12 years? Why didn't you empower that small producer? Why didn't you give him everything you wanted to give him now?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107270	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the individual, so don't throw it out of the bench. ... Yeah, and people are unhappy, he says we're not all together. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The individual debate continues with counterpart Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107271	Thank you very much. I don't know, Madam Vice President, it was my argument that encouraged the minister to come, I'm so glad he came back, I thought he'd already gone home, so I'm glad he's here and I say hello again. Looking at this debate today and all that we've been saying today and coming back in 2009, '10, '08, '07, I would suggest to the Minister that I do this last time today, and I advise him like I said today, and I would also like to be involved in the future and to say what we're going to do in the future, to say that and how we're going to fill those abandoned farms that we don't have to build today because in my Požega-Slavon County, there are so many farms for the production and breeding of pigs, livestock, that it takes us a long time to find a modus and how we're going to fill them. It's just another proof that our village has been working for the past few years, and by criticizing the previous government, I'm not one of those who only represents and says that this government is working best, that the previous one has not worked. So who in these past years wrote the Law on Agriculture during the Republic of Croatia, who negotiated pre-accession negotiations and I will not go back now. Let's not do that. Let's turn to the future. Let's turn around how and how we're about to fill these stables, the farms that are abandoned to us. Of course, because of the bad policy, we're not going to blame again on the name and last name of someone, but I'm sure we're pretty much responsible for what this very farm today is in this difficult position. I am a supporter and I really want to discuss progress in the future to see how and in what way we have found solutions, as we have found them in these past months so that today here in this Croatian Parliament we can talk about a law that has made one progress, but a law that has made progress primarily by consensus both on the left and on the right, and I don't know what to call these others. I am sure that this is good, and I am sure that in the future we must not only in agriculture but in general speak in such a way that the Croatian people would recognize us here in the Croatian Parliament to fight for their rights, while at the same time not dealing with the past, who did what in the past, what he did. This nation has no use for it, it only benefits the future. So I am also aware that both the Minister and we are all here, and we are particularly mentioning the amendments today. Well, these amendments weren't necessary today, because we were just through a parliamentary debate, through the thematic sessions talking about these five amendments, and we asked that it be included in the new law, because we didn't do it in time. Of course, they needed amendments and some, thank you, thank you. Imagine that no amendments were accepted, and that's what we were looking for at the beginning. Joining in the machine ring, we also sought in the beginning incorporated into the law. Why the machine ring? So, again, I say politically, here was the accusation that the previous government destroyed the peasant by forcing him into capital investment, and we're looking at the law in the first reading that that small farmer had to have machines and then we reacted and said, "Don't people," because you said the previous government was making mistakes. Now let's make it right. And here again I say, thank you, you've accepted that, and then what the opposition fellow Roman did wrongly, which has just initiated those points in agriculture that are important. Well, you know who best knows exactly the problem of the agricultural producer, so those people who came to our thematic sessions, those are all those people who deal with more significant agricultural production, all those associations, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors. So respected colleagues and colleagues, a meeting organised by the President of the Assembly, Mr Leco, along with these associations I spoke about with the minister, along with the director of the agency, with me as President of the Parliament, was extremely fruitful. And I'm sure that this meeting and these appeals and those people units of local self-government have contributed well, too, because, as you know, 555 of them. Do you know how many agricultural producers are coming to local self-government units? It is precisely with its proposals, with its demands because they are not able to all come to the Croatian Parliament and it is therefore important that we have listened to this cry and suggestions and therefore today we have a law in which we have agreed that no one is against the law. There are those who will be restrained and to praise today precisely all these days behind us, several months where we have worked hard to make a better law, or amendment and supplement, and I can tell you that we have done so today. I'm only concerned about Mr. Minister's economic programme, and I repeat once again that this very economic programme that only you decide to spoil if in any segment you negatively complete and change, you destroy all of our efforts that we have agreed on and agreed on. I'm afraid it would be a great shame, but I hope that this economic programme, which is 14 days on the web, will also be even better subordinated by the reduction of precisely those points in economic terms that cost 60 points and that you can further improve it to the welfare of those small producers. I'm also concerned, Mr. Minister, about the distribution of land without competition. I'm not so worried if she's going to be divided into the welfare of people who really need her. We've been discussing speculative sugar quotas these days. I'm thinking today and in conversation with many people whether these speculative land distribution methods may be non-competitional, but at the same time I remind you, Mr. Minister, that we asked you to put as many acres of abandoned land as possible, which has grown with high growth, to grant this land to those people who are interested in decommissioning and to put it in full production. You didn't approve, you said that you were afraid it was something that would be speculative, and here we share land and everyone is wondering today, and that's the biggest problem, so the distribution of land and the economic programme. If you persist in the proper division, if you show yourself there as well as we want the minister and that with those decisions you've given yourself the right to decide for yourself, then we'll be able to say that we've made good changes and amendments to the law even though I'm in favour of working on writing a new law. Because we've changed half of the 85 articles anyway. We could have written a new law that certainly would have been even better, but if we had started it long ago and we would not have come to the Zeit not in time, nor had we had to ask the European Commission to extend the deadlines. But since we left at the time when we weren't leaving on time, it happened to us that we're in a time-consumption and so we just crawled in so that we had to change things by a certain time. But if we had started on time, we could have had an even more constructive debate, and I'm sure we would have passed even better laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107272	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107273	Dear fellow Lucic, therefore, no more institutes to correct an incorrect quote through the replica, I will warn you. So, as far as I know, the president of the Croatian Parliament is Leko, not Lucic. In the debate you said you were the president of the Croatian Parliament, so it is a kind of lapus chalami or acceptable. All right, let's move on. So, first thing. In the introduction, you mentioned empty farms in Virovitica-Podravska County, there are them throughout the Republic of Croatia in this continental part and empty pig farms and empty cattle farms. I must warn you that most of that farm is mostly empty for several reasons. The first reason is wandering, therefore political wandering, productive wandering, etc. I'll bring up the operational programs again. Then the diseases that have occurred on these farms, the production regression on those farms, the abandonment, all of which tells you that it is the result of some of the former times. So these farms are abandoned and that production has stopped for some reason. But I have to mention another very fresh detail, which is the former prime minister, Mrs. Kosor, on several occasions, has been calling public tenders to advertise a job in the Shepherds' Face or how the people want to say it to the shepherds. They're paid by 1,000 euros, no one wanted to apply for that part. So we have to talk about these facts, too. And of course, the manufacturers will reiterate that they must accept market requirements and uniformise and standardise their quality product. Unfortunately, we still do not have a standardized product at family farms. We can polymize about pig production or beef production.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107274	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107275	Look, as far as the lapus itself is concerned, Leko, Lucic, but I mentioned President Lek and I mentioned the president of the Lucic Committee, but fine. Anything is possible. Farms. Well, of course not, I speak from the point of view of my Požega-Slavon County what I know. I don't know what's down there with this coworker of mine in the Kotari, I don't know where or anywhere else. but the fact is that our production has been destroyed throughout Croatia not only in Požega-Slavon County. Well, just when we're talking about wandering, we're looking for a strategy. Here's what we're saying and I repeat, Minister, we're moving on. We've got the Law of Compassion in front of us. Congratulations, let's go. Let's see how and how to fill what I just said earlier. But let's not keep dealing with what happened two years ago. Create in war conditions when Croatia bled out the Law on Agricultural Land, create a ministry, create the Ministry of Regional Development. So do you admit that the HDZ just did it? But I'm not going back, but I'm not going to mention it, so it was supposed to be in ruined Croatia when it was a question of survival, when there was an attack of aggressors in the eastern country, in Slavonia, in the southern part. The issue was that the idea of large Serbian aggression would be realized to cut Croatia into two parts. And now I'm asking why you didn't do it together. Well, if HDZ had done it all, then this government today probably wouldn't have anything to do with it. Well, it's not possible that you'll be doing everything in this term. And some other government has to do what you're not tomorrow. Well, it wouldn't be right when that government came to say look, you didn't do anything and you didn't make any good decisions. Well, that wouldn't be correct either. That's why we're together, that's why we're together. That's why we're together. That's why we're together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107276	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107277	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lucic, and indeed by amending 42 articles of this law, clearly confirms that the law was not good, had not received any results, had damaged the agricultural economies, had not been of no benefit to anyone and these changes that some have agreed to, let's fix something. And what's important is not happening, important, the land-gathering and the decision-making of who's going to be on the agency that hasn't achieved its goals clearly shows that something is still wrong. Representatives of local and regional (regional) self-government, agricultural associations argue that the law must lay the foundations that will ensure the long-term sustainability of national agrarian through a stronger development of family farms. And how is that going to happen when 60 points can't be achieved in any way? There is no time for users of state support to receive the most, so of course they have the biggest mechanization so far, the largest number of employees, the best program, all of what is in the 17 points of the economic programme they have solved. How will one with one small and one large tractor with 50 hectares of economic land with one production that is sustainable only for their family to achieve what is required in the economic programme? This is what we beat and repeat just because it's really not right yet. And why not give local self-governments to continue to dispose of land, and let the agency be a control mechanism. And there's the key to the solution and everything would work out. Here, I have to tell you and the Minister and everyone. In this bush lies a rabbit and should remove all the gaps that were in the current law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107278	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107279	I agree with my colleague that this very debate has been dedicated to redistributing this land without competition and economic programme. It would be a shame, but it would be a shame if all this effort went to the wind if the minister, as he has the right to make his own decision so on the economic programme, were to spoil it all together and we did not put ourselves in a position for what we have fought for these past months and days and today we agreed. Indeed, the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible. But I believe it won't happen. I believe in prudence, I believe in his loyalty to the very environment from which he comes, which is Slavonia and Baranja. And it must be shown that for the sake of the Croatian man, the peasants in Slavonia who indeed survives hard days today. And he will certainly prove himself there, and I am convinced that this law, regardless of what enables him to bring, by means of an economic programme, or you will get or lose, by means of a measure. And as for the agencies themselves and returning to the original positions of local self-government units, that would be a matter of discussion. The agency can work well if it's run by a good man. And I think the agency is ahead of local self-government because through people, if well organized, it can produce extremely good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107280	My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107281	Thank you, Vice President. So here it is after a whole day's debate on this extremely important law may be slowly becoming and pointlessly further debated, given that this topic has been discussed on all sides, that there have been a lot of words and ultimately the remarks of the associations that have been delivered to all clubs and representatives. But whatever this is, since agriculture is indeed one of the three most important economic branches of Croatia besides energy and water economy, it is necessary to talk about this subject, given that for a number of years, agricultural land has been a major source of controversy precisely related to the success of the agricultural policy itself. In fact, through agriculture and agricultural policy with energy and the water sector, it is seen how self-sustainable a society is. how able it is to only satisfy the needs of its population for food, water and energy, and unfortunately Croatia in this area cannot be overly commended with great results because, regardless of the good conditions for the development of agriculture as an extremely important economic branch today, we are importing almost 50% of the food, which seems to be of course huge damage both to the economy and to the overall social development. The current state of Croatian agriculture is, according to all indicators, the statistical, economic, social equally bad in all its segments. For years, strong processes have been working on the rapid reduction and gradual disappearance of agricultural production, and of course there are also markedly poor trends in the rural area that are exposed to declines and large depopulations. On a recent tour of the Eastern region, or Slavonia, I was amazed by how visible it is in the area of Slavonia, which in my opinion is our most important agricultural area. So, some of the causes of this situation are certainly unfavourable historical and centuries-old I would say political and economic heritage but also a lack of a systematic strategy of priority objectives and real sectoral policies, unplanned, unsustainable and misavailability of national resources and, above all, think of land, lack of awareness of national interests, possibilities and needs of the Republic of Croatia in this area, but also of the neoliberal political concept which is particularly prominent and harmful in terms of favouring large players and favouring powerful import lobbys, those lobbys that import food. Agriculture is being treated and managed all the time apart from rural development which is extremely harmful and we also have prejudice, there have been a lot of words in the assembly today, we have this limiting impact of administrations of different agencies and inspections and unfortunately political parties in previous mandates and I would say that in this term they have not worked in the public interest, clientelism, corruption and abuses are present. In my opinion, too, it is very wrong and I would say a harmful policy of encouragement. We invest very large money in incentives or funds we spend in incentives but without some concrete effect we have huge losses and a lack of control of the spending of incentives which, of course, leads to the guessing of certain groups. I, like many before me, would look at these extremely poor indicators related to the decline of the area of farmland and here I would point out that in 1960 we had 2.2 million hectares of farmland and today and in 2011 respectively, since I have data we are 1 million less, meaning 1.2 million hectares, which I think is an extremely worrying indicator. The total potential of agricultural state and private land is estimated at around 2.4 million hectares, and those data were just mentioned by a fellow Roman in terms of how much land was given to use in a slightly disproportionate way with the potential of agricultural land. Today there have been many words about how to actually assign this agricultural land, how to put it into operation so there have been dissonant tones, I would say in that sense whether to go as far as possible by putting it into service as possible in terms of giving that land to large players or protecting the interest of the OPG. I think that agricultural land should be circled wherever there is a legitimate interest and need, but I also believe that we must protect small OPGs, small family farms, because in them is the future of agriculture in Croatia and I would not say that it is different from the direction in which the EU is going because, at the end of the day, some countries in the EU, I would say and mention Denmark, for example, which has a particularly present farmed pig, the largest pig producers in all, pork throughout Europe. They show the markedly high harmfulness of the agricultural policy that is aimed at circulation. I was startled when I heard the data on how much the losses from those farms were, and I don't think it has to mean anything bad or unproductive. And in that sense, I believe that the great future of our farmers is to join together. I had several occasions to talk about this not only in the context of agricultural policy but in general different segments of economic activity in Croatia. I also think about energy cooperatives, not only means agricultural cooperatives but also other forms of cooperatives, because we have to be aware of the fact that we live in a society that is deeply globalised and that in a globalised world, multinational corporations are very often more financially powerful and influential even than many countries in the world, and by my deep conviction, the only way that we can have any chance of surviving as producers is that our agricultural producers are joining together. In this regard, I welcome certain changes between the two readings concerning these pasture communities. After all, you were commended in this context by certain representatives of the associations. I also welcome it, and I hope that by magic, such a provision of the law will not come out of the final text that we will ultimately adopt. So, as far as the land distribution itself is concerned, there's been a lot of objections from the Life Association, I guess there's been a lot of talk about it today. The remarks were that they were not actually respected, so I would also say the constitutional principle of subsidiarity or the availability of lower levels. I think that the rating system must be very transparent and that then there should be no problem of whether it is implemented with the central or local self-government units, but it must be implemented in such a way that the country is available to small OPGs and that they are encouraged, and wherever possible at the end of the day, association and cooperatives as regards agricultural factors. At the very end, I believe that it is time for Croatia to bring a map of the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia where all the agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia would be listed and where a plan-based approach to agricultural production would actually be defined because, in my opinion, no agricultural production can be successful unless it is planned. Given the large amounts of state land or land that is owned by the local self-government unit, Croatia has a great...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107282	Thank you very much. A colleague, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107283	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will strive to highlight in this brief debate some of the facts that preceded and the problems that preceded the adoption of this law and some of the basic lines that are read out of this law, the legislative proposal. It has already been pointed out several times, and this should be pointed out that state-owned land programmes have been set up for 552.5 thousand hectares, and of which 263307 hectares have completed contracts, so less than half of them. In September 2014, it was determined by patient data collection that it has 738000 hectares of state country. There was no book of concluded contracts and the payment of leases. Although the programmes were not accurate in them, these data had to be collected and pooled. These changes first and foremost allow cattle farmers to obtain sufficient amounts of land according to the number of livestock, because if this is not done, it is therefore directly assigned because, if it is not done, it will not exercise the right to encourage after this transitional period of three years. What is good is to allow land on which a farm or another agricultural facility is to be leased because so far it has been declared a building land and a solution has long been pending. In particular, the possibility of transferring the lease contract should be highlighted, e.g. from father to son because so far it wasn't possible. The fees for fishwater are lifted and we have the same unsettled situation, there was no fishing register until 2014, and from 19 only 2 were available. This sector used to employ more people and use agricultural products to feed fish. As far as grown agricultural land was concerned, however, according to the Law on Forests, the right to traffic by wood mass has Croatian forests. Of course it's decided to back off the lease price if it crosses the value of actually the cost of cutting rent costs. What is said here today in the debate on domicility is the standard of domicility, which is good because farmers complained that they were passing through in competitions for users from other counties. The economic programme was in public debate until 9.4. Many remarks were received, often both conflicting and some of course adopted. And it is very important that the economic programme is being boosted because of competitiveness, even though there are conflicting views but the only way for farmers to succeed in the market, and above all agriculture is economic activity is a good economic programme. The introduction of beginners and young people who receive 10 points from possible 100 is also certainly to welcome. Because of the comparison... the lease against the price of the concession. The price of the concession is 270 to 400 kuna while the price of the concession is exceeding 1000 kuna. Of course, it should be pointed out that the contracts were concluded in 2006, 7th and 8th, so someone else is responsible. In the end, farmers themselves have asked for competitions under way to apply the provisions of this law and that is adopted in the transitional provisions. In any case, the adoption of this law because of many of the problems on the ground should be welcomed and accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107284	On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107285	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I have listened closely to today's debate and I must admit that at least I am a proud minister, because I think we are doing a good job and that this law that is now in this esteemed House will be one goal only, and that is an improvement of agriculture in its entirety. I did not want to respond after the presentation of clubs or individual debates that I did not open up additional replicas and debates, but I left in the final word to respond to some of the doubts or certain things that have been presented here, and do not respond to facts or inputs of further confusion or to further explain some of the things mentioned in the debate itself. At one point in one of the first discussions, irrigation was mentioned and how important it is for Croatian agriculture or how many areas we have and how we can improve both bonuses and quality, but also income per unit of surface if we have irrigation. It is currently in the finalisation of five major projects of this government in irrigation systems from Bija Bosut, Baranja, Kapinci Vika, Valture with almost 12,000 hectares of new surfaces that will be in the irrigation system, I am talking about the results and projects that are being carried out within three years. All together so far, we've got about 18,000 acres that are in the irrigation systems, so we're undermining the surface. During the whole debate is actually quite a lot, although I thank you for the debate we have heard today a lot of concern and interest in Croatian agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy which is then really and therefore, in one way, I feel even more responsibility for me personally and for my team and for all people working in the ministry and agencies to do our work and reforms that we do to the end and do in the most qualitative, most transparent way. A lot of debates have been held again, this is what saddens me about the large and small, about protecting the interests of large players, about lobbys imported and the like, gentlemen in Croatian agriculture like, and this is what we heard in today's debate as a serious branch of entrepreneurship there are only successful ones. No matter what size their family holding is, what their income is through their business results, through the effect or result per unit of surface area, per throat, by the income achieved, you can see how good or bad they are. In our same Slavonia and Baranja, fellow Lucic we have OPGs that own 1,000, 1500, 2000 hectares of land, if we look at which category they belong large or small. Family farms are, in the system are some even income tax. They can't be reduced to the largest part of the OPG that has revenues by calculating the economy's income of up to 8 000... or up to 8,000 euros, which is also related to the rural development programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again, there are no large and small ones, there are those who are successful and who will, in fact, improve their production through this law and through other laws, but, above all, through the resources available to us, improve their production and arrive and be competitive, i.e. the average of European Union farmers arrive. A little bit about the data actually what the agency did and what we're doing right now because there were a lot of wrong, wrong numbers out there. In 2013 and 2014, nearly 67,000 hectares were placed through temporary availability. These are our agricultural producers whose contracts have either expired or have worked on those famous one-year certificates. Most of them couldn't even exercise their right to incentive. So nearly 67,000 hectares were put into operation that way. Five thousand 173.10 hectares, 174 contracts were put under a new law on a 50-year lease. And we had a sale of 46 contracts, about 56.3 acres. What we've said is that they're not a productive technological unit, less than a hectare with the aim of rounding or with the aim of achieving projects related to the very particles where it was sold itself. What we have also improved, we have improved that, which is the incorrect fact that the applicants or units of local self-government must collect all powerful certificates and other things, we have shortened the procedure, the agency is doing and obtaining documents from both the catasters and the grantovnica, from Croatian forests, water, construction, return, demining, environmental protection. So we've cut the number and steps and the number of jobs that need to be done by both end-users and local self-government units. And what's most important is that we've created an information system. For the first time, we have a real, whole system that's still being upgraded to be better, to actually know what and how and how we master. Comrade Žagar, in the debate, was repeated again by 553 thousand acres, slightly less we had covered through developed economic programs. From 262 to 263 thousand acres, we put it in some form of availability. And somewhere there's about half of it if we're going to look at that nomenclature of large or small, that is, companies and O.P.G.s. Although we have had in the past 10, 11 years since, as far as it's been, or how far the agricultural land has been available under the old law, the possibility of adequately putting all of these more than 460 thousand hectares of state agricultural land into operation and protecting the interests of small OPGs for what I have heard today is a lot of concern or interest. So we've been able to do this for 10, 12 years. This law will not make it impossible for them to do so. The most skeptical was actually expressed for the economic programme. Gentlemen, that you have looked at the economic programme that has already been made public and about which, public insight and debate has been made, and which has been defactoly communicated not only to you but also to end-users, according to associations, according to agricultural producers, you see that we have entered a whole series of amendments here. We couldn't change the methodology according to fellow Djakic, what you and some other colleagues are asking us to do with 50 points for a clear reason because we still have 12,000 competitions in the process. If we change the full assessment methodology by changing points, all these tenders should be re-scheduled or declared invalid. But a little bit of elementary mathematics says that through these 40 points, we are talking about 10 points on domicility, 10 points on young farmers, 20 points on peaceful property, with a reduced amount of points on the price, domestic farmers are at the start, because in the economic programme it depends on these categories that are even specified and made that total and detailed distinction even in the livestock sector can be collected through the economic programme. These are not expensive, complex and difficult studies that one should do, it is every holding family holding with the help of the advisory service that it is tasked with, and which it does on the ground, a good economic programme can be drawn up. It should actually describe its business, the way it works and put all the true data it has on its family economy. The unique home number, JUDG, the unique register of domestic animals is the basis or base on which it is calculated together with the data we have on the agricultural land used, whether state or private for the calculation of the number of conditional throats or insufficient countries for our family farms. It is very clear in the stated criteria that our cattlemen who unfortunately have not had the opportunity to win the country all these years, whether in open tenders or because tenders have not been carried out, have not been completed or have not been done in this way will have the possibility of temporary use with strictly certain contractual criteria as they receive them. It will not happen that after 6 months or a year someone stops dealing with livestock and retains the land he received for the reason that based on its production, based on its data, he has obtained land based on his economic programme. When we talk about this economic programme and when we talk about the way we can, about the new law, I'm talking about a 50-year lease, the basic economic programme. The obligation of users or landowners to submit an annual production report to the Agricultural Land Agency. Since we now have a unique information system for the first time, it is precisely because of the transparency we did not have back 20 years at our disposal of agricultural land as any end-user we will be able to click on the system and check in our catastrian municipality who is using which particle of state land. As a system, we'll be able to control whether the lease is paid, whether the obligations are paid. The inspection services will be able to verify, together with agency and payment agencies, whether they meet the requirements submitted for support for the production year, means a system of control and transparency, maximum. The amendment or suggestion of colleagues Baranović is welcome in this regard, but for this reason we have done a complex information system, that we actually publish all relevant data publicly and that any owner of the OPG, craft or company may have an insight into what is still available from the state land, which can be questioned by the tender or he himself submits a request if the unit of local self-government does not work sufficiently spotlessly or not, and we have such cases, submitted a request for registration and the agency will do so in the next period. The information system is something we couldn't do overnight. It's been done for months, but for the first time, it's fully regulated to its own unit of local self-government to the last hectare that we have owned by the state, which is the difference of nearly 200,000 hectares from what we've had through agricultural land distribution programs that have run units of local self-government and what we have now. Unfortunately, in the debate I also heard some things normally that as a resolute minister and as a responsible ministry we want to have as much as possible a law that is basic to us, one of the basic and most important laws and that we have listened very carefully to the discussions that were in this home during the first reading and what was done on boards, but we have also communicated and worked with end-users. Here are mentioned one of the two associations, hundreds of associations are actually in different sectors of agricultural production that are interestingly related to agricultural land and that we communicate with. Not only one or two who are listed here, but it was a broad debate and we went to install it into this law and here we are all what is good here thank you and I'm always ready to actually have a better law, so we have a better law to listen to what this home says. But I'm little, that's what I said to my colleagues in the Czech Republic, and I have to correct his debate, because exactly the proposal or amendment you had after the first debate on how to use the lease funds we've installed you in this law. You have now again criticised that this cannot be used to produce project documentation related to the rural development programme. You got it. You've probably overlooked the specifics we've put in the amendments themselves. Logically, there must be politics in Parliament and there must be politics and when I have reacted or when I have talked about things from a political point of view, I am a politician and I have to answer, correct some things that are not correct and that are confusing with all those who listen to these discussions. Croatian agriculture does not begin or end with Minister Jakovina and in the past 20 years for what has been done well I will always say without any problems that it is done well. For failures, I'll also indicate what was done with less attention or what was done wrong. You've never heard of me that everything about negotiations for chapters 11, 12, 13 has been done badly and to the harm of Croatian agriculture. I also argue that it is not done well, that we have made a mass of failures, you have asked me, Mr. Lucic, what are we going to do with empty pigs' farms, unfortunately we have failed to agree on negotiations and support for the pig sector. We were able to leave or only agree on support for fertilising sows, but for the tollers, for the pig-eating sector we simply left behind in the negotiations of Europe that we did not need it, and in this way we put our farmers in a position that they could not be competitive with the Danish farmers because their breeders have support for tow pigs, we do not. I can't fix that. But what I can fix is the same bad thing that's been negotiated, and I'm talking about the ratio of the funds that are provided for the guarantee fund, for support and rural development. The average for other European countries is 70:30, so the guarantee fund in agriculture, what we get without support projects is about 70%, 30% is a rural development programme. We unfortunately had a negotiated 54 guarantee fund, 46 rural development programme or 373 million euros in direct support figures, maximum legal envelope, 333 million for the rural development programme. Back in the year, a year and a half of the persistent negotiations we managed to adjust that part in some way, we got from the second pillar, from the rural development program an additional 50 million for direct support so that the ratio is now about 65:35. So we have 423m euros in support, and a little less funding in the rural development programme for which we have to provide and have good and quality programmes and projects. When I mentioned the rural development programme because of this, too, it was quite unargumented, back a few months but something here today, the rural development programme is one of the two strategic documents of Croatian agriculture, it is made by all rules of the profession we have chosen 16 measures with a series of reasons that will bring the greatest effects for Croatian agriculture and which will in the next 7 years and 7+3 because we are applying it by 2023 raise the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. It was a meal that we were late, that we were doing bad, that in 2015 there would be no possibility of withdrawing funds from that programme at all, which was mildly untrue. Yesterday, the first set of competitions was completed. I think one of my colleagues mentioned it, and I see Mrs. twilight has good information about the first set of competitions. It was completed at midnight last night at three invitations to total offer of 640 million kuna we had for these three competitions. There have been 848 applications for a total bid of billions and 705 million kuna. The agency's working three shifts today, and that money's gonna be, you don't have to worry that they won't be withdrawn. We would not gamble with the fate of Croatian agriculture, we would not call competitions if we were not sure that we did not coordinate all the open issues with the European Commission, DG AGRI and that we did not actually fight for all and those of Croatian agriculture that will be implemented through the rural development programme. It's confirmed and today we got a letter from Commissioner Hogan that our program was adopted among the first 30 programs so I think you asked if it was a letter. You can look at it on the web pages of the Ministry of Agriculture. Of the 118 rural development programmes among the first 30 programmes was adopted the programme of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia and we are starting it and therefore we decided to launch the first set of competitions at the end of January that our farmers were not waiting for the formal adoption of the programme because we knew we were negotiating that we could do so. The selection criteria of the procedure itself have been brought in line with the competitions. 25.4. are tendering for measure 6 for small micro-economics, which will add up to 15000 euros for beginners, for young farmers and small farmers up to 50000 euros, 100 per cent of the eligible costs financed by the rural development programme according to simple business projects. When I mentioned the strategic documents of the rural development programme and the direct support system of the fifteen-two strategic documents that are most important to us plus all the laws including this law that we are passing in this House of Commons are actually a strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture. We can agree with you, we can create a separate strategic document that will determine the development of Croatian agriculture in the next seven years or ten years. It must include and we have heard this in this House and regionalization of agricultural production, Rionization of agricultural production, a whole series of things. But if we could bring it in, we had to have a system, a regulated system of support, we had to have a certain way, opportunities and a source of funding for everything that was important to us for Croatian agriculture, and we did it through these two strategic documents. Once again, I thank all of you who took part in the debate on this law, I have not really had this whole day in Parliament in these three years that it was actually such a piety and good and constructive debate. I mean not that we wanted to show good faith, there have been very good suggestions in these last months, months and a half. Again, by taking any credit only to the parent board, it is the merit of all parliamentary representatives, but also of all interested associations of producers who worked on this law together through committees, through public debate, through everything we've got here. I mean, I don't know if she's a respected representative of Tyrelli, and it seems to me that her proposal was to fit in with women with an additional score through the economic program. And we appreciated that, so I think we have a good bill, that we have short deadlines and we are not Mr. Lucic asking for an extension, but a difference from those 118 rural development programmes that have not been adopted, and we are talking about I don't know 13, 14 rural development programmes of France or a large number of them from Italy that haven't passed, and these are old member states that have a lot more experience and already have rural development programmes for us. These were countries that initiated the extension of deadlines and the possibility of enrolment due to agro environmental measures, because of everything they needed to have embedded in these strategic documents they did not have. We are only welcome, so we supported the Commission's initiative and in some ways we were more pleased with the month that we will have for longer. Data on the distribution of agricultural land under these temporary available models for cattle that are most endangered, in particular livestock farmers who do not have agricultural land and who would remain outside the support system will be maximum transparency according to clearly defined criteria. The unique register of domestic animals, the number of conditional throats, we put priorities. It's dairy cattle, a system of cows, calves, sheep, goats, horses, and it's only in the end a tov or a service to what you're saying. That way, and we'll control it both me and the system, but hopefully all of you here. And another little remark in a few discussions was either thinking, there were talks about the difference between concession fees and rent fees. We can't break up the contracts that were concluded a few years ago by both business entities and the ministry. We could have set up future leases in a fairer way, but once again I will point out through the original existing law that has not changed the way of financing, i.e. the income from the lease of agricultural land is divided into 65% of the local self-government unit, 10% of the regional administration, 25% of the state budget. The units of local self-government if they are of interest, and the interest is the strategic branch of the holding of agriculture can in part deny their income in favour of agricultural producers and thus compensate for the expensive or high lease for agricultural areas. We also gave the possibility through this law, i.e. that 100% of the income to units of local self-government is from land that are not part of the production technical units, and up to 1 hectares are for the whole of Croatia and are sold by clear criteria again. Thank you again very much. I think we have a good law, we have respected the maximum and discussion of this esteemed House but also the interest of Croatian agriculture. And I look forward to, in fact, that tomorrow, I hope not, but I am sure, to vote on this law and what colleagues from the agency will already have a very big job from the day after tomorrow because the deadlines are pressing and there is a lot to be achieved, competitions and demands. Because we're talking about almost 84, 85 thousand to 117 thousand acres of land missing from our cattlemen. Plus temporary availability for all those who have been in peaceful possession, whose system is back two or three years as far as this agency is working but unfortunately back 20 years did not allow legally through the tender to be able to have agricultural land in which it will produce. They also built long-term plantations, organized production on such surfaces, and had no safety. Through this proposal of the final law, amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, we will enable them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107286	Col. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107287	Thank you very much. Here I thank Mr. Minister for this extensively satisfied, joyful presentation and for saying that he is especially happy and happy today that here we finally have a good law. Mr. Minister, of course, you have a good law because it wasn't just you who wanted it, but all of us together who made every effort to correct everything that wasn't right in the previous law, and I said thank God, so you haven't applied it since 2013 because you'd created a disaster in the Republic of Croatia with renting and selling agricultural land. Thank God you didn't apply it. Thank God you saw that it should be changed, that it is not good, and thank God for the understanding of all of us that for the first time in one debate about such an important law in the Republic of Croatia we are all passing a good law that still has the shortcomings of Mr. Minister, it is not ideal yet, which needs to experience even more thorough changes of course in the time that is ahead of us. I am happy that this is the case, and I am also the president of the Committee on Agriculture who, whether you want to admit it or not, initiated 12 thematic sessions, did, together with all the other pressures to change certain things. But you better not say the pressures than point out the need to change the law in certain articles to the well-being of those I speak of. Small and large, look, it can't be on the burden of small, but on the well-being of great ones. That's all we're talking about. And it can't be in that score you've had before you changed it. Now you've changed it and congratulated it, but so far it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107288	Thank you very much. So you changed your mind? Are you going to vote for the law? ... The club changed its mind. You're voting for the law? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you say the consensus will be passed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Lucic, I did not say that I was satisfied and happy to have a good law because the largest number of laws coming from the Ministry of Agriculture are good laws and I have no problems. I said that I was satisfied with the debate that was in this House today where there was no politics, there was not so much demagogy and there was no spit on Minister Jakovina. I've never heard of myself on the right today that I'm a undertaker of Croatian agriculture. I should probably answer that, unfortunately, I'm a remand manager after 20 years. But there was no such debate and it made me happy because it was an argument quite good, we dealt with most of the real law and the problems of having agricultural land and there was my pleasure very great and I hope you actually said yourself next week the Law of Cooperation in which we worked so the Law on the Agronomic Chamber and everything that will come to this House that we would talk about in this way. At the very least, in accordance with the debate that was under the Agriculture Act, we supported and installed and we asked for an annual debate on agriculture in this House so that not every draft law would hear a very broad debate on a number of topics related to agriculture, then we will do so at special sessions, annual sessions of the report on agriculture. And we supported that. What comes well, what comes as good suggestions, we're always here to adopt them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107290	Thank you. And then we end up in that tone. Comrade Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107291	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you say you've done a lot for agriculture, but in this last attempt to amend the law with these 42 articles, something moved forward, yes. As my colleague Lucic says, there is a shift, but I cannot not read what is real, what this economic programme is carrying. It should therefore provide a description of the economy, indicators of the previous period, the purpose of use, land location, technological and technical characteristics of economic work, data on... a land processing organisation that is the subject of the lease, investment and employment, expected financial results of production, an indication of expected costs and revenues, a specific indication in the case of organic production, etc. And that's 60 points. Which of the little O.P.G.s can do that? Almost no one. Who's gonna be able to do that? Almost no one. In the follow-up, the economic programme will evaluate current business of the economy, agricultural production or aquaculture activity as the primary activity of the call participants, the expert preparation of the call participants, the ratio of the number of conditional throats and land to which the economy has, the availability and so on a series of all things that carry 60 points. Mr. Minister, I only say what the Association of Farmers, from the Association of Municipalities, Cities and Countys have made clear as an objection. You were present at that meeting, and you should have appreciated it. When you say about the achievements, then 377 objections to your availability plan were clearly an indication of how seriously this programme was taken. As far as I'm concerned... which you mentioned,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three years nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107292	That's enough, time's up. The answer to the line of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107293	Well, I just commended that there is no politics and demagogy here. We will deliver in writing how much has been invested in this irrigation system in the last three years and you do well, as you know that according to the previous programme of availability where we cannot escape from it in the last ten, eleven years in units of local self-government, municipalities and cities in your county of a potential 52,91 hectares in function 38,000 hectares. You also had your mayors and commanders of HDZ, you had executive power with coalition partners as a rule available on your county through agricultural land distribution programmes before 2012 until the last hectare you could put into office. To make comments about the economic programme sit down, take a pen that is simple mathematics, you will see that every cattleman was a large, small, OPG-ovec, craft or trade if he deals with dairy cattle and if he lacks land has 20 points. There is no record of 20 points company, OPG 0 points if they are engaged in the same activity and if they lack land. It's the same thing if it deals with seed production gets 14 or 15 points, but if it deals with warfare, it only gets 8. But what we want to do here and what we wanted to do with this law is that there are no grandparents, uncles, party, party, family, as it has been, unfortunately, not in all, in some units of local self-government, but based on business, serious business and the criteria of the OPGs. Most of them have no objection to this because through this economic programme we have now installed and beginners will be able to achieve quite a number of points. That extra fuse where we gave the opportunity is the domicileness of the young so far's possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107294	Miss twilight's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107295	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, here a few minutes ago, injured the Rules of Procedure and this article 238, for a simple reason, which states that you are misleading the public because you said that at the time of HDZ, the country was absolutely assigned to godfathers and uncles. Take it, you're always surprised, Minister, and now I'm gonna tell you when you're challenging me so hard, look at your ministry? The married godmothers of her friends, the follow-up and everything. Well, then, Mr. Minister, don't push it all the time, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107296	He didn't hurt his co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107297	... Money for my birthday, look at that, is that normal? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're surprised? Look at the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107298	Your colleagues are wrong because Article 238 was not injured. You didn't get a word out of your friend's bench. ... You've abused the Rules of Procedure, and you admit it and you admit it very well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Igor Czech replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107299	Thank you. The Honorable Minister that every law is good to the one for whom it was written. I know about the government's amendments because they were just telling me about it and our first-reading debate went in that direction, but you probably didn't understand me because I tried to explain and say that according to your system, the allocation of funds to rent agricultural land in the county is now 10%, and by old law, they were getting 25%. That's the fact I wanted to point out, that's why I said that under the old law the Osijek-Baranja County was getting at an annual level somewhere around 10 million kunas that it invested in projects to develop agriculture because the county as a unit of regional self-government is the bearer of regional development, and we all know that most local self-government units have neither the financial or professional capacity to be the bearers of such programs. So, she's been making an argument about me going that way to get my funding back to the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107300	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107301	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's good you said the ratios but you didn't say that we increased the units of local self-government from 50 to 65 because we think the units of local self-government as a deposited rent of agricultural land to which they were actually lords and who were supposed to rule backwards for 10 years even in a much better or faster rhythm. Most of this burden of management and investment and business should be done. At the very least, I see no reason why the county as a unit of regional or regional administration is not that corrective element which, in fact, through its administrative bodies, through administrative unique departments, administrative departments for agriculture and the economy, will be a support or assistance to local self-government units, municipalities that do not have what you said to human or professional capacity or the potential for quality management of agriculture-related programmes. The state budget remained in that section at 25% of the lease income it was. I think even though what you refer to in general is not the subject of a change in this, changes in these amendments to the law so that, in general, we should not specifically elaborate, but we believe that through the 2013 law, we have given the possibility of a unit of local self-government that through larger revenues, and now with additional sales revenues, we have given them the opportunity to gain greater interest, to put national wealth or a basic resource for agricultural production into operation as soon as possible and to help their farmers. The county is someone who needs to be a corrective factor and who needs to be helped. In the end, they could now elaborate on... loans in 2001-2003, where the joint funds of the Ministry of Agriculture with the funds of the county where nearly 110 million kuna remained from individual counties, unfortunately including yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107302	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. Thank you, Minister, with your associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107303	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 790. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by representatives of respected Petar Baranovic and Branko Hrg, as well as by the Club of Representatives of the DC, Novi Val and the People's Party of Reformists. I ask the representative of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Snow White Spain to manifest himself. Let's get this straight. Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107304	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107305	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107306	The regulation of the proposed is not accepted because all data and documents related to the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia are made available to the public. The Agricultural Land Agency is fully transparent and open-ended in respect of the Personal Data Protection Act at its disposal. The Agency shall publish on its website the requests of the parties to call for leases, applications for sale by direct contract, then notices of the award of the lease. The information system on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia whose establishment is prescribed by the Agricultural Land Act allows for the availability of information on the availability of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107307	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107308	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, since my representative experience speaks differently, and this is also documented in the response that Mr. Minister has made to a specific parliamentary question about state-owned land users in the area of Đakovština, I am responsible that my data is not available because of the confidentiality of personal data. There are archives of the Croatian Parliament, given the fact that today we are receiving a second statement from the ministry, and that the amendment was merely intended to make a clear commitment and prescribe that it does not leave this as a discretionary right but to make a clear commitment legally that such data must be available and ask for a vote in the Croatian Parliament and individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107309	Okay. We'll conduct in accordance with the Rules of Procedure's vote. You may sit down until the secretary of the plenary session conducts the procedure. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107310	Ante Babić – ZA; Vedran Babić – PROTIV; Branko Bačić – ZA; Jakša Balojevic; Martina Banić – ZA; Petar Baranovic – ZA; Milorad Batinić – PROTIV; Nevenka Bečić; Davor Bernardić – PROTIV; Goran Beus Richembergh – PROTIV; Vladimir Bilek – PROTIV; Dubravko Bilić – PROTIV; Boris Blažeković – ANTIV;
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107311	Please turn on your microphones because it's important to record.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107312	Valter Bolunčić – ZA; Josip Borić – ZA; Davor Bozinović; Krešimir Bubalo; Dinko Burić; Dragan Crnogoorac – ZA; Ljiljana Cvetović – OBVI; Nada Čavlović Smiljanec – PROTIV; Igor Češek – ZA; Tomislav Čuljak; Martina Dalić– ZA; Dražna Denon – OBVIV; Igor Drago Dragović – OBVIV; Ilija Filipović; Gvož Srečko Flego– PROVIV; Srđan Gjurković– PROĐav – ZA; Dražan Glav Glav – ZA; ZA; Mrko KRAČAVI – ZAV; IVO KRAČAVO KRAV; IVO GRAČIŠIČAVI; ZAVIVO ŽAVI; Mra Žar GRUV; ZAČIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIK. Đurđica Plančić v, Đuro Popijač, Vanja Posavac – v, Ivana Posavec Krivec – v, Alen Prelec – v, Milorad Pupovac - za, Ivan Račan – v, Furio Radin – v, Marija Rapo, Željko Reiner, Damir Rilje – v, Damir Rimac – v, Zdravko Ronko – v, Željko Sumrak - za, Ivan Šantek, Vladimir Šeks, Željko Šemper – v, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić – v, Ivan Šimunović, Vesna Škar – za, Marijan Škurk – v., Duk Šuržanjanjanjanj, Zamić v. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now only those who weren't. Jakša Baloević, Nevenka Bečić, Davor Bozinović, Krešimir Bubalo, Dinko Burić, Tomislav Čuljak, Martina Dalic, Ivan Drmić, Josip Djakić, Ilija Filipović, Ivan Grubišić, Perica Jelečević, Ante Jerolimov, Shandor Juhas, Branka Juričev Martinčev, Milan Jurković, Tomislav Karamarko, Željko Kerum, Tomislav Klarić, Ante Kulušić, Branko Kutija, Branko Lutija, Dujomir Marasić, Goran Marić, Natalija Martinčević, Frano Matušić, Davor Miličić, Darko Milinović, Davorin Mlakar, Nada Murganić, Đuro Popič, Marija Rapo, Željko Reiner, Josip Salapić, Ante Sanader, Ivan Šcantek, Vladimir Šiks, Ivan Šikšković, Ivan Šiković.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107313	Results. So the amendment didn't get the required majority, but I'll also say the result, 73 votes against and 37 votes for the amendment. Thank you very much. ... Yes, you can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107314	Well, about this. Since we have an electronic vote and we can print out who voted, that we don't waste any more of this time,... Change the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107315	And please, colleague, we all know that, it's not unclear to anyone but it exists in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107316	Well, I'm just suggesting we don't do parades like this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107317	Don't, we all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107318	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107319	Anything you suggest we take seriously. Let's keep working on the amendments. I'd like a Deputy Minister of Honor to Snow White Spain. We're going to the amendment of Honorable Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107320	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107321	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107322	No proposal is accepted to reduce the number of points for the economic programme from 60 points to 50 points, or to add a new point to which the OPGs would be combined in the producer organisation, cooperative or any other form of association. Because the proposer considers it justified to score an economic programme with 60 points and that the proposed additions to achieve a maximum score of 100 points from the possible 100 points through the valuation of the residence, i.e. the seat, holder of the OPG under 40 years old, of the previous owner if he is in peaceful possession and changes in the amount of the lease offered, significant improvement compared to the existing provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107323	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister. It's true what you said certain improvements were compared to earlier. But we have often pointed out that one of the biggest problems of the family's agricultural economies is disunity and disunity. And we know that because of this, often times we are not able to, or these OPGs are unable to withdraw funds from European funds because the level at which the Poles are as the best example of withdrawals have just been united. In this case, there was an opportunity that even in this law in some way encouraged the OPG to join together, whether it would be up to 10 points or it would be something else, I suggested like this. But anyway, I think we're missing a good opportunity to simply show people that the merger is worth it. For example, it is a producer organisation of dairy Drava Sava. So, a year ago, people joined together in a manufacturing organization, and already after a year of their joint action, they achieved some results. Instead of showing them that this is a good way, to give them an additional incentive, we disable them like this, we say, it doesn't matter, the economic programme is still the most important. It's not the most important thing and it's going to show up here, time is going to show that we've made a mistake, and that individuals won't be able to catch those points on the economic programme, but they're going to stay somewhere on the side again. So, if you look at the economic programme and the association of the OPG, it's kind of an economic programme. And that part can be treated that way. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107325	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Thank you very much. Please, let's go to the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists. Amendment No. First respected deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107326	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107327	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107328	It is not accepted as, under the provisions of this Article, agricultural land owned by the State may be planned for a second economic function only exceptionally, and as evidence of the possibility of implementing this provision shall be considered sufficient development programmes or plans in accordance with a specific regulation governing the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107329	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant of the amendment, who will? Dear Representative Petar Baranovic No, no, no, there's needs. [[No need.]] Don't, please. ... Okay, please vote on the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists which the government does not accept. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment No. 2nd Honored Deputy Minister, same clubs, same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107330	It's unacceptable. Namely, the provision of Article 27. The law refers to the calling for a public call, and paragraph 5 is prescribed as to what may be determined in the public call, i.e. that the type of agricultural production for which agricultural land is leased, given the specific potential, multi-annual plantations and traditional production in that area, and the content of the proposed amendment concerns the provisions of the contract on the lease of tenants in view of the content of the economic programme. In this respect, it is noted that agri-climate potentials are visible from the climate system, and traditional production in a given area is determined by the authorities in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107331	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107332	Thank you very much. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107333	Thank you very much. Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I set out most of the votes, 87 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 2 votes against, a law was passed in the text as proposed by the proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107334	We're going to go to: 4. Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2013 The report shall be submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency pursuant to Article 21. The Financial Agency Act. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. The opening annual report will explain to us the representative of the Board of the Financial Agency, Mrs Angelka Bunnet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107335	Honored MPs, respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2013 is before you. Let me, in short lines, draw out what has marked the year in business and financial terms. The basis for the implementation of activities in 2013 is the new Strategic Document Innovation Strategy of the Financial Agency for the period 2013 to 2017. After the successful implementation of the transition strategy for the previous four-year period which was intended to break the multi-annual trend of negative financial outcome and provide a basis for a stable positive business in the future, the new strategy has put emphasis on the continued use of the comparative advantage of FINA, which is reflected in the branched business network providing national coverage, the ability to implement business and integrate advanced IT solutions, the long-standing business relationship with the commercial business sector and the public sector, and the introduction of innovation into our business. That is why, at the end of 2013, we can say that by operating on the dynamic market and in the recession environment, the Financial Agency has managed to achieve most of the business and social objectives outlined, of course, in the business plan for 2013. With the exceptional efforts of all our employees, we left financial and business results that exceeded the result in 2012, so in 2013 we made revenue of 825.2 million kuna while total expenditures amounted to 748.8 million kuna. Compared to the 2012 performance, revenues and expenditures are up 6%. These results resulted in an increase in gross earnings of 76.4 million kuna in 2013 which is 11% higher than in 2012 and 43% more than in 2011. From the income structure, it is evident that a more significant trend in income decline in both our core business segments is seen, I mean the state and these commercial ones, mostly due to the growth of revenue from the Centre for Forced Payment, which recorded a 39% growth in revenue compared to the previous year, and the Centre of Electronic Business, which compared to the previous 2012 growth of 69%. The large focus of the Financial Agency on market requirements and user requirements had a direct impact on the movement of income by segments of business, and the share of revenues generated by the State budget users in 2013 decreased by 1% compared to 2012 so that it was 32%, the other revenues were achieved on the commercial market. The expenditure of the Financial Agency in 2013 was higher by 6% compared to 2012 which had the greatest impact on the increase in financial and extraordinary expenditure by 94% due to the reduction in portfolio value for the intended sale in accordance with IAS 39 and other operating costs by 41% due to the increase in the cost of determined expenditure from previous years is primarily thought of the necessary reservations for court disputes and in line with IAS 19. In the total expenditure structure in 2013 staff costs participated with 43%, material costs 27%, depreciation costs 11%, other operating costs 10% and financial extraordinary expenditures 9%. Among the business events that marked the business of the Financial Agency in 2013 I would point out my support for the implementation of the law on fiscalisation in cash where FINA confirmed its leading position in the affairs of the issue and management of large quantities of digital certificates, and was issued to legal persons and some physically over 90,000 certificates necessary for fiscalisation. The second significant event concerned the establishment of a central wage accounting system where all the jobs necessary for the introduction of institutions into the system were carried out during 2013 so that 473 institutions entered the system by the end of 2013, after which the work was of course continued. Among the projects that are estimated to have a far-reaching impact on our business, but also on national payment turnover, the Republic of Croatia would point out the launch of a SEPA pilot, thus ensuring the inclusion of national payment traffic in the single euro payment area. The project was launched by the adoption of the National Migration Plan on SEPA with all stakeholders of society to say it has been coordinated. By realising this project the Agency will implement a small payment system in our national clinical system of the Republic of Croatia. And this SEPA NKS for processing national SEPA credit transactions, we came up with this by 1 December 2015 and direct debits in kunas by 1 October 2015. Then EURO NKS for the calculation of national and cross-border SEPA credit transfers in euro in accordance with the relevant SEPA payment schemes that are valid throughout the European Union, we have notified ourselves by 1 October 2015. To establish this project, we will spend 10 million kunas. During 2013, the implementation of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit agreements was operationally carried out on the basis of a total of 5824 cases in which around 53 billion kunas of registered business entrepreneurs were shown and covered about 45 thousand workers in companies that entered the pre-departure settlement process. As regards human resources at the Financial Agency on 31 December 2013. FINA had a total of 3069 workers, which is basically one more compared to 2012. Some changes occurred in the qualification structure compared to 2012 so that the SSS dominates 60%, the share of high professional equipment increased by 1%, so the total is 24%. We have introduced and developed a catalogue of jobs and a new system of salaries and rewards that enables payment and position progress according to the results and acquired competences of employees and create preconditions for further increasing the efficiency of business. The average gross salary as you saw in the report was 7926 kuna, which is within the level we will say the average monthly gross salary per employee of the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia is lower by 0.16%. In 2013, we continued to educate our workers, for all the necessary competences and knowledge according to the internal rule that was adopted for this purpose and there was spent somewhere around 2 million kunas. The most money went into investment as it did every year. Total investments amounted to €67.6 million and increased by 39% compared to 2012. And they mostly focused on restoring and expanding capacity in IT segments, in line with the start-up consolidation of IT services in 2012. Given the macroeconomic environment in 2013 we were quite determined and limited, let's say the potential for growth of income from traditional sources of business are business with the population, payment and NKS. So in 2013 and continued in 2014 we put a special emphasis on cost management and the launch of new projects such as PONIP, new electronic services whose implementation will enable further empowerment of the financial agency's business position. In conclusion, the Financial Agency has been able to meet all its obligations and maintain liquidity through sound risk management and consistent application of the measures defined by our credit policy throughout the period. As FINA operates on the market for financial services, it is also extremely exposed to market risks seen in the pressure of competition and technological innovations that reduce the need to use our traditional services. That's why it's in response to all this innovation strategy and to say turn to new electronic services. This is why we are particularly focused on constantly monitoring market change and the latest technological achievements so that we can meet these challenges. It invests in the knowledge, competences of our employees, in information equipment. And in our work we have included the academic community so that we are also using to tell their competences and knowledge to improve their business solutions naturally and to adapt to the demands of users of our services that are increasingly sophisticated. That is why FINA adopted this new innovation strategy for the next period in response to all the challenges ahead. Innovation, knowledge, technological improvements are the imperative of the 21st century and we believe that in time we recognized their importance and used the adoption of the best European and world practices in business, of course not diminishing our tradition. Just by combining the tradition of reliability and modern technological solutions with a developed and competent network in which it is invested for over 50 years, we managed to achieve the highest extent in the Turbulent 2013 year, I will say the outlined business and financial objectives. That's it, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107336	Thank you very much. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107337	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mrs. Bunetta, FINA is certainly the leading Croatian company in the area of financial business. And you said, you were actually talking about the three strategic values that FINA needs to use, so you listed the national coverage of the business network, the ownership registers and the reputation of actually having a FINA, reliability after successful participation in state reform processes. However, Croatia is a member of the European Union for almost 2 years. I am surprised personally that one of the strategic values could not have been, for example, the development and preparation of European Union projects which, I am sure, FINA could do very well in terms of the number of branches in the Republic of Croatia, given the geographical position of the Republic of Croatia, given the 556 units of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, I think that FINA should have used it in its strategic values and strongly potentiated the actual activity. Then we shouldn't let people go. And I think you have such capacity that people could requalified and actually use your branches in the best possible way. It's one of my biggest grudges. In fact, what you were saying in your introduction, I think that FINA as a leading financial firm should have top managers, top controllers that this segment must use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107338	Can you answer that? The reply to the replica, Angel of Bunetta.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107339	I didn't say that. In the organisational structure of FINA, we organized and formed an organisational unit that deals with EU funds, educated and educated hundreds of people on our network who can and have acquired these competences and knowledge that we can do projects, currently applied to 6 projects. I'm sorry I didn't mention that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107340	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic-Kain. They're not present, they're losing the right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107341	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs. Bunetta, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2013, although it could almost be a report for 2014 as we all know how statistics are taught, but here is better ever than never. We've been waiting a little while for it to come to order. But right away I want to say that by looking at this report it can be a visual specimen I would say about everything that is owned by the state, about everything the Republic of Croatia manages and I want to say as soon as the results are seen, when you are looking at catching steps with time, with new technologies, with programs, with projects, then we can only congratulate and say you had a successful 2013 year. We expect 2014 to be so successful. Here I want to congratulate you, 3069 hardworking workers have been employed in FINA, and surely all of us who use the FINA services can be satisfied with all that FINA provides, but often the very inside we can use the various information that is important to manage, but also to make strategic decisions. I would like the resolution ministries much more, especially the Resort Ministry of Economy to use all those data and all those bases that we have in FINA just by activity because it would be much easier to come up with certain strategies. Well, here goes the Minister of Agriculture, I believe he used all that data you'd probably already have a strategy of agriculture. Looking at last year's income of 825 million, expenditure 748, a positive result of 76 million and looking at EBITA that is very important to me, 91 million kuna, it can be said that it was a success last year. But looking at your report, you've perfected yourself in forced payments, and you've also worked very hard on pre-bank deals, perfecting experience with performances. But I think that everything you wrote in the report would also benefit the rest of the finance ministry from what is important, we also protect the debtors because it is often visible that the believers are heavily protected. It's important, but for years, the believers, and above all I think business banks haven't spoken to the debtors, and that's why we have a vicious circle that has appeared in Croatia, and that's the unchargingness of the claim. But looking at the report, there's not much to complain about, but at this point I'm going to ask you a few questions that I'm expecting answers that I couldn't read in these reports. First question perhaps, how many owners i.e. The state owes FINA, so I would like a concrete answer if we can, with today's day, especially the amount of the state's commitments to the FINA. What is the cost of pre-price settlements in FINA, and how much profits, i.e. What is the loss in this business, and it's supposed to be pretty big, so here's the information I'd like you to share it with the parliamentary representatives. The government also boasts about the COP project, the central salary account, and my information has not paid for this job either. One part of the invoices is also paid, so I would also ask for information whether the state is properly serving its obligations because it is known that we have a payment law in Croatia, so there is no reason why the state does not pay state institutions or individual companies in which it is owned all in the given currencies as defined. Also, what looking at your report can be suspicious, and it's got a big profit and I'm afraid the state will take your share of it back. It would have been better if you had reinvested it, if you had shown it less, if you had invested more perhaps in new technologies because exactly what comes requires high I would have said not only the education your employees have, but I would have said new technologies. Therefore, I would like to hear not only in 2013 but also in 2014, you can already talk about it, but also by looking at previous periods, the investment plan and the implementation of the investment plan. I'd like you to comment on those figures. Because I think if you're showing such a profit, the investment plan needs to be met and if something's adopted, then it needs to be realized, and the reasons why it's not realised I'd be begging to hear from you, too. What we in the HDSSB often advocate, which is that all strategies, not to be for the period from 2013 to 2017, but to be for the period 2020. And just before, I'm glad you looked back on European projects. You have a lot of educated people, quality people in FINA who can also be a service for European funds, but they can also work on European funds. Therefore, we can congratulate on this report, wish 2014 to be even better. But please answer these questions especially when we talk about investments and your plans and what has been achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107342	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU club, colleague Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107343	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear Mrs. Bunetta. The debate on the Annual Business Report of the FINA for 2013 again provides an opportunity to analyse the neglected or underestimated contribution provided by this agency through its services. FINA is the leading Croatian company in the area of financial mediation, which, as heir to the Institute of Payments, is working successfully in the market environment even older social accounting services today. The administrative and information communications services provided by FINA do not provide any other company. The two main segments of FINA are the Financial Industry Services Sector and Corporate Clients and the Public Sector Services Sector. It is evident that in the Financial Industry Services Sector and Corporate Clients FINA continuously introduces new solutions and business processes, thus creating an increasingly efficient market approach. The growth in demand for FINA electronic services is evident, resulting in an increase in revenue. In the segment of public sector services, among other FINA performs tasks for the central insurance register, the central account of salaries, the implementation of pre-fashion agreements and others. Information and communication services primarily supported the business sectors of FINA but commendably turned to the market and tried to impose themselves as a partner of the real and public sector with their knowledge and experience. FINA has exceptional advantages in segments of business implementation and integration of advanced IT solutions, provision of information and electronic services. Based on these advantages, FINA should establish a far-reaching strategy to impose itself as a leading financial service not only in Croatia but throughout the region. On the basis of its quality, FIN should expand the product range and enter more actively as a participant, not only as a service provider on the financial market. Through the provision of administrative and information-communication services, FINA has unquestionably created a database related to an economy that no other institution in the Republic of Croatia has. And while the same, of course, cannot be used, an individual aggregate study of the same should provide excellent quality analyses and trends of the Croatian economy, and provide a quality basis for the development of advisory services aimed at small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is crucial for the development of the economy, which has neither the financial power nor the staff to deal independently with long-term development and the improvement of their own business. This transformation and a clean service provider into an active economic participant would ensure long-term business and development of FINA while at the same time making FIN one of the growth and development factors of the economy. It is commendable that FINA understands that the human potential is the most valuable capital the organisation has, and thus encourages the training of its workers. In order for FINA to develop new products and successfully implement them, it is extremely important to continue training of workers and to seek to continue the trend in the growth of the share of high professional equipment in the total number of workers at growing rates. Furthermore, a third of employees are over 50 years old and need to rapidly create a new frame and rejuvenate the structure of employees. FINA absolutely has the potential to become a pro-pulsive organisation that can grow and develop precisely in the segment of intellectual and advisory services. In order to be able to attract and maintain top-of-the-line housing, it is necessary to make the pay and reward system more flexible and to bring it into line with the financial industry and the corporate clients that FINA is serving. In view of the negative trends in the Croatian economy that will inevitably reflect on financial institutions, which are significant clients of FINA, should make a quality plan as part of market risk management in the event of a significant fall in income and a marked increase in over-income of payments. The innovation strategy for the period from 2013 to 17 provides a high-quality strategic and long-term response to market risks and challenges, but it does not provide an answer and solutions in the event of market disturbances that may be ahead of us. The Croatian Retirement Party Club will support the 2013 Annual FINA Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107344	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107345	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Mrs. Bunetta, colleagues and colleagues. The financial agency is one of the most important agencies that we have in the Republic of Croatia given the current moment at which the government announces the abolition of individual agencies and the merger of agencies as a measure of deficit reduction, FINA is actually a good foundation on which certain activities and activities currently dealing with other agencies on their own. The current government has just seen the agency as one suitable basis for providing similar staff and at the end of the mandate, if it takes into account the seriousness it announces in the media at least, it will have to face its own delusions and immature policies. relations with agencies and streamline the number of agencies and probably the number of employees in many agencies. Your accounts come at the expense of the government's unserious attitude towards reforms sooner or later. The Agency's reform will require a serious and studioed effort in the last year of its mandate if the current ones engage and if not, it will be a job for the next government. Personally, I don't think there's gonna be anything out of it, maybe some kind of demonstration of fire drill against some agencies that are thought to be the least of the damages, so the story stays with the next government and a comprehensive public administration reform. FINA’s business in 2013 took place in two basic business segments. One is business for the financial industry and corporate clients, while the other is actually a business for the public sector and for the business done on the basis of public authority. By comparing 2011 and 2013, FINA has made certain steps in the technological sense and should actually be recognised. And I, as the head of the municipality, use FINA's services, and I know how good it is to support all of us who are dislocated from the larger centers. FINA also provided quality support for the implementation of the Law on fiscalisation of cash traffic and provided bonds with the necessary solutions and smooth business. In 2013, FINA supported the establishment of the COP system, the central account of salaries and pre-banking agreements. Information technologies in the FINA system provide support to all business systems and sectors in FINA. Information technologies are service support addressed by IT services primarily to the business sectors of FINA and with the aim of FINA being imposed as the main partner of the real and public sector and using the academic community that you spoke about. You also talked about three strategic values, the advantages that FINA needs to use, about this national coverage, business network, registers of ownership, and the reputation of reliability after successful participation in state reform processes certainly especially in pension reform and payment reform. The restructuring of FINA and the rationalisation of business began in 2009 and data show that the number of employees fell in a year from 4372 to 2976 which was 1396 less, and then rose again by 100 employees, so that the number of employees in 2013 was 3069. The salaries are spent 324 million kuna, with Christmas and regression paid in 2011, and for the next two years only regression or Christmas Eve. Total wage costs are clearly reduced only in that part of Christmas and regression. In 2013, FINA made revenue of 825 million and 217 thousand kuna, while total expenditures totalled 748 million 831,858 kuna. Compared to last year's revenue and expenditures are up by 6%. These results resulted in a gross profit of 76,385 million kuna in 2013, which is actually 11% higher than last year, and by 43% more than gross earnings for 2011. It is precisely this profit that hides the reasons why state policy should consider the next move. Why? Through the financial industry services sector and corporate clients in 2011, we had 479 million kuna, and in 2013 430 million kuna, down by 49 million kuna. And in the public sector services sector, we had 263 million kuna in 2011, and in 2013, 320 million kuna, which is actually growth for 57 million kuna. Therefore, the biggest growth in revenues in services is recorded by the public sector, i.e. the Centre for Forced Payment, which in 2011 recorded or received 72 million kuna, and in 2013, 130 million kuna, which is a difference of 58 million kuna and 80% more. What's the reason for that? The continued rise in the number of blocked citizens, which rose from 211 thousand blocked in January 2012 to 317,000 citizens in February 2015. The amount of citizens' debt rose from 13 billion in 2012 to 31 billion already in 2015. So regardless of the daily accounts are blocked and unblocked, which means that we have a several-month write-off program, we're recording an increase in the number blocked by 106 grand, and the amount of debt for the 18 billion kunas in the dizzy. It's a definitive defeat of the kukuriku politics in all fields. While the citizens were actually blacked out by the FINAs, it dawned because the fees they charge for their jobs did their job and you actually earned a profit. The question arises why the policy led by FINA to make this kind of profit does not want to help citizens who barely live and survive with blocked accounts and reduces actually the fees it uses to talk about the great success of the FINA administration in managing the agency. Speaking of blocked accounts, it's a story that obviously requires the full attention of this and future government because the pace between 3500 and 4000 monthly newly-blocked and 350 trillion kunas of new blockades suggests that more and more of them have actually reached the edge of existence and there's no way out. There's something wrong with that system. Did we make it easy for some subjects, and here I mean lawyers that even on bizarre things, they actually make big money at small amounts of debt? From 1.1.2011 to 28.2.2915, 5 million 71 thousand 592 of which 32.12% refer to business entities and 67% refer to natural persons and citizens respectively. In the same period, 86.3 billion kunas were made on the basis of business entities and 23 billion kunas on the basis of citizens. With the basis of the achievement of the pre-banking procedures, the amount of unexecuted payment grounds reported in February 2015 was reduced by 700 million kuna and the number of debtors by 75. When we sum up paid bases in four years and increase the unpaid basics of 18 billion kuna citizens in that circle, there is a large 41 billion kuna of citizens' debts or almost 10 billion of citizens' new debts according to all the basics. In just six months from 30.6.2014 to 31.1.2015, citizens' debt increased by 3.1 billion kuna. According to the most decommissioning banks, 2.1 billion kuna, insurance 200 million kunas over or out of 908 million kunas, teleopers 30 million kunas and other companies 1.3 billion kuna more. We don't really know who belongs here, so I'd like to hear your answer. So these other companies, these 1.3 billion kuna? To lawyers and judges, witches are owed 30 million more or a total of 358 million kuna. The central state managed to charge 700 million kuna in 6 months in a month, or 180 million out of the total debt of 3.18 billion kuna in the observed period, in fact, as far as the debt reduction was concerned. We don't know what that was about, we don't see it in the report. The local self-government is owed 234 million kunas and to the municipal societies 208 million kuna. The population structure of 31.1.2015 means up to 2 thousand kuna, the number of citizens is 47 459, from 2 to 10 thousand kuna 85 443 citizens and a total of 132 902 citizens. It is this figure of 47,459 citizens who owe up to 2 thousand kunas who warn that these citizens simply have so low incomes or have no income that they cannot leave the blockade for a long time and should warn the FINA Government. It is precisely the state that should react and find ways to allow them to function properly until they are able to settle the debt. Why wouldn't they be given a routing debt without being blocked by an account? In fact, there is no benefit for any citizen or state and the total amount of debt is less than the amount received by individual consultants for the failed privatisation of public enterprises that I do not want to talk about now. The debt write-down model is a shift but apparently the criteria are still too demanding and there are no expected effects as you probably feel in FINA. It also concerns the teleoperate debt, which proves that operators themselves are easily engaged in contractual obligations towards users by not checking the possibility that the same contractual relationship can be consummated in view of the possibility of citizens, and this will eventually make up for the state. The figures are clear and the state, as well as the FINA, should react to each one in its jurisdiction that the problem of the blocked starts to be solved effectively. The expenditure side of the FINA expenditure structure sees an increase in expenditure on the item of other operating costs involving the costs of the official route, employee expenditure, representation costs, property premiums, insurance of staff reserved for the costs and other operating costs. In 2011, it was $47 million, in 2012. 55 million kuna in 2013 78 million kuna. The rise in these costs for which I have no analysis, means there is no analysis and the increase is almost 30 million kuna shows that even this agency cannot be kidnapped called red tape that implies spending and not worry too much about why it is and can be. We'd like to actually hear what this cost and shift is about, not a small one, and it's not inescapable of 30 million kuna. And finally get as far away with FINA as possible? The Government of the Republic of Croatia has, through its own document, developed a project plan for the implementation of long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures to integrate the accompanying services that represent the unification of certain business processes that are individually carried out by the authorities of state and public administrations, which are not the main activities through the services of other companies to which this is the basic activity. In particular, business/additional processes related to accounting services and att support shall be considered in such a way as to provide for the definition of the business integration model, the business and the scope of the FINA and the APIS, the strengthening of financial and management capacities, the establishment of the service market, and the consideration and reference of the service price and the legal transition and the relationship to employees. The deadline for this measure was 3 months 2014 as you know and the end of 2016. Nothing happened after Minister Linic left. The minister was removed and the measure remained obvious until its expiry date. Instead of continuing to carry out this government and obviously giving up on it because the SDP's men's entanglement programme just in the description experienced its peak, 67 workers were fired for severances, and then hired dozens of new SDP cards. What's the best way of speaking is a statement by the head of the APIS administration that says everyone's wireing the SDP business I have a few calls a month. The APIS is rightly known in the media as the SDP's company's ear. In view of announcements of the merger of agencies, with the condition that ownership relations are resolved, it may be time for the government to return to its promises and achieve the measure because, sooner or later, they will have to implement the new government. That would be a question of common sense. At this report of FINA for 2013 we will be restrained at the HDZ Club because it is obvious that there is room to help citizens, but unfortunately through the FINA and through the Government of the Republic of Croatia we are not benefiting, which we regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107346	Thank you too, colleague. You have one replica of the respected representative, Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107347	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, that your debate has been very good and you have touched some of the questions that are related to FINA especially this large number of blocked and how it can be helped. The largest number of blocked people is related to the blockade of state-owned companies in Zagreb Holding, which means electricity, water and something and teleopers. And what's most strange is those teleopers are deliberately doing what you warned them about, they're deliberately giving it away because they're from a simple little man so that we can all be called, and if we're not big firms, they'll be easy to charge. He'll sit on your salary, come to the bank and tell you you're blocked. Now I'm curious, and here's the principal, which is why the bank can't know what the amount that's blocked or who blocked you, but it's got to go to the FINA, then FINA just unblocks it. I don't even know what that relationship is. And it's not clear to me that debts can come back four and five years. What kind of companies, when they work on the annual balance sheet, do not see their debtors and warn their debtors that they should pay, that they have a debt and, as soon as possible, to block it. And then people wouldn't be in these situations. The fact that they've lost their jobs is that they've taken out loans that I can't repay anymore, but for all the other teleopers and all the things that apply to the utility accounts, I just think I'm the state and that someone with the bill back two years would pay for that utility company that it sent because it means they don't account for in their annual balance sheet at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107348	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed president of the management of Angel Bunetta. I'm sorry, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107349	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade twilight might be good through what you've replicated once again two very important things about FINA. FINA is the leading Croatian company in the area of financial operations is state-owned, it has public authority and under the Law of Business it can do so, it is not disputed. The dispute is that you said the number of citizens who owe them nearly 48,000 kuna, means that they are at an existential minimum and it is a pity that FINA does not propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these accounts be unblocked but that a reasonable time limit be given to these citizens if it is possible to repay this debt because this debt will not be settled and the damage will be suffered both by citizens but in this case both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those 132 thousand citizens who owe up to 10 thousand kuna. I deliberately compared this because it sounds good in terms of the number or funds paid to certain consulting houses for certain projects in the Republic of Croatia related to HPV, for Clean Star for the monetization of highways, this debt of citizens is far, far smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107350	Thank you too, colleague. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107351	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed presidents of the FINA Board, colleagues and colleagues. If he were here right now, he'd say that this item is the agenda pass and he'd be right. So at these moments, as my colleague Bubalo said, we could really discuss FINA's 2014 report, but here's the point right now, there are certain priorities and we're going to discuss here now about the FINA's 2013 report. I would therefore like to stress at the beginning of the presentation that in 2013 FINA, despite the fact that it must deal with growing competition in the financial services market, has achieved most of its business objectives, and as far as the financial results are concerned, it is even better than in 2012, so the profit achieved has reached the highest level in the last three years observed. In 2012 the period of implementation of the FINA's five-year transition strategy was completed, so one important period in which the FINA was restructured, a programme was implemented for the care of extra employees, business with cash in a special company of the daughter of FINA Gotovina services d.o.o. and a financial consolidation has been carried out. The result of this transition strategy is to reverse the multi-annual trend of negative business in positive business and that is what was essential to us from the SDP club. In fact, you remember that in previous years we gave a negative opinion on the business of the Financial Agency, and back a few years after the financial business consolidated our position on the business of FINA is positive. The successful completion of the transition strategy continues with a five-year innovation strategy aimed at ensuring FINA long-term sustainability using available strategic resources. And these are, as we know, a branched business network that provides national coverage, so no other agency has such coverage on the territory of all Croatia. These are further data registers, a very valuable resource. Then a specific know-how based on the ability of business implementation and integration of advanced IT solutions and good reputation and trust acquired from one side by successful participation in the processes of important state reforms and on the other hand by long-term business relations with banks and other commercial partners. Croatia's entry into the European Union is a new challenge but also an additional positive moment for FINA as it opens up the possibility of regional performance, partnership with partners and adopting the best European practice in its defence of business. In that sense, as directed by the head of the FINA administration, it is actively involved in several projects. So, for example, here I am stressing the SEPA pilot who should, through the national clearing system managed by FINA, provide preconditions for future smooth and efficient integration of national payment traffic into the single euro area. The FINA, through the NKS, should carry out a service for business banks to account for national and cross-border transactions in euro. In the case of foreign affairs, FINA continues to be a reliable partner to the state in a number of extremely important projects, of which it is certainly necessary to mention a fiscalisation project whose holder is the tax administration. But FINA is engaged in the business of registering the fiscalization bond and in the issue of application certificates for fiscalization and, as we have heard, about 90,000 certificates have been issued. Furthermore, there is a project to establish a register of employees in the public sector and introduce institutions into a system of centralised wage accounting, so-called "the public sector". COP. There have been some difficulties in setting it up to its functioning, but today we also have accurate data on the number of public service employees and the public sector in general and on their incomes. Which, of course, was not the case until the moment the COP was working. We further have a project to establish a registries register with a view to increasing security in the implementation of the charge over money and reducing the possibility of counterfeiting the debtors. A complete adjustment of the REGOS system for the introduction of a single record form and collection of all receipts has also been made, that of our famous JOPPD. Further national e-Citizens and e-IDs projects have been launched. FINA is a partner to the state in implementing the Financial Business and Pre-departure Act, so one extremely important and I would say a very demanding job for FINA, up to 31. 12. In 2013, a total of 5824 items with a total of 53 billion kunas were received in the FINA, with 83% of all cases received and resolved while 17% of cases were transferred in the following year 2014. Of the 3409 cases solved, 594 were completed by making deals before the competent commercial courts while, unfortunately, for the larger number of cases, a proposal was submitted for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings for the 2815 cases. Let's update this report a little bit for 2013, so let's refresh it a little bit with the 2015 data, so over the month FINA got as we know a new, very important task regarding the write-off of citizens' debts, FINA at the request of debtors issuing debt reviews. Of course, the permanent activity of FINA is monitoring trends in the market for payment services to identify precisely those services that have the highest market perspective such as the real-time payment service. Several sentences on the achieved financial result of FINA in 2013 as we have repeatedly heard from previous exhibitors, total revenues have been achieved at 825 million kuna, expenditures of 749 million kuna or the difference in gross earnings of 76 million kuna and 11% is greater than gross profits achieved in 2012. And what has affected such a good result of financial business? Therefore, the most affected revenues from forced collection and revenues from the issue of a fiscalisation certificate. One word of income from projects where the state introduced financial discipline and in which FINA was a reliable partner to the state. The revenues from payment traffic unfortunately continue to fall. In the last 3 years, 64 million kunas have been reduced mostly due to the continued outflow of customers into banks, so it is an unconstitutional process but also because of the global trend in replacing the counter payment by electronic payment. Fortunately, the fall in income from payment traffic is successfully compensated for revenues from electronic services, digitalisation services and documentation archiving services. FINA is, we all agree, the Croatian leader in the field of electronic services and this area is obviously the strongest FINA perspective. So we can say that FINA has its safe market niche. And finally a few words about the assets of FINA and the management system of that property. I think it's one important segment of FINA's business. According to FINA, the balance sheet can read that FINA has a high value of real estate. This is precisely what results from the fact that FINA branches, businesses, counters cover the entire area of Croatia. So really the services of FINA are available in every corner of our beautiful. So FINA's value of real estate is over half a billion kuna or to be quite precise 522 million kuna. It is business spaces in very attractive locations that are not used in a significant part. In other words, FINA has extra squares of a very valuable business space that we can literally say dead capital. Moreover, it is a cost because maintenance of business space certainly causes certain investments, i.e. it causes certain costs. Part of the space is rented. We know that the largest tenant is the Agricultural Payment Agency, and the most important reason why business spaces are not rented to a greater extent than this so far is the security of money. I think there must be a solution to bringing in unused spaces to function, to become a source of profit, not a source of cost. The current situation is unacceptable, especially if we know that at the same time a series of state institutions are paying high rent costs for business premises. So on the one hand, we have extra space, and on the other hand, the state pays huge rent costs. Speaking of valuable properties of FINA, I must say that with the business premises of FINA there are also facilities for working resorts which have been out of service for several years because FINA is not registered for the purpose of carrying out such activities, i.e. catering or accommodation services, and is therefore prohibited from continuing its activities in early 2012. In this regard, I actually have a few quite concrete questions, so are these resorts even recorded in the balance sheet of FINA and what is their value? And actually the most important question, which is the fate of those resorts. So these are extremely valuable resources, and we can say that right now given their status, they're actually dead capital. Therefore, FINA should make one comprehensive analysis of all available properties and propose appropriate models of their capitalisation and this as soon as possible. The SDP club supports the 2013 FINA report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107352	Thank you very much, with your assessment of the importance and currentity of the topic in discretion with your debate. We don't have any more logs. Does a representative, the president of the board, want a closing word? Yeah. Here you go. ... Here, structure whatever you want, just so it's in the dark. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107353	I'll try to cover everything you asked me. Generally, as far as these issues are concerned, the state's relationship as the owner of the FINA and the assignment of business, let's put it that way. The business relationship between the State as the owner of the business process and the FINA is based on specific individual contracts between FINA and for example the Ministry of Finance for the Treasury, for pre-fashion settlements, with the Ministry of Justice, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the E-Citizen. Therefore, through individual authorities, the owner of the State Administration has entrusted the FINAs with certain business processes, which he considers to be able to carry them out because he has the resources, qualified people and the rest. For every one of our jobs, we re-calculate, so clearly you can see the cost of costing. Nobody works below cost, which makes sense. I'll just say it in business as we say it, we can talk about some kind of profit. This profit can be as much, it should be so much that in principle after x years, it depends on which business process it is, if the technique is invested, you can replace a piece of equipment, meaning depreciation. And that's what business is about. Let's say so. When we negotiate with banks, any company we report to public tender, of course where we fight, we fight over that fiasco. If you're a good judge, you'll pass the contest, if you haven't fallen. This is where the government, or every resolution ministry that talks to us and negotiates business, says what to do, which business process. We do, we say what it would be, so I say it in general for both pre-prices and executions and for the central account of salaries and for the treasury and everything else we do. These services concern all of our stakeholders in society, these unfortunate performances of ours, so citizens and entrepreneurs are all involved, but I must point out, and I personally have a serious problem with that. Why, because we're not the ones doing the work, doing someone, we're the provider, we're the one doing it, and we got that job according to the law, according to the rulebook. The price list is clear, you know, so we didn't give ourselves anything. No, I don't. It says in the law, says in the rule book, price list public, everything stands, everything writes. So we're not the ones who set the price for ourselves, the price is what it is, and they're not as expensive as in the end, and the good for someone more than 100 kunas is a lot in today's difficult times, but the price list is exactly broken down what is what is and what is paid for. Here were the most questions, and these were also sent to the e-mail by some parliamentary representatives, fees for verifying the possibility of fulfilling the basis for payment, and for processing requests with certain treatment of payment grounds. Our price in the price list is 65 kuna. A lot, a little, I don't know what to tell you. I see on the business side as a citizen that I'm on that opportunity, I if I don't have much is all. We look at it every day, there are all kinds of situations where people find themselves and as a man, it's terribly difficult for you. Whatever we can do human, professional, whatever. But the law is the law, the rules are the rules. We didn't prescribe them ourselves, we stick to them. You asked me how much we made under quotes if I could say so in the pre-profit settlement procedure in 2013. Cca brought this something about 13 and a half million kuna revenue from which by the end of 2013 it was charged somewhere around cca don't take my word for it, I didn't manage to catch a colleague with eight and a half million kuna. So there's something else that's not charged. Okay. You asked me what it was about to get. Winning the FINA is divided according to the statutes. The statute says 50% get goes to the owner, and 50% stays for as reinvestment, i.e. investment in renewal, renewal I will tell all our capacities we need. The investment plan and the realization is a big, big problem. According to one of my colleagues in the Croats, she says a lot of crocodiles and a little bar. There are few of them at all like Finna, APIS, to spread public tenders, and then the fighting begins figuratively. It often happens that the competition will collapse just to keep the one going for a few months, because by the time the procedure goes through, the commission will answer that. It goes on sometimes. We're not the only ones who end up on the committee. And in principle, we're very unhappy that our investment plan can't be realized because let's say a problem that isn't just ours, but it's from all of us who are bonds of public procurement, it's worse time, you want to get it over with, because you're not getting something you don't need. But that's right. And that's the realisation. You told me the COP wasn't paid in full. Right, he wasn't paid in full. It's paid cca here's the same thing I have to say cca, 13 and a half million kuna. I think there's about 20 left over, which, 21, 2 million kuna. However, for all these FINA commitments made to the FINA by the state, I will say this. FINA's been having a lot of problems, but these problems haven't come back since yesterday. I have to go back to history. This problem is the hardest one to start in 2010, 2011 and then over here. We have concluded a closure agreement with the Ministry of Finance and I will make a commitment in 2010, amounting to 162 million kuna. Right now, we are standing before the signing of this second agreement, and FINA has proposed a modality of how, let's say so, to close the remaining obligations of the agreement. We appreciate the situation, we appreciate all the stakeholders, we appreciate the owner, but we appreciate ourselves. That's what I'd say. As far as I'm concerned, you asked me, sir, that's what I said, you probably missed the opening statement. The fact is that the remaining operating costs are higher than in 2012 and this is significant due to the reservation of court disputes of 20,194 million, for MRSU 19 pension benefits, jubilee awards and all 18 million. Valuable compliance of claims from customers 4.9 million. That's where it's in there. I've been taxing on every buyer, on every court dispute, which is since it dates. So we'll go back to history, but it was a alignment with international accounting standards. All the necessary reservations we made and this year I still have something left, and that is a valuable harmonisation of all our properties, because the last one was implemented in 2008 and our books are absolutely ok. And I'm behind it. As for the official routes you asked me, we're very stingy. Money is not spent for any purpose, but what is extremely necessary for humans. There were an awful lot of education in the field, there was plenty of let's say official ways about education and acquiring the necessary knowledge and certifications of our informers and I believe that no kuna was wasted in vain or that God had given us something fixed. Never, that's out of the question, and that's what you can see at the cost of how we managed to tell the money. The plot of land has been increased. Exactly, it was increased because here we have now achieved, not now but in 2013 an agreement with the Ministry of Finance and property has been shared since the time of the social accounting service. So something fell on us, and we had to give something. Let's say we booked our building in Albrecht, and we got a building and land in Osijek I mean in Jager if I remember correctly, in Rijeka some Adriatic square and something else. So that's what we've done, and we've aligned it in accordance with that agreement, and we've closed the past. Finally resolved SDK, in terms of land, real estate and everything else. Real estate, you told me resorts. Yeah, we have resorts. It's true that in 2012, we got that ban that we couldn't deal with that activity and we pulled out of it. We've put in tenders four times, and we've invited travel agencies to take our real estate, so let them make some money and give us something. It failed at all 11 locations, only 1 object we were able to tell rent to a tourist agency. That's what we rented to say. I'll say only those detached facilities, not those where we have, for example, Losinj, a beautiful building in the center of Losinj, there's a business room down there, and your apartment is up there. How do you let some tourists into the apartment through the office? And that's all security protection very, very high. So it wasn't an object. The interest is small and here's what we just did for those 10 locations again the other day so we can find someone to get rid of it, right? Of the free more business to say space we are our biggest tenant is the paying agency in agriculture, 4800 square meters we rented it at the price, depending on the locations let's say, which is no less than that estimate of the IRS. Why? Because if we were to rent at a lower price we would have to pay the income tax law, it's a receipt in nature, pay taxes and contribute. So it's totally invaluable. And we're always on that one, we'll say lower limit. That the IRS can't object because we're in accordance with the rules and how they're determined, and on the other hand we don't pay any extra taxes. We currently have an additional 8300 square meters of free space to rent. So we've achieved something, not too much, but we've achieved it. Generally this year, it's time to get rid of these properties because all the pre-conditions have now taken place, we've signed up to whom at the state level, the SDK, the ZAP, the past, and now we're going to go to the real estate assessment, harmonising values to IRS 36 which we have to do in books. It must be a course profession to do. And after that, we are already working with this to prepare for our supervisory board a decision or one analysis based on which they will be able to decide what to do with it. Our proposal, for example, is to sell apartments, those that are clean owners, and also these resorts. There's another building that's so very speculative because the monument of the zeroth category is terribly expensive. There is interest in some hotels, but according to the FINA Act and our statutes we propose to the supervisory, supervisory then head towards the government because we must not alienate any real estate or acquire without the Government of the Republic of Croatia as our owner. Here, I hope I've been able to answer everything. It was too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107354	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two replicas. The first replica is the respected representative of Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107355	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidents of the Board, you are in the answers you have just given us one question I would say to myself if the price of the fee is too high to pay the basis for the payment of 65 kuna. So that's one sensitive question whenever it comes to both your bank and postal fees, etc. Especially in today's times when people have a hard time living like this. However, I would like to remind myself precisely why I am familiar with some software solutions because I have worked in FINA in my time, let's say when it comes to the collection of the basis for payment, that payment in many cases in many cases works not on a single basis but on multiple occasions. So, depending on what the inflow of funds is at the expense of the debtor. You have to twist the same program 10 times in order to charge one debt amount, so one payment base. Or perhaps even more illustrating an example is, for example, the issue of credit rating information. Anyone who asks you for that information will say it's 250 or 300 kuna I don't know how much it's worth now. However, everyone forgets how much past work has actually been invested to get to the point where you once press one button to actually print that credit rating information. Therefore, it is necessary to collect in certain forms tens of thousands of annual financial reports, in particular entrepreneurs, process them, solve all errors, add them up, put them in tables and then create that credit form. So there's one huge past work that's in the background to say it or actually justifies the price it is. So I'm saying that the prices aren't high.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107356	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107357	Thank you very much. Like this, you probably said you were satisfied with the report, but I don't think you should have been satisfied with the report, and neither am I, because let's say the payment segment has one downward path, a downward path along with all those global trends that we can talk about, there's also a downward path to adapting to this European regulation. We agree here, because now we have a situation that, with FINA, we also have certain retail networks of Tisak, Petrol, I don't know this, which are also doing payment traffic. No one is against it but we are lagging behind because we left that 2003 law on minimum measures to protect the business with cash, and we should have changed it in 2010 when we made this adjustment. Now, I'm not going to talk about loyal or unfair competition, that's your problem, but I'm going to talk about protecting employees or more specifically women's labour who are working on kiosks and who is absolutely unprotected because they don't have to have anti-invasive, non-obstructive, video surveillance or anything, and these women are totally unprotected and in danger. I went to the press today, and I could see that you can raise your money from abroad today, and that's what it says, and that's how it's done, and because of that danger, I have to say that the Government of Zoran Milanovic was extremely well-detectable of this problem and that we went through the Ministry of the Interior, we did the job, it was created, it was a proposal for the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, on the 3rd 10th, we had it in the Parliament, there were some small improvements, and I urge that this law be put into the procedure, eventually to bring it in and to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107358	Thank you. Thank you very much. With this replica, we've completed our discussion. We'll vote on the annual report when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the chairman of the Financial Agency's board of directors. The vote will be tomorrow. You don't have to come. Thank you very much. Annual report of the Financial Agency for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2013 is hereby adopted. A year.". Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion was made by most votes, 87 for, 17 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107361	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs means you have an annual report on HANFA for 2013. You could see the detailed data in the report itself. I will now briefly present the most important indicators related to the market for financial services and basic information related to the activities of HANFA itself. What is important to say is that in 2013, there were no phenomena or instabilitys that could endanger the entire system and the most important event that we can highlight is full-fledged membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Why is this extremely important in the financial services market? Because the free provision of services and business accommodation in and from EU Member States has started to apply. With full EU membership, HANFA has also become a member of European supervisory institutions, namely ESMA and EIOPA, HANFA also participates in the work of the ESRB and HANFA assumes the obligation to participate in the work of these institutions. Now I'm going to go through every part of the financial market that we're watching. As regards investment services and activities, nine investment companies, 16 credit institutions, 6 investment fund management companies were involved. They achieved domestic capital market turnover of 5.1 billion kuna, an increase of 8% compared to the previous year, and foreign markets of 2.8 billion kuna or a rise of 33% compared to the previous year. We can see from year to year that Croatian citizens and other investment companies are increasing share of their transactions in foreign capital markets. The total revenues made by these companies in 2013 amounted to 221 million kuna, an increase of 18% compared to the previous year. As for the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Index Krobeks increased by 3.1% in 2013 and total turnover to all financial instruments on the stock market was 3.8 billion kuna. In Croatia, 86 public offering funds with 13 billion kuna assets were registered, a slight increase compared to 2012, and 26 alternative funds were registered. In the area of funds, it is important to note that two new laws have entered into force, the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act, which have been adopted as a result of the necessary compliance with relevant European regulations and in part to improve existing legal solutions. The number of compulsory pension funds remained unchanged, net assets remained unchanged at the end of 2013 at the end of 2013 at $58.2 billion, i.e. an increase of 7 billion kuna or 13.9%. Of these 7 billion kunas, 5 billion kunas is an increase resulting from the net payment of members into funds, and the rest is the result of the contributions made. These offerings ranged from 4.18 to 5.14%. There were 1.7 million members in the funds. 6 open voluntary pension funds and 17 closed voluntary pension funds also operated in 2013. There were around 200 thousand people in open funds, which is 13.5 thousand new members compared to 2012. They paid less than 300 million kunas in funds and the assets of the funds reached 2.2 billion kuna. The closed funds had something under half a billion kuna of property, and they counted 22,000 members. 2013 has worked intensively on the laws governing the operations of pension funds, the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies has been adopted. These laws entered into force in 2014. As for insurance in Croatia, there were 26 licensed insurance companies, one reinsurance company. They made a gross premium of 9 billion kuna, which is a half-percent increase compared to 2012. The insurance also changed laws, the Insurance Act, the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, and the year marked very intensive preparations for the implementation of the complex Solvency 2 Directive. As far as leasing companies are concerned, their assets decreased by 11% compared to 2012 amounted to 19.7 billion kuna. For five years in a row, the Leasing activity has recorded a reduction in the value of active contracts and the level of activity. A new law has also been passed in the field of leasing, it came into force at the end of 2013. As regards HANFA itself, apart from continuing to carry out indirect surveillance in 2013, we launched 54 direct controls, we participated in the making of 10 new laws, five amendments and additions of existing laws, and mainly as a result we adopted 55 new regulations, 26 amendments and additions to the rules. These very large, major amendments to the legislative framework are, as you know in the vast majority of cases, the consequences of the many regulations coming from the EU and motivated by the 2008 financial crisis. 71 meetings of the Governing Council, 50 regular, 21 extraordinary sessions were held in 2013. A total of 1,300 decisions were made on them. As regards consumer representations, 2013 was adopted. 201 plays. They are promptly resolved, sometimes directly, and sometimes taken into account during monitoring activities. You could see more about the performances in the annual report. As in previous years, the largest number of performances relate to the insurance market and to the leasing market. 2013 continued with activities related to improving business processes, more efficient business, including the creation of a new website, some information and communication processes that have led to more efficient operational activities have been further improved. Membership in ESMA and EIOPA, as I mentioned at the outset, involves a lot of work. I would say that these EU membership activities and those institutions today take 20 to 30% of the total working time in HANFA. This implies the right to vote, direct participation in the work and decision-making processes, daily work on making views, opinions, many analytical activities, the preparation of various data sent to ESMA and EIOPA. Here since it is already mid-April 2015 I will take the opportunity to inform you in a few words about 2014. This Decision shall CROBEX fell 2.72% with a very small increase in trading on the stock market. In the case of investment companies and investment funds, the situation is very similar to that of 2013. The peace funds have reached 66.28 billion kuna assets, with 8.4 billion kuna increases of 4.5 billion from payments and 3.5 billion from transfers. Voluntary pension funds had a 20% increase in assets. And what is likely to mark 2014 on the financial market is a major drop in insurance premiums in the area of liability insurance for the use of motor vehicles, which resulted in a drop in the total premium in the insurance sector by 5.69%, and in this specific type of insurance therefore liability for the use of motor vehicles as much as 18.26%. Leasing continued with negative results. We haven't received the final reports yet because we're getting the end of April 2014, but there will probably be a re-examination that results from pre-crisis placements. Factoring companies recorded a 32% increase in profits, and the volume of the transaction was 18.8 billion kuna. What is important in the 2013 report we did not mention because we had just become a member of the EU, in 2014 a very large number of notifications by foreign companies to perform business directly in Croatia were recorded. So 204 foreign investment companies have been notified, 27 funds, and even 356 insurance companies from other EU members. I thank you for your attention, and I am at your disposal for your enquiries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107362	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Representatives Grubisic and Cain. They're not in the hall. They're losing the right to discuss this subject. Next is the respected Domagoj Ivan Milosevic on behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Bubal, for replacing us. I will comment on this report from three different positions. I won't be long and I'll try to point out a few facts. So, first of all from the position of those who oversee you, which is us in the Croatian Parliament, secondly, from the position of those you oversee and number three, from the position of those for whom they exist or better said to do business with those with whom HANFA controls. So first, under number 1 as I said from the position of those of us watching you, which is the Croatian Parliament, this is definitely none of your business, but in 2015 we talk about the 2013 report given the circumstances in which What? [[The President's intrusion: Then it's over.]] How? [[The President's intrusion: Then it's over.]] Yeah, it's not over. [[President: So when there's no point in talking anymore, so I think it's over.]] There's more. [[/The President's incursion: And there's more? All right, all right.]] Yeah, but if Not Discrepancy [[The President's incursion: It is discretion in the Assembly.]] So there's no point in having a lot of things going down in Croatia, so the president of the Croatian Parliament, and that's how the economy collapses, I didn't mean to say it, but from that position in 2015, talk about many of those who oversee HANFA, these figures are not really relevant anymore. [[/The President's incursion: No. Okay.]] And that's the problem. ... I'm not a disaster. I know what's going on in the real world, unfortunately. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's number one. So number one, and then the next. There are stories that will connect HANFA with some other agencies, I sincerely hope to give it up. So as personal as I am the HDZ for various public sector reforms, I think it would be completely wrong given the importance of the work that HANFA is doing to try or intend to join at all with any other agency in the Republic of Croatia. I also sincerely hope that in its work, HANFA has complete independence from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the State itself, given the importance that HANFA has. And finally, I assume that in this cooperation with European bodies and with, in fact, with the European supervisory authorities with which you have been working with the past, almost two years not only have you learnt and progressed but also that there are still significant differences between them in the West or in the north of us who for decades have many products, services and all those you oversee far more developed than we do. Well then, you should be quite careful in the non-reservative accept absolutely everything in view of the differences in market developments and those that participate in that market and you oversee them. Here's the first one from the position of those who oversee you. The second from the position of those you oversee, I've given myself a little effort so I've talked to a lot of people I've known for many years at a personal level and I have to commend, so I have to admit from all sides and that was at least 6.7 conversations all praise you. Now, yes, he took my colleague Bubalo's word out of my mouth, if everyone praises you, I don't know if we have to praise you, too. But I honestly believe in the following, which is that the quality of someone's work cannot and must not be manifested in the abuse of those who are being watched. So whether someone is doing quality or unquality in Croatia, I don't think it can be connected to the one who should be monitoring, controlling, or any other time... That he needs to be harassed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm here on the side of those who are satisfied in cooperation with HANFA and which, now that I don't go into every detail but in any case they don't have much criticism. The only criticism I've ever heard, seriously, is that you're a little inactive when it comes to passing laws, different laws that regulate the actions of those you oversee. So is it possible that this lack of communication with us here in the Parliament, probably, is with someone else by the ministries, but in any case it would be necessary that HANFA cooperates more intensively or at least communicates and that you get a little more involved in situations where laws are passed that regulate the work of those you oversee? And thirdly, I said, briefly very much from the position of those who do business with everyone you oversee. So there is indeed a lot of things and, of course, that they all belong together to a Croatian economic space that does not go very well, with all due respect to the President of the Parliament, in the last few years, no better than before the recession, we know what is prolonged and perhaps among the longest in the European Union, and that logically in the overall unpreparability and instability of the legislative tax frameworks has a very difficult impact on many of you. However, what I would single out is that and that shows about where we are even though we speak in '13 on '12, which is the Zagreb Stock Exchange says further reduction in total traffic. Logically, therefore there are no new companies, no serious business activities, the Croatian economy continues to fail, therefore it is logical to reflect this on the Zagreb Stock Exchange as well. Secondly, on the opposite side of what I said, which is, you keep an eye on me if I'm not wrong, and FGS's so-called. Yeah. I think there's one big space and a recovery pool for many companies, especially industry. The FGS are also established before I have been wronged for 5 years precisely with the aim of investing in manufacturing companies in joint taxpayers and private sector money, i.e. to literally save production jobs. Not owners, not owners, but production jobs as logically made by many much more developed Western countries that have much more developed markets, however, have taken the right to save not the owners but the jobs in production. Every job in production today in Europe carries with it half to two jobs outside of production. So Croatia has no luxury and I am here in this assembly spent many, many minutes talking about it, and also about the tools that every country has to save jobs in production because it binds, so if you want to go to the university and to the level of our education system because if there is no production then and industry, then all of it together makes a little less sense and it becomes unsustainable financially. The third group I wanted to comment on is a very short factoring. The data says that, which is logical and just once again proves that the crisis is prolonging and deepening, and that is the net profit of factoring activity is 87% higher than in the year before. What does that mean? This means, in principle, that especially medium and small entrepreneurs lack money, that means that banks do not want to take risks in financing, which means that, in principle, at very expensive and unfavourable interest, Croatian businesses are actually selling their claims in order to literally survive from month to month. No surprise, but I had a need to stress that. Both last and not least, and this is the supervision of pension fund management companies. I just have to find out, it's not really about you, but in any case, the state and pension funds, which is the fact that unfortunately I think over 75% of their portfolios are government bonds, that these government bonds today quote on the world stock market badly, so the Croatian investment rating is in the trash and it makes it all more difficult for our vicious circle. Croatia's risk premium is following Greece's largest and, of course, everything that Croatian citizens invest in through a second pension column is additionally risky, and in some ways less valuable. So on the one hand, praise for progress, commendation for cooperation from the position of what I said, which is not to be harassed by those who are being monitored, should be spoken to, co-operated with. There are always the best solutions in the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107364	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica and respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107365	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I agree with you, especially in this last part of you that you've seen good things, good work. You said yourself they're coming at the expense of the gentleman himself, but you're saying something about harassment. You also said that in Croatia there, and that is why most of all I appear to you for the replica, everything in Croatia is failing. And what does that mean when it comes to this subject of failure? The hard work is going down, the scientific papers of even our students are written about it, so I would refer you to these scientific papers on all the affairs now, starting with Fimi Medie, etc. So it's all between 2007, 2006 and 2011. So it's been processed in the papers, on 700 charges we've been charged with Fimi Media, which has lost 70 million kuna, and we in Croatia, you say that the gentleman is inactive in this particular case, when the law is passed. We in the Croatian Parliament are passing laws, and exactly HANFA is in charge of co-operation with other institutions and it is doing it well and it is doing just fine with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Until then, we didn't even know, we heard it existed, but where did that office go? No one heard. And... so he published, it's to you, our media published it in 2006, 2007, until '09. They published what it was,...the headlines were with texts and which the laws we don't have. We still didn't have it then because there was a penalty for the basic act, a crime of money laundering, and not to mention the predicate criminal acts, so..., here I know by heart this title that he said, says the Croatian laundry of dirty money. So today in this situation when it's gone, I'm not saying that anywhere can't be distracted, no one can say, some part that's bad, but it was a system. Why don't you talk about it? That, Mr. Domagoj, our dear colleague, is failing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107366	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107367	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I must admit that I do not understand this connection between Fimi Medi and everything I've been saying, and I must honestly tell you about the collapse of the Croatian economy. If you're already pulling my tongue, the fact is next. During 2011 and early 2012, during this period absolutely all transition countries began to recover. All European countries fell in 2009, 2010, someone more, someone less. In 2011 and 2012, recovery started, mainly leaving the recession in all European countries except a few that are in much bigger problems than Croatia. However, by the arrival of the current government, by raising taxes unnecessary instead of restructuring and implementing reforms, Croatia logically sank back into recession in the fourth year of the crisis. The result to this day is the collapse of many companies and, unfortunately, the collapse of the entire economy. If that's the way it is, then look at the numbers, first of all the employees. So in the past 6 years, Croatia has lost 200,000 jobs. Now time can't return, but you'll agree to apologize to this government or if you want these parliamentary majority after 3.5 years. What happened five or six years ago is no longer interested in anyone. Hik rodus hik salta, the prime minister would say, should have done for the past 3.5 years what we all knew should be done, which began in 2011. Unfortunately, however, I do not know what reason it is unfortunately stressed, did not continue and did not continue to implement 2012 and 2013 and today we are where we are. I'm talking about this economic downturn that confirms all the data, and in addition, and especially when we're comparing today with one Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary. So we don't have to compare to the West anymore, we can compare ourselves to those who were looking at us 10-15 years ago. Now, as long as we slave Fimi media, we discuss in the Croatian Parliament about Fima media and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107368	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Ada Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107369	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Milosevic, in these late hours, you scared me right away as you started thinking black, I guess because it's dark out there, and then everything's black for you, and in Istria, they say the devil isn't as black as it looks, so it's certainly not our economic situation either. To be honest, if there's anything to praise, you say we praise HANFA, so if it's to be commended, let's commend something. Because otherwise all this catastrophic black talk is not so, but I'm glad that in the second part of your report you also praised the work of HANFA and that on that basis you might also support this report, and I believe this report is good. I believe that will be far better for 2014. You're saying we look at a little unemployment growing. Not true, unemployment falls with these measures. You say the pace to pass, that we return to what was before. Well, it's not like that. You know, when any government came, that came after you couldn't have had better results because it's ideal if you came to a zero state but when you get far below zero in the very pits where you left us, then it's very difficult to achieve better results. Therefore, this government is doing very well. The results are slow, but they are visible to both economic growth in both exports and employment, etc. So it's not all that black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107370	Thank you, too. Replica reply, respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107371	Thank you, Mr. President. My mood, dear lady, has absolutely nothing to do with time. It is unfortunately the last five, six, seven, eight, ten years of all that is happening in Croatia. Now, what bothers me the most personally, which is that it's trying just for political reasons in the election year to twist statistics. You know, when you have a technical exit from recession in 2011, two quarters is economic growth, and since then, but even if we ignore it, we ignore it. After that, three years of systematic economic downturn. That shows you the GDP movement. So, the beginning of solving life's problems is to say that you have a problem, I think. The beginning of seeing the crisis to say look at this we really have a problem. If you and this majority will ignore the fact that tens of thousands of people, unfortunately, I already know many who have left Croatia. If we don't face it in this House about what we're going to do, we're going to put our heads in the sand. Or we'll say that the problem is, let's talk in this House which we could do better. Or we'll watch who could have done it 10 or five years ago. I think honestly that Croatian citizens in 2015 are absolutely no longer interested in what was before. So, who can offer something today and make Croatia better with all the potential that Croatia has objectively, and I did, I commended myself from everything I said there and about HANFA and about what is happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107372	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the SDP club and the respected representative Davor Bernardic. He's gone. He's losing the right to discuss this as a club. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107373	Dear representative of the HANFA, actually President of the Board of Directors, my colleague. In fact, only colleagues can say, there are two other colleagues. I had no such honour in front of two colleagues and the President of the Parliament. Here's me congratulating them from the heart that the rest of these are I'd say evenings. But we've waited a long time for the HANFA report, but right now I want to say on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we will support this report. The report is based on 200 and some sides. We have this summary, but it's much more important than what's happening to us on the market, if we're seeing any shortcomings. Because you as HANFA are responding to the Croatian Assembly and surely watching this report we can say that the situation on the market I would say stable and in the system you control is indeed a wide spectrum, because seeing as you constantly carry out control of all the subjects then we can say that looking at the finals is what you wrote, and that's one criminal application just doesn't write against who, 30 misapplications and I'd like to hear a little bit about money laundering because just before my colleague Ingrid encouraged me to admit that I also wrote to the Ministry of Finance, so I was wondering how many applications last year were unnamed because we know that we can't get it, and how much volume it is covered and sure that I would like to share that information with the Croatian public. But looking at what you've been controlling, and HANFA surveillance entities have been investment companies that can say they're doing well, but surely we need to give legislation the possibility to invest in other societies, which would also encourage employment, but I would also say strengthening the Croatian economy. There are a lot of funds in the market and certainly looking at investment companies and their investments that are limited on the stock market, and we know that we have fewer and fewer shares on the list, then we can say that in the coming years we will have to comply with these solutions. The state will probably also issue new bonds, but looking at investment fund management companies, especially when we talk about pension societies, they are now receiving payments. But what'll be in 20, 30 years. Surely your controls and control mechanisms should reduce the risks associated with pension societies. Investment pension funds, you've controlled them a lot. I'll also say something about the insurance companies. One thing we have is a resecure company. I believe that the legislative regulation that we've been changing is just when we're talking about insurance companies that are going to show up some more new resecuritizers. But also looking at the Pension Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund, which unfortunately sinks with its volume and value, is certain that we should have taken some other things and cashed out the shares themselves so that people who gave their most valuable in the Homeland War could benefit more from the Croatian Defence Fund. Looking at also the missing societies, which record a reduced volume, and where we expect new risks to arise, because there remains a lot of that insurmountable certainty that there will be a need to control Leasing societies even more. We also see the companies that perform the factoring that they are increasing. Everyone tries to sell their claims and then sell it not only as it used to be done during the former government to some evictors but also factoring to the societies. Also, looking at the control of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, we see that the volume is getting smaller, the value of the shares increased in 2013 but it is negligible because the volume is quite shallow. the company is also controlled by investment advisers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should focus on investment advisors because we see on the market that there have been all kinds of tips, that there have been all kinds of failures and especially when we talk about currency risks, when we talk about other things. I'd like you to talk about your controls, especially your currency risks. Do you estimate that everything that you control on the Croatian market will have any impact? Also, I would like to say that when it comes to representatives and housing savings and financial agency, Croatian Post Office, we see that the Croatian Post Office has stabilised business but we see that there are all kinds of mechanics on the Croatian market, especially Raiffeisen. I'd like to hear if you could control them too because we can see that they played a lot on the Croatian market, and no one seemed to control and didn't even have the CNB's license. We also see that it took part in the creation of 10 new laws and 5 amendments and additions of existing laws and made 55 new regulations, 26 amendments and additions to the rules and issued 34 opinions, 4 decisions and 2 instructions. Congratulations on that, and you may further suggest that you are also in the Croatian Assembly where you feel in your controls where we can make changes. It is certain that the Croatian Parliament has met your requirements as well as the needs of the market, we have adapted ourselves to European legislation because it is known in 2013 that we have entered the EU and that a lot has changed, but it has been seen that Croatia has already been prepared for this entry when we talk about the financial sector. But I want to say something about premiums per type of insurance that are recorded in certain segments of the fall on the Croatian market. It is evident that the insurance of road vehicles from 720 458 thousand fell to 662 700. So 91.98% is the index, so almost 8 percent fell road insurance. In terms of volume, I must admit that this has been quite surprising to me, so I believe that this should be a guideline for the Minister of the Interior whether all vehicles in the Republic are being controlled, and that's the side of the 103rd table, and I'm going to talk about it just a little bit more. I believe the minister would have something to do because looking down from 720 thousand to 662,000 road vehicles, I have to show my concern because it turns out that in Croatia people do not provide their vehicles. Well, let this be the alarm bell and the Home Secretary. But we can see the security of the track vehicles. Well, it seems that the Croats are no longer driving cars but tram vehicles, because 54% of them have increased the number of vehicles secured. It is evident that the guarantee insurance fell by 23%, it is evident that travel insurance fell by 10% because Croatians seem to be no longer travelling or being insured. But what records a significant increase, which is rent insurance, 34%. So it seems that the residents of the Republic of Croatia estimate that pension funds will not fulfil their obligations and go to rent insurance. But what's also important is additional insurance with life insurance, we see that 5% fell, I must admit that I laughed a little bit when I saw that the insurance in the case of a wedding or birth was also down 8% in this year. Looks like people in our house are afraid of weddings and births, so they're not going to provide that anymore either. But I also want to say that these controls are very important because these very institutions work with other people's money and can lead to major market disturbances. We didn't have them, and for sure, it's a sign of one good control, a systematic control of HANFA. A moment ago, he told his fellow Milosevic to praise you all, but I would like to see some of you pleaded. It's gone, so I won't do it today either. And I just want you to talk about these numbers I mentioned. Looking at 54 direct controls, seeing that you have completed 48 reports, I wish you had written more perhaps in the reports in the controls themselves which have detected irregularities and which is a general problem in order to make it easier for the Croatian Parliament to change certain legal solutions. Because that's exactly what you can detect through your own controls. In this exhaustive report, however, you did not look back much on them. I would also like to hear your answer between these 26 insurances and something I said about volume, and we know on the Croatian market that black shelves are often mentioned. Did you notice in your reports that there were shelves that weren't registered? Because what I was saying the other day when there was a report when it was the Insurance Act, that's that we have insurance companies that aren't bonds of the fiscal register, and I think if there's an 8.5 billion kuna that you should be bonds of the fiscal register. Because we often hear a conversation on the Croatian market of insurance companies that some play and some don't record shelves. So I'd like to ask the answer right now if you've had a chance in your controls in these past years to trace black shelves because unfortunately we haven't had a chance to read about it in the media. But we often listened in the field that it was on the Croatian market. Also exposure to currency risk, please respond. But I also want to say that in the last year, you had an increased number of complaints from consumers. You've had 201 complaints. I would also ask your answer as to what they were most concerned, which is what consumers most indicated but I can see that, the report says that they pointed most to insurance companies, and now what was the subject, precisely those consumer concepts that we have to protect because just as the Croatian Parliament wants to protect them, so do you like HANFA. Well, I'd like to ask you what the answers were to those complaints, and did you, on that basis, possibly file any criminal charges, criminal charges or anything else in your domain? I still expect you to work on risk prevention because just by reducing the risk Croatia can go forward and also individual houses that I say work with other people's money. Looking at this report we can say that it is good, that it is justified and we can say that the Croatian system, I would say that you have controlled stable but we also have to prevent risks and especially when we talk about pension funds because there will be what you are now controlling in 20 or 30 years and then it will certainly be late. Therefore, we do not want the risks of your control to happen in this work and the improvement of the process is very important. And therefore the HDSSB will support your report. We wish you a lot of success in your work, but here you are, begging right now for these answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107374	Thank you, too. There are no more registered representatives' clubs or individual debates. Does the proposaler's representative finally give the word? Here you go. The Honorable President of the Board, Petar-Pierre Matek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107375	Thank you very much. I'll try to briefly answer all questions from the esteemed representative of the Bubal. As far as criminal charges are concerned, in 2013, there were 30 of them, which is about the same as in previous years if we look back in 2011, plus a minus a few. As far as leasing companies are concerned, yes, and I said earlier about 2014 there will be even more significant reductions in assets, most of which relate to placements from before the start of the crisis. We do not see any major risks to the stability of the financial system as a whole, these are mostly some very large companies that are now in the liquidation and closure phase of their problematic placements where their owners, mostly foreign financial institutions, make up for that lack of capital by paying and recapitalisations. With regard to currency risks, I must admit that I am not sure exactly what the question was, if it was related to loans as well as to Raiffeisen cooperatives, it is not from the jurisdiction of the HANFA and I cannot comment on it. The fall of the insurance vehicles this amount of 720 and the drop to 660 is millions of kunas, not the number of vehicles, so the gross premium in the helmet insurance has fallen. Rent insurance has grown 34%, which is negligible, it's several million kunas, and it's also a wedding and birth insurance, and it's not like you're making sure of the risks you're going into with your wedding than it's been for many years in advance for your children and you get a certain premium on the day you get married or the day your child is born. As far as the black shelves are concerned, we've been trying to detect them, not detecting them to some extent. So we did control work, we don't see that it would be some kind of systemic risk or some very big systemic problem. As far as the subject of the performances are concerned, they are detailed in the annual report. Insurance and woodworking are the most common, it is normal because the largest number of users of insurance and lease services is among the citizens. The insurance is mainly about dissatisfaction with the processing of damages, dissatisfaction with the amount of security paid and in the case of leases, in the event of termination of the contract due to non-payment of the resing war by the users. There we have seen certain illogicalities in the general acts of leasing societies that we have seen along the way thanks to these performances and corrected. Here's so much from me. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-16-0.u107376	Thank you too, Mr. President of the Board of Directors. That's how we exhausted this subject. I'm closing the debate. We're finishing today's session. We start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014 to 2018. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Annual report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2013. The debate on the annual report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2013. A year.". Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion was made by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and nothing against.
