ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96630	The first one was Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96631	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the National Reformist Party because of a situation where they are employees of the Castelan greenhouses.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96632	My colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96633	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for the same break of 10 minutes, but for the workers, the designer of engineering from Split, who didn't get 15 salaries from the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96634	I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the request of the HDZ Club, this House decided that the director of HRT must submit a report, in fact information on its salaries and salaries of HRT leaders. The document that the MPs received yesterday on the bench is embarrassing and I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ club to read about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96636	Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96637	He doesn't know what to ask for a break sooner, we want for the greenhouses, for the designer, for the RIZ, for HRT, but this should be the last thing Mr. Shucker said about the HRT director's report, and in connection with the average gross and net salary on HRT, which the Croatian Parliament did not actually ask for but rather something else, which is hidden in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96638	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96639	The same issue of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96640	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96641	It's available to agricultural land in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96642	Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96643	Madam Vice President, also related to Mr. Radman's report at the request of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96644	Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96645	Same about HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96646	I'm setting a break until 9.44 and now we've turned the start of the session every morning into a joint press conference of clubs. I don't think that's right after all. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96648	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Schuker cited the reason why the HDZ Club asked for a break to look again at the shameful response of Croatian director Goran Radman, and regarding the conclusion of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament since 6 March 2015 when we requested that Mr. director of HRT provide us with information regarding his salary and the salary of leading people on HRT both in administrative terms and in programme terms. Of course, we expected the minimum respect of Croatian director Radman towards the Croatian Parliament more than the fact that this Croatian Parliament chooses him by its vote, the more Croatian representatives when they reach the conclusion, the conclusions that interest Croatian citizens, and we can read this as subscribers of HRT which separate their money according to the Act on the Functioning of HRT and thus also for Mr Radman's salary. Mr. Radman was also defending himself in this debate that it was a secret information, as if it were some kind of private or semi-private corporation where it was some kind of business secret, so it would damage HRT if the public found out about his data. He defended himself that he could not do this to other people, and we invite him from HDZ if he had any morals, courage and responsibility to deliver a payroll for the last month, his personal payroll for the last month, or March 2015, and then we will see if this response to the Croatian Assembly is to the conclusion delivered by Mr. Radman only embarrassed as we can all see or is false. If Mr. Goran Radman, the majority of whom votes to trust in his reports, and when members of the Supervisory Board warn about irregularities, then the majority replaces and resolves members of the Supervisory Board, when he is warned that he is not stalking journalists and editors, when he is called on not to share his resignations with the Croatian press at HRT, when he insists against the Ministry of Culture and personally appeals against him not to go with HINA's fusion initiative with HRT because he wants to make additional control of the information, then the majority of them supporting Mr. Radman are advertised. In doing so, colleagues and colleagues are the main problem and this answer. What will you do about your colleagues and colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition if Mr Goran Radman does not respect the conclusion as the Croatian Parliament voted him, you will continue to push your head into the sand, you will continue to replace members of the Supervisory Board, you will continue to remain silent on the drive of newspapers, you will continue to prove that it is only important for you to have HRT in your information program to help your preservation of power? Friends and colleagues, let's not play with our own conclusions. If we have already reached that conclusion, we from HDZ call again on this route to respond adequately to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, we invite it to submit a payroll for the past months to see whether and deceive the Croatian Parliament and announce that immediately after the Easter holidays we will take further efforts and further steps to determine the interest, truth and in the interest of Croatian citizens, in fact those who finance this HRT and who, in the sense of public interest, have the right to know this information as well. As for the report, you can take a look at Madam Vice President, this is a disgrace to all of us, including those in charge of holding a session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96649	We saw him, we got him on the bench. Why would it be for me? On behalf of HDSSB, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96650	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. You resent us for interrupting and looking for a break, and we could every day about as many topics as we have requested today, starting with the Immunological, the availability of agricultural land, Adriatic greenhouses, Construction, Croatian Railways, Shipyards, RIZ transmitters and at the end of Croatian TV. This report, which is 14x4 centimeters in the table, see the public needs to know, 14 centimeters times 4cm HRT's report on the average gross and net salaries of directors, executives, 99 of them. This report is an underestimating and embarrassing response to the Croatian Parliament's conclusion that the real data is being delivered. It says here, so why do I say this because it says average gross salary, we didn't ask for average gross wages, we didn't ask for average net wages, but we asked for individual salaries per person, so it doesn't have to write the name and last name, but according to the systematization in Croatian television, that it knows exactly how much each individual receives, not average. This is for students, not for the Croatian Parliament, this is extremely underestimating as it applies here, Mr. Chief Director of Croatian Television to us MPs, so this report is even worse, as if we are running with him, so we are behind him while he is carrying the staff, those from the cinema, or as if we are ideologically scarred flight readers, so he prescribes us like this with this table 14x4 cm, which says that average gross salaries are for 3165 employees 437 million kuna, and for these 99 people he writes about and lists, and he doesn't write them how gross or net pay is. But I've calculated, it doesn't say, and I've calculated the total talk about that about 24 million gross wages, 12.5 million net wages total to them 99. But that's not what we asked for, it's completely irrelevant to what the Croatian Parliament wanted. Croatian television is public television, so to speak, and so it is called, and then it is a matter of Croatian television and public matter, the thing of every citizen who pays 80 kuna fees and many very hard to issue 80 kuna fees for Croatian television. And every citizen of the Republic wants to know how his money goes, not like this. Furthermore, there's nothing in this report, but nothing, not how many people are employed in technicals, how many journalists, how many editors are on the payroll? Let him write it for us. How many lawyers in Croatian TV, what is the relationship between creative staff and technology staff, and in the management structure of Croatian television? That's what we're looking for and that's what we're looking for. How much money is spent on a trip to Dubrovnik when a new studio is opened in OTP bank rooms, how much money is spent in Houston when going to buy technical stuff, excuse Las Vegas when going to buy technical stuff for Croatian television, which are the amounts? This is what we asked for because we see that on Croatian television there is nothing wrong and we know well that it does not begin with the release of Mrs Nadi Prkacin, Mrs Elizabeth Gojan, Hloverki Novak Srzić, Karolini Vidovic. Who's next in line, who's next in line? And given the young answers of the Croatian Journalist Society. So, we must repeat what we have already said and what we have been looking for, or will we add as the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly's request for clearly expressed figures because it is a public matter, as every citizen of the Republic through the Committee of Conflict of Interest, the fight against conflicts of interest can find out the property of every representative and president of the Republic, or president now and each and every one, why would Mr. Radman and his suite be excluded from such practice? So who are they? So who chooses them? They're public television, are they gonna say public stuff? We all need to have their property card and pay. And he says, you can't technically, how can you not? So what do they receive wages from? And let's see where they're going, there's gonna be a special story about that. [[Intruder: Time.]] About the fees, about the copyright, about the outside production, and that would just be a piece of tape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96651	Thank you. Get less excited. On behalf of independent leftists, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96652	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, today we should discuss here quite safely the resignation, or the replacement of Mr. Director Radman. A few days or weeks ago, you better say weeks ago, 3 Croatian Radio Television journalists were fired, that is Kristo, Srzić Novak and Gojan, Mrs Kristo, Srzić Novak and Gojan. I think that's where Mr. Radman should be. And now I'm going to explain why. The Commission for the Analysis of Budgetary Users has put Croatian Radio Television under a special bat because there is a huge disproportionateity between receiving on Croatian Radio and there is a reasonable doubt that there are too many salaries that we have been claiming all along. When I was chairman of the Media Committee, I asked on behalf of the board that the director-in-chief Radman and then the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Gotovina, submitted a report on the receipts, not the salaries, the remuneration of employees on Croatian radio and contract annexes. And first, either he's lying to the Committee for Budgetal Cost Analysis or he's lying to Director Radman. I'm kind of more inclined to the Committee because that's what the title tells him, we should believe it because it's the Commission and it's named by the government and I believe that the government didn't put up the commission formally. And this is the alarm, the red alarm that Mr. Radman is doing whatever he wants. Or the Kukuriku coalition told him to do whatever you want, we'll formally question you, send what he sent. This is a show of long nose, this is a mockery of the Croatian Parliament, and if we allow it, then how will the citizens of the Republic treat us as parliamentary representatives when the director of the main television, Croatian television director tells the Croatian Parliament I don't respect you, I don't appreciate what you're looking for, I won't give it to you, I will make fun of you. It's this report, it's a shame. This is embarrassing. If someone was outside the Kukurik coalition, so just if he had done this in power, the media would have crucified him for months. It's like it's a piece of work. We need to protect the soldiers on Prisavlje. A soldier not Ryan, but Radman. And why is that protected? So what's happening on Croatian TV is another reason for the shift, for the shift, not for the resignation, and they say, so they tell us that she was, she needs to be an example to others so there's no confusion. In the 7th month of 2012, I asked for a shift from this pay phone, and now they say, now you're looking for a shift. At 12, we were looking for the HDSSB also asked for Mrs. Andree's shift at the time, Zlatar Violic. All that's going on on HRT is the result of the disastrously bad HRT Act. One man has all the power in his hands. And it doesn't answer to anyone but the boss of the party, and that's terrible. What happened corresponds was introduced on HRT verbal delinquent. There some were to be fired for working with other televisions because of their bad work. But no, only when people have raised their voice, when they say sorry, what they're doing on HRT is bad, they have a right. Mr. Radman does not distinguish commercial television from public television. Looks like he doesn't even know his job. Secondly, the worst part is that we agree to this relationship between Radman and the Croatian Parliament. Second thing, I read today in the paper that HRT is not a beneficiary of the state budget, so she doesn't need it. She is a beneficiary of subsidies and she has a duty to inform those million 200 thousand subscribers who patch up the end of how much she earns on HRT with it not being a witch hunt, only needs to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96653	On behalf of the HGS and Jadranka Kosor Club, the respected Jadranka Kosor will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Radman's report. I'm not sure I counted precisely, but here are 6 lines, 16 words, including allies and several figures, and that's all, so without a single sentence of the report to the Croatian Parliament of the institution, we can also call it HRT in state property, which according to the Law on HRT corresponds to the Croatian Assembly, has to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament, the director is elected in the Croatian Parliament. So the Croatian Parliament is responsible for this report which is inadmissible and since it does not comply with Law 9 of the HRT, it is my assessment, of course it is illegal. So the Croatian Parliament must react. This is not a topic for press conferences, this is not a topic for presses, but is a topic for discussion in the assembly because the director of HRT is elected in the Croatian Parliament and this is, of course, an indication of the relationship between the responsible and the signatories of this report which is not according to the Croatian Parliament institution and ultimately according to one of the branches of government in the Republic of Croatia. But I think Mr. Radman acted very consistently. There's something he can't complain about, so journalists, HRT employees, because of the speech, were fired on HRT, so Mr. Radman obviously adheres to his principle, and he doesn't actually say anything in his report either. So this is ignoring the Croatian Parliament, we must also react to it. The reaction requires a reaction. I propose that Mr Radman, or HRT, be asked to take a new report within 7 days to discuss this report in the Croatian Parliament, because the salaries and all other data on the operation of HRT cannot and must not be secret for MPs and MPs in the Assembly, but not for the entire Croatian public, and that after that, we make a decision, open the debate and make decisions that are self-imposed from this report which is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96655	And finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, the respected Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96656	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club – Liberal Democrats, I express my condemnation and bitterness because the head director of HRT, whom this House has appointed to be an honorable duty and a demanding and responsible duty, has actually expressed a high level of ignoring, disrespect and underestimation of the Croatian Parliament. I do not remember that it ever happened that in conclusion requiring further information or a Croatian Parliament report to any institution anyone has ever dared to address the High House in this way. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament was clear, decided and unequivocal. It sets out what the Croatian Parliament required. What is required has not been delivered. The information that has been delivered is actually in the form of a jokebachter that can possibly serve someone to participate in the debate so that they can handle numbers is not what we were looking for and certainly not the complete information that would give a realistic picture of the state of pay on Croatian radio. This information that we have everything that's even richer is a public manipulation. Because the data, these cumulative data on the gross and net salaries of responsible people on Croatian television may match the average criterion in 2014, but do not match what we requested. First of all, we know that in late January the pay limits were lifted and that today is a completely different situation than last year, even on average. Equally, we have been warned from people on Croatian Radio Television that there are more than 15 people on the board of Croatian Radio Television alone who have new annexes that have corrected salaries from the working contract. Therefore, this data that we have is absolutely nothing, this is unusable information, and therefore we require the Director-General of Croatian Television to deliver a full report within 7 days as the Croatian Parliament has bound it with its clear and decided conclusion. Only when we receive this report can we further discuss not only the salaries, but also the other elements that are important for the assessment of the situation on Croatian TV and then the responsibility of the director, director-in-chief of Croatian Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u96657	Thank you. We heard the club opinions. These views of clubs will certainly not be the last word of the Croatian Parliament compared to the report we received, as these lists the salaries for 99 perpetrators of 3165 as many as they are employed in Croatian broadcasting. But our reaction must be consistent with our Rules of Procedure. I assume that the Media Committee will launch the first step, the first initiative towards the tide, that these opinions of the constituencies and formalize. Now we'd stop this topic and move on to the scheduled agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105596	Today we will discuss - Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. The report shall be submitted to the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. You've received the material, but we already have our hands in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105597	This is the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. The report shall be submitted to the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. You've received the material. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable President of the National Council, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105598	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This, as the vice president has said, is the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. This is therefore not the report of the President of the Council, which was the Council's report which unanimously set out the proposal for this report and sent it to the Croatian Parliament for discussion. It is therefore the report on work for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. In accordance with the Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Programme, the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption has now been given to the National Council specific tasks in accordance with the Founding Decision. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, as the name itself tells it and monitors and monitors the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. It brings the strategy to the Croatian Parliament's proposal. The Croatian Parliament has adopted a strategy to combat corruption, and now it is the new Corruption Prevention Strategy for 2015 to 2020. Based on the adopted Corruption Prevention Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Croatia is drawing up action plans related to the strategy. These action plans shall give obligations and orders to all entities, as a rule to all ministries, various government agencies and state bodies, to implement certain measures imposed on them in action plans, which are related to prevention and repression, repression of corruption. The National Council shall also consider whether all these individual entities have carried out what they are ordered to do in the action plans to implement these measures. Therefore, the National Council, except as it monitors and monitors the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, shall analyse the reports of the competent authorities on the implementation of the strategy and action plans to combat corruption and assess the way and the results of the implementation. It is a key role of the National Council, which as one control body or body of the Croatian Parliament, participates in the prevention and control of corruption. During the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014, the Council held 8 regular and 1 thematic sessions and in these 8 regular sessions, an analysis was taken and accepted of 15 reports by individual holders of the action plan implementation measures under the Corruption Prevention Strategy. From the Commission for Decision on Conflict of Interest, the Office for Government Associations, the State Office for Central Public Procurement, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and a whole series of ministries. At these meetings of the National Council, reports of these individual measures were analysed and adopted, so the various ministries and these various bodies, including in particular the State Attorney's Office, were they executed or not implemented and in accordance with whether they had implemented within the time limit of certain measures imposed on them by the action plan. At all these sessions within the scope of this section, the National Council discussed and analysed and found that it was enormous that all these state bodies including the ministries, the DORH, the USKOK, that they had met within the deadlines set those measures they had been imposed on them. The second beyond that, the National Council shall not go out in its own part, but shall monitor and control whether these measures are envisaged by the action plan. In a further period, which is already in 2014, all other reports were considered by the end of 2014. This report, which is in front of you, provides a very comprehensive overview of all those operators who have been tasked with implementing certain measures in the action plan with the Anti-corruption Strategy. It would not be useful to extract now a single body, a particular ministry, an individual agency which stated it in its report because this report actually contains only one sum of all those measures implemented by certain ministries and certain bodies in charge of implementing the action plan measures. We had a very interesting thematic session at the National Council on the subject of "Corruption and Abuse of the Legal Institute of Pre-Arrangement settlement" where highly respectable experts and experts discussed at this thematic session on how far this institute of pre-departure settlement and its legal arrangement is to the extent that it is coordinated with corruption and to what extent it is misused. And at the next session of the Parliament there will be a lot of debates about pre-nuptial settlements and all her stuff. The result of this thematic session on the pre-fashion settlement was that it was sent to the Government to propose amendments and amendments to that law and I think it is ongoing. So, I would no longer be presenting various statistics and various figures and everything that has been discussed at the National Council sessions, you have in this report. I would only end up adding that the National Council cannot engage and that it does not comply with the decision, according to its own part-round in a particular specific example of corruption. We received in the National Council various complaints from citizens where they pointed to corruption in certain sectors. All these objections and proposals and applications were essentially forwarded to the National Council either the DORH or the USKOK and requested to examine, consider and initiate appropriate criminal proceedings if there is a place and basis within its scope and to inform us again about what process actions have taken. This has always received feedback from the National Council on whether anti-x.y criminal charges were accepted, an investigative request has been launched or other procedural actions relating to corruptive crimes have been taken. The next report will now cover the period related to 2014 and so far in this period, this part of the period 2015 and will again be discussed by the National Council on the implementation of action plans, i.e. the revised action plan relating to the new anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. Finally, we propose to the Croatian Parliament, the National Council proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept this report on the work of the National Council for the observed period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105599	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105600	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shex, this report is indeed comprehensive, very detailed and is currently working on the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, on analysis and monitoring, but whether the council has seen such an interesting fact so far, and this is that the corruption index, or scale on which Croatia is practically the same, or the place of Croatia on that scale, is always the same. So 10 years ago, our corruption index or we were on the corruption index scale at 69 places. Last year, transparency internationale put Croatia 61 places, which means in 10 years we moved, we didn't even move 10 places. With this many measures, with this many analyses, with this many action plans, practically Croatia did not bounce visiblely in the fight against corruption and the question arises whether all these measures are sufficiently active or simply drowned in self-execution, bureaucratic enforcement here are any control measures and without concrete and effective results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105601	There is, of course, no need to respond to this replica that should actually be part of the debate you applied for because this is not a replica. Second replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shakespeare, you mentioned a round table that dealt with the issue of pre-banking corruption. It is true what you said, the fact that a large number of prominent experts, legal experts, had primarily participated in the debate, but one of the conclusions was to go into the emergency procedure of amending that law because it was clearly heard on that round table that it was deeply corrupt law. So the law allowing corruption and therefore one of the conclusions was to propose to the Croatian government an urgent amendment to this law in order for demand to be specifically confirmed in courts rather than under the applicable rules of the applicable law. Here's almost a year I've been thinking from that round table, although the changes were announced for the fall last year, so you can only conclude that someone in the government is responsible for continuing to follow a law that is corrupt according to the conclusion of the round table very clearly. It really raises the question then the meaning of our round table if and after a year we didn't actually change and supplement that law that made it possible, and we could see from some of the cases that appeared in public that big actual corruption had been made possible and that amazing things were happening through the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105603	The topic is not a discussion of the conclusions of the round table but of the work of the National Council and its report, so it is logical that fellow Shakespeare does not need to respond to this replica that is not. We're going to a club debate. In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, Independent Left-wings will speak for the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105604	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will speak in the National Council's report, not to mention constantly the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. When it comes to corruption, more specifically the bodies, programmes, strategies that should be reduced, prevented or eradicated, I have the impression that often, such an impression and prevails to talk about Norway. Or we love virtual reality. That sense of zero tolerance rate towards corruption has become a spent flossula. Smart people, who doubt, wonder if bribing civil servants and people in influential positions is a matter of mentality or system. Even history corresponds to the system of the state, the state institutions, the society over which the powers watch and impose games that reduce awareness of what is and is not good. The very introduction of the report states that corruption is defined as a harmful social phenomenon that violates fundamental social values and as is very important for further discussion of the historical, psychological, sociological, economic, political and legal phenomenon. I agree entirely with that definition. This time I was intrigued by that historical aspect mentioned in the report. In the Middle Ages, we were civilized as far as morals are concerned, an advanced environment with very good legislation. In the Middle Ages in today's Croatia, we held to a morale that is often under mockery in the assembly today. In the 16th century, in the Statute of Dubrovnik, it was said that the prince of Dubrovnik would not help a friend or harm the enemy. If the person taking care of the finances writes in the Statute of Dubrovnik, they would give money to the MP to follow the penalties. The one who would give the money is fined at 6 months in prison and the one who received the money would first serve 6 years in prison, lost his service and privileges if receiving bribes were proved to be in addition to sentences were publicly disgraced and excommunicated from the community. He didn't hang out with them. The situation in Dubrovnik has changed. So when we say we're going back to middle sin, let's not sin, we're not going back, we're going much deeper. Today the violation of the law is rewarded. Lawyers were not allowed to associate with clients, says the Statute of Dubrovnik and Lastovski's Statute prohibited judges from eating and drinking with those who are being tried. And what is the relationship between Hanžekovic and Bandic and why he is as he is, we all know. It's abnormal and immoral today, unlike the Middle Ages, it's normal. And we support that, it's a social convention. In the medieval statute of the city of Rijeka, it says that illegally acquired property has to be taken away and there are records and was taken away and after it was taken away was sold at auction or belonged to the community. The status of the town of Cres and Osora prescribed that non-fishers should be fined and thrown into the stakes for a month and then taken away the nets and prevented further fishing. It is also interesting that the Korčulan Statute on what was meant by public interest injury in the Middle Ages shows a provision by which every act against the commune and against its community was punished by the death penalty of the head, short for the head the property was confiscated and the house in which it lived was leveled with the ground. Why? That every seed should be destroyed unfairly. Because it was unfair, the dishonesty was a shame. Imagine how many civil servants, politicians, lower and higher ranks today would walk without a head. I don't call on the Middle Ages but I don't approve of the Wild West whose unwritten laws are stronger, more influential in action. Those written are few who hold or hold only those who have to stick to them, the weak ones who do not belong to the privileged and chosen rich and the group that enables the rich. When I read this report, I was under the impression that it was a chapter of some SF novel. This is why I quote this in the report: "Croatian National Theatre is a Croatian Culture headquarters that has always been the most important factor in preserving national cultural identity in a broad context of diverse weather conditions. The intertwination and conflict and connection of Europe's and the entire world's cultural space. Accordingly, national theatres are financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia or the budget of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, especially through the prism of the unmistakably important roles played in Croatian society is their reputation, which is seen in the transparency of work and publicly available information. The results of the survey on the transparency of the work of national theatres have not yet been made public.". Accurate claims on the importance of national theatres and Croatia has them as rich countries most likely in the world are written twice in the report. Same passport. He's in the report twice. And twice it's written that the results haven't been published yet, you don't know why it's written at all. The report says that among the most important consequences of corruption is the loss of public trust in state authorities, a public institution, I agree. And who runs these institutions? Some water and direct sources have selected persons suspected of corruption under investigation and convicted. The report also addresses the problem of educating citizens about what corruption is and how to report corruption. Reading these instructions, I remembered several surveys published in the media after Bandic finished both for the first time and for the second time in custody. A few answers to the question about what they thought about detainment came about. You have on YouTube, if he was taking his own, he was giving it to us. Pure legalisation of corruption without comment from journalists, in Croatia, on public television. The awareness of possible corruption therefore exists but it does not even publicly condemn itself in front of the cameras. Corruption is generally accepted. Why, because it's already become a model of conduct. So the mayor of any city feels like he's giving you something. He doesn't distribute our money but gives it like Santa Claus, and for God's sake, Santa has his own needs. What he takes for himself is he takes for haters of the Martians, not for us, he gives us. Printed lenses that are mentioned in the report and have not received some wonderful result or in the context of the famous one, at the beginning of the mutually accepted promise by Minister Jovanovic we will dry out the football swamp, we seem to be getting tired of a lot of things. They've only dried up citizens' pockets. The introduction of the report says that the state's attorney organisation was in general engaged in the persecution of the perpetrators of corrupt crimes, and we remain one of the countries at the top after corruption. We see ourselves and others see us as such, especially investors, but no country without bad or decent state institutions or parts of institutions, members of these institutions would be very corrupt. Without the participation of institutions in corruption, corruption is gone, no drug trafficking. Too few results from these state-owned law institutions with so much work. Special attention is still being paid, the report says, conducting financial investigations to freeze property acquired by criminal acts and ensure its confiscation in criminal proceedings. We are at the top of corruption, in the judiciary at the very bottom, which logically both at the bottom and confiscation of property acquired in a criminal way. It's about the systematic protection of whistles that are not naturally protected by a special law because they say in the government already the existing law, whistles are being protected. In what way? So they're out of a job, being squished, being hunted, being blackmailed. The biggest protection to whistlers was given these days by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, by the appointment of the most famous Croatian whistler Vesna Balenović in her office. Perhaps this act will begin not only to protect but also to appreciate whistles without which numerous affairs would not be revealed. Almost every page of the report is said to be conducted in public services and, for example, in prisons to conduct surveys on the real risks of corrupt behavior. Is that prevention, is that the basis for the survey and who thinks the polls will reduce corruption? After all, how objective we are and how unrealistic we are, how much we are pulling citizens by the nose is a clear witness to the evaluation of civil servants. Only 6 of them didn't get a passing grade, only 6, these are all good, or they got a good enough grade. How strange, such as the government’s strange reaction to, for example, 187 agencies, institutions, and funds that employ 26,000 people. Whenever I talk about the need to cut down on the number of agencies, that many waste money irrationally, that they're a burden on citizens, that they're not doing their jobs, I was honored by the demagogue 1 label or the demagogues all of you who talk about it. Well, according to that principle, demagogue is also Minister of Finance Lalovec because he's doing what we suggested three years or two years or a year ago. He announces structural changes in agencies, institutions and funds to save, say a billion kuna. And if we were willing, if we were to listen to what the opposition is saying, we would now have at least 4 billion kunas more because there would be 4 billion savings. 187 agencies with an army of 26 000 employees are confirming political corruption because there are arrests there, as there are many party arrests in these agencies. If you remove half of the agencies at this point, as a matter of principle, breaking out petals, will do less damage than agencies like those that received one year of 7 cases, for 5, they were incompetent, and 2 failed to resolve. And there's still that agency. Why? Well, they're people, there are these people, no one got fired, and that merger is the same fog that needs to be driven away, and we have geese. Or, for example, these governments were founded by an Investment Agency with never less investment. These people were to be hired, and they know exactly who they are, whose people they are, and they are protected. Look at public enterprises, ministries and other state institutions, you'll see that many of the job refuges of many families, they're whole families inside. Take a look at the last names when they came and what signs they have politically. And as we say, zero tolerance rates towards corruption. Is there anything the National Monitoring Council can do to combat the corruption strategy of the Croatian Parliament when the Parliament, and not there to some council, there to some committee, there to some ordinary representative, the director of HRT Goran Radman with a smile, tells me to do what he wants me to do. That's what we were talking about earlier. I will resign for verbal delinquency, I will be in conflict of interest without career consequences, I will help friends and godfathers, I will deafen myself to the unanimous conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. Is that possible? It's possible. Is there anything the National Council can do with the institutions whose bosses get up from time to time, and after years of waiting, whether the National Council can do anything when it's been justified for several years and from the highest places, and that's what the President justifies? The Council only monitors, monitors statistics, and it is defeating, except when it's being supervised here by state lawyers who threaten parliamentary deputies and investigate them because they dare speak. That is why we must be careful when we say that we are going back to the Middle Ages so that we do not offend many Middle Ages Croats whose morality and interest the community was in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105605	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105606	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, you were talking about corruption, connecting her with morality or lack of morality. Corruption and morality don't have much to do with it. Corruption is shorter. It's not an immoral act for which we're going to give a heavy warning, to read a letter. It's just stealing. And people who do that don't hurt their cheeks. Public disgrace does not mean anything to them, as the mayor of Dubrovnik has shown nicely. Doesn't mean public disgrace to him. The only organ that hurts him is his pocket and, of course, he needs to be fired in that pocket. The headpiece is way out of line, I agree. We gave it up a few hundred years ago from the head section. But everything that is written in the Korčula Statutes, as it says in the Split Statute, as it says in the Polish Statute, all of this is actually good and could fit perfectly in with our laws that we have as moral legislators. The report that we have received seems to me not to follow corruption, not to follow nor to fight corruption, but to a relatively unsuccessfully cover up the fact that no one in this country wants to think about it seriously, but rather to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105607	The replica matches Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105608	Dear fellow Vuljanic, it is true that corruption and morality have nothing to do with it, because where corruption is not morale and there is no connection. No morals, no corruption. Well the question now is these days, we can get up every day and say here's the new corruption. I'm wondering, without prejudicing the verdict of the indictment, anything, but I'm asking how can someone in custody lead the capital of the Republic of Croatia? How can she do that? How can that happen in the first place? How can such laws exist in Croatia that allow you to be in custody for six months and to be held in custody regardless of how guilty you are, you are not talking about guilt. They say this is the last shift that was made, the deputy mayor is pure comedy, tragedy. Every day, we give thousands of reasons for citizens to doubt and say that by giving up everything, depression is stronger. And what you said about the head section being completely certain that it's excessive, no one's causing it. But I'm just saying that in the Middle Ages they fought against corruption, that today we're actually fooling ourselves about fighting corruption. Corruption is growing, citizens are living worse, more and more millionaires who have become rich in corruption, favouring the political elite, the economic elite. And it seems to me that if we don't get to work and we don't start wheezing now 24 hours and after that, we're going to act, but not like Mr. Bajic, who's going to become a constitutional judge, so we don't wheeze and please some probably even from that position, then we're writing black.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105609	Another replica, respected Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Vuksic. We are today discussing a report which, in my personal opinion, is a citizen and representative of the mere form, because in your presentation, you mentioned fishermen who threw them into the logs. In that part, we haven't even gotten far today. Namely, when a fisherman breaks the law in professional fishing and today he is being prosecuted and that counts for serious crime. But when you walk the streets of Zagreb and other Croatian cities and watch jeeps that cost 100 thousand euros, then no one wonders how many such limos were bought in situations in which it was done by law, obtained by law, paid tax by law. You mentioned whistles. It's a little small, it's too weak a tool. It's bad for society if it only relys on individual courage unless there's a system. Real and serious crime is a major crime. They're not small-time hens who rob a supermarket, a bookie, they're dangerous elements in society, and they're easily and happily dealt with by the police to create an illusion of action. However, the real issue of corruption that is related to large and serious crime is on the move, a good part can be found, for example, on the move from Tuškanc through the Cross to Pantovčak, so I suggest that as a tool to the head of the USKOK tax inspection and other services, bicycles, cameras and notebooks are purchased. Let them go for a ride on the move, film all the villas worth tens of millions of euros and let the Croatian society answer whether they were obtained fairly, paid fairly or obtained with the help of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105611	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105612	Dear colleague Baranovic, I agree with you. The problem in Croatian society is as great as you said big crime. Not chickening, not robbing a kiosk, it always will be, there are always, although even some Scandinavian countries have even jumped at it to reduce or regain consciousness to the least possible measure. When I was talking about fishermen then I was talking about fishermen, there are statutes in those statutes about all segments of society, then society as it seems to those. It was unimaginable that those who rule were used except that they had already been privileged to keep from mystifying the Middle Ages. But it was taken into account in every segment of society, including that fishermen do not have the right to raise the price. Let's go instead of these fishermen, let's say our merchant who works with prices whatever he wants, who sell us... who are never punished, who do not allow unions, who rule in fact who are states in the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So imagine how the prince of Dubrovnik would feel today when he saw the situation in Dubrovnik, what would he say? When they passed such rigorous laws, they took care so much that there would be no corruption, there would be no bribes. Today it's said like this, it doesn't matter it's a powerful verdict I respect the court but the citizens have chosen me. It's a matter of perception. Because we have talked here a hundred times in Parliament, we here with our own, parties with their decisions legalized corruption. It's simple, when they put a man who's accused and convicted and you put him as a party to be anything on the list, then you said my people were allowed just not to catch you or to convict you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105613	Third replica, respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105614	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you have spoken a lot about the history of an anti-corruption climate that reigned with us in the Middle Ages and instructions in doing so a number of cities and statutes that were brought into this. That makes Korčulani the most drastic. In the prince's court in Dubrovnik you listed but also what it says when you enter the prince's court forgets privately, take care exclusively of the public. Yeah, that's another fact, but here's how we have a situation in Dubrovnik today. But what I wanted to say about the Korčulan headship that Mr. Marko Polo went to China and you see although Korčula today is the territory of the Republic of Croatia in China, the measure of the head is still today. And after so many years of Korčula and Marco Polo going to Asia tea routes, etc., not drugs as they go today. You have a closer example, for example. The Republic of Serbia, which has just started negotiations with the EU, is an anti-corruption action called SABLJA, and by taking away property and selling out property, what we are talking about very shyly and trying to freeze property. Watch out, frozen just not to be taken away, God forbid, but only to be frozen, this is what Serbia spent once with anti-corruption action without any problems. Well, let's take a look around, and I think we could, but I don't think there's much interest in having it done that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105615	Replication response, esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105616	Comrade Grubisic, yes, imagine those commies in the Middle Ages that seized the property of those who sinned against the laws. Today they say you can't take away private property, private property is sacred. Especially the one that was stolen, especially the one that was earned in drug dealing, especially the one that was acquired in converted crime. What did we do? How many people are convicted, and we have a constitutional one, we have put an end to this crime, that is, anticrime. How much did we freeze the property? We're the only thing we've ever hated is morale. Our morale has been frozen, and I don't know how many degrees. And I don't know when it's gonna freeze. It's sad to see by the laws, by the statutes more, the city statutes, that we were in the Middle Ages organized, moral society, and that today everything that's fair, everything that has a head and a tail, everything that we morally mock.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105617	We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105618	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, someone mentioned the Scandinavians here, and since they've jumped corruption, the best show is the Finns in the case of PATRIA. So there is corruption in both France and Finland, both Sweden and Germany and Spain, Italy not to speak. However, someone mentioned these agencies, and I will say as most of these 187 agencies can probably be immediately abolished because many of them are used for impregnating, so it could save a few hundred million kunas, so it is likely that this National Council can be abolished immediately. What's this National Council doing? Controls and monitors the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, systematically monitors the occurrences of corruption submitted by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the Corruption Strategy, analyses the reports of the competent authorities, proposes measures to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the strategy, encourages and directs the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the state and other bodies, etc., etc. And you're really asking yourself what the council did about that? We have a lot of measures. I guess that's a lot of midwives, but a snotty kid. There are some good messages that have been sent, surveillance of the operation of the DORH, and that's apostrophe to the first place. Then the transparency of the work of local self-government, then the rights of whistlers, and the property cards of judges they keep refusing to disclose, and preventing corruption in football. I don't know who's watching our football at all, but good. Code of conduct of civil servants, etc. So, my opinion is that corruption in Croatia has the same if not more than three years ago, only that corruption went down the stairs. So, before the government and now from the government to public enterprises, to local self-government, to municipal services. I was just reading this morning it seems to me that in "The Evening" of the Croatian Forest they refused to make an offer, not to mention companies or companies, because it was not well or firmly imported. No matter what she was cheaper, six million kunas she was rejected. The basic problem in Croatia is clearly not this council, not this Assembly, but, in my opinion, DORH. And it is good that the first point is apostrophe or first point apostrophe of control over the work of the DORH. I follow one case, in Istria we call it the case Hipo Bank loan 20 million euros coloquially referred to as an aircraft where objects knowingly by the DORH have been pushed into oblivion and tomorrow the Croatian state will probably have to compensate for damage to the circus 20 million kuna and no one, individuals getting warnings or reproofs. Do I think that there could be conversion and privatisation in Croatia, someone calls it a historical robbery without the DORH? No, you wouldn't. Or setting thousands and thousands of acres to local officials without what is the case in Istria, without the DORH. Impossible, impossible, this other is in Istria worse than conversion. Now it's under way, and before I said it, I assigned 260 acres in the Rasha Valley. The chief boasted that she had fought for the assignment, so that it would turn out to be a real fight or to fight for 180 hectares to be given to their or her party mates. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The entire municipalities were transformed, the entire municipalities were privatized. Up on the 1300 and a few acres from the state. I fought against taking over tourist land, it stopped but this takeover of state agricultural land for kuna up to two kunas or two and a half kunas maximum, then urbanisation follows. It's all going with the help of the DORH, but it's clearly not possible to stop it. We have to influence that the conduct of the DORH change, that of them damn timing during or to say the smell, the feeling of what the government wants at a given moment it's simply devastating, self-destructive by the judiciary as such, whom the government wants, it destroys as well as corruption and smells of politics. Someone who doesn't, but that's not how gentlemen in the DORH can do it. I think the people in the DORH, mostly the headmaster when we're talking about receiving, autonomy, so he should pay twice as much for me as the president or president of the state. Why? Why not, like this we are now asking to ensure the status of our canadian pilots so that they can reach the apartment, etc. Because if they depend on how to pay for the sub-optimal rooms, we will simply lose those who simply guarantee to say the safety of this country. Where do kids from DORH usually get jobs? In local self-government. And then what do we have? We have a policy called "Yes Hand Meows." How many of our ministers got a job with, say, leading Croatian tycoons from Todorovic and beyond. When we talk about DORH and Istria, the people who were there eventually became the legal representatives of local self-government. In a year, these local self-government jobs get as much as they'd get as DORH's bosses in 20 years. Then it is clear that they will sail, literally sail on a sailboat with the mayors, not that they will be resented. Same thing with the police. Well, I didn't once speak for this pay phone, so you know, the whole drug-fighting department itself has fallen. Well, I'd keep my mouth shut, but every day my moms, dads, nonets, none. The pulse is literally infected, we talk about Ebola every day or I don't know what diseases we're not talking about. We've been dropped recently by the head of the general crime, I guess these guys see down there who work and the cops who suck, where, in which offices tell us why we shouldn't be dealing a little bit and making extra profits when no one touches them, they don't want to touch us either. And DORH has different criteria. and I am convinced that Mr. Bajic or Cvitan knows everything in the media how to finance in some parts, all know how to finance through these PR agencies but some people don't. And that's why I'm talking about that timing, and that's why I'm talking about that feeling of how the authorities like it, not to mention that smell. As far as they're concerned, they deal with booths. Well, my mother. And the fact that fifty officials in two, three mandates earns 2.3m euros in real estate, which in no one's money. So we have the Income Act, within two days you can see it all simply who, what, how, just came about. And then what we have is that because of someone's failure to do space simply stagnates. Well, then we have a situation that according to GDP, which seemed to be three, four, five years ago impossible, the Primorje-Gorski County is reaching the County of Istria. Concession, I am now being sued by a man who is in the County of Istria, specifically in Poreč chosen as a better bidder than one major Riviera, I would almost say the largest tourist company in the Republic of Croatia. Everyone in Poreč laughs, actually they pay for laughing, but he normally sues me. He donates a page to the government of 30 thousand kuna, asking me 35 thousand kuna with interest to compensate for what he's been doing. Customs, so I'm not talking about those planes, I'm not talking about the HYPO bank. Apparently, I don't know if it's true, so I was told that Mrs. Merkel was now that our president was in Berlin asking, so what are you doing with the HYPO Bank? I don't know if it's true, I don't know if it's true. The fact that the president, as my predecessor spoke, has brought Mrs. Balenovic back to life, should absolutely be welcomed. Mrs. Balenovic said that for 15 years in this country she was hungry, for 15 years no one wanted to help her. What she went through thanks to politics is for the movie. The president's removal of the bust of Tito will explain this in Istria on 30.3. at the assembly session of the County of Istria in connection with the statutes of the county. Corruption has destroyed us. Who will invest in Croatia, I say no one will invest. There has been no relevant investment in Istria in the last 10 years if we do not think that 4 years or 5 for 80 million euros from Hypo Bank was purchased from Dragoner, or Barbariga, then sold to the Russians and these sold it to some bankrupt Italian company. We see the strange ways of the Lord. To ask for a bribe of 500 thousand euros, I don't know if it's true, I don't want to say it either, or that it isn't, but I'd rather trust the List if it passed the lie detector than the others. Six hundred thousand euros of real change. From who? From Maria the Captain, the DORH people know it, they know it very well, only those who asked for it had the misfortune to have run into Brother Simon Perez of the current Israeli president of the country. Well, in the end, he said wait, gentlemen, that's not how we do it. And who they asked for Istrian heroin that killed her father, mother, three sisters in World War II or her mother, one in nine months of pregnancy alive, and two of her brothers were killed. 200 thousand euros. Some people are looking yesterday and they say they're begging me, they're begging me, shut up, don't talk about it. The villa for some re-use services, etc., is openly requested. If anyone would even try, then you have the next situation that local officials are going into the DORH, not on call, they're answering themselves, I don't know where else there's such a practice because they want it. Then I guess I'd like to have a nice cup of coffee, a fairy tale, talk about kids, work, plans, see how things stand, and be cynical together, determine a man who'll follow a case. 20 and I don't know what, 4, 5, 6 golfes. Why 26? Well, because it's important to influence the investor through one form of simple urbanization. Every day they call people, hungry people, barefoot people, decanted people, people who hired 5, 10, 15 people who are at the bottom today, they can't go forward, they can't go back. People with no future, children leaving, it doesn't matter where, in Canada, Australia, out of Croatia, Italy. And I don't know how to solve it. Normally, this was once resolved by a revolution, and no one today resents it and today some things can be resolved by the work of institutions, including the DORH or one other institute, to amend the Law on Elections and simply impose a commitment that all people must go to elections. And I agree with what my predecessors used to say where they're asking themselves how it's possible to run a city out of custody. How is that possible? How is that possible? It's simple for me, well, come on, no charges have been filed yet, still no, I don't know the power of judgments etc.. But I think that convicted persons, especially if they were to be banned, should I not know through some time-limit trials of one term of office to run for any function. This is what I think is nowhere but in Croatia, there is no such thing, but now, why people choose. If you have in one municipality of 2,000 souls a budget of 30 million, plus 20 or 30 million kunas have utility companies that depend on you, that's 50, 60 million kuna. In 10 years, 500 million kuna. You hired a hundred people. There are several hundred people still gravitating to you, so you've got everything bought and 30, 35, or 40% are coming out of the election, and normally there's nothing you can do about it. But no matter what, I'm glad we have this body, and I'm glad that there are all political parties here, I know I can't do much, but at least they give people a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105619	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you mentioned, among other things, that in order to combat corruption, we have the Income Tax Act in force. Yes, I agree with you, and I'd be more specific, so I'd like to point out that we have article 63. The income tax law which clearly states that, tax administration, tax authority, can and is able to determine the disproportionateity between the property and the income of any natural person who lives and who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So there is a possibility with the use of the OIB and, of course, with very high quality and good information support that we already possess and can be used. So in order to combat corruption, political will is needed because if political provisions are made that everything found to be disproportionate between the reception and the property situation of not certain and selected individuals but all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then this would result not only in the reduction of corruption in our society but in the eradication of the same. So I think that the tax administration should take every citizen because it is not a big deal by one click they can determine between receipts and assets, and the law allows them to control it from 2005 to today. So fighting corruption is possible but there is a political will to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105621	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105622	Dear colleagues, without political will, surely we cannot deal with corruption and nothing will simply change. You yourself mention the Income Act and state Article 63. In two days if there were a political and I don't know what will, all the mayors, mayors, mayors, parliamentary deputies, the minister can simply be X-rayed within 2 days of the county without any problems. It's about 50 people, that's no problem. It's not like you're pointing out a big deal. There just needs to be political will, but it doesn't want to be done because the one who should impose it is probably just as afraid of being found under that x-ray. But what's going on? It's driven by small craftsmen, driven by these so-called homeless people simply to give their souls to do business at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105623	Second replica, Reverend Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105624	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, you have therefore pointed out in your presentation that you know examples that certain judicial officials later received a job in essence with those they were to control. I agree with you that this is an extremely dangerous situation, it is comparable to when certain political officials later cross over to, say, private entities with whom they have done business on behalf of and on behalf of the state. Certainly, if you have any knowledge of it, I think we need to show that we don't just have to talk, but that we have to act. I am sure that from the very ranks of both the State's Attorney's Office and through the Ministry of Justice that they will be open to such situations in the future. I am convinced that you will have the support of the rest of us advocates interested in this subject, but I also stress for sure the Ministry of Justice and the people of the State's Attorney's Office as well as from the judiciary's ranks. Surely, if it is not well regulated, it will need to be resolved to avoid cases like this that certainly pose a very, very serious threat to corrupt behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105625	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105626	I've never reported or thought, but I'm going to speak openly and I'm going to speak very plainly and with names and last names and appearances. And in the DORH, they all know it, all of them know it, but their selectivity has just been sang in songs for tens of them. And why won't they? Because they too know that they can benefit from certain individuals. With someone in local self-government, a municipal company, state services, etc., they can hire their children, or the next day they will take over property-lawful business management for a municipality and for a city or for several municipalities, more cities, for the county, and in a year they will simply come to earn as much money as they would earn to simply work on functions paid for 12, 13 or 14 thousand kuna and sometimes they may need to be easily understood. I won't say they're afraid, but that sense of timing, that smell that, at some point, visions that political options persecute, it's been perfectly expressed in these Croatian spaces, and somewhere there's just nothing going on. I don't want to hurt anyone, but there can't be one criterion at work up here in Zagreb or in other parts of Croatia, and something else down in Istria. I assure you that the 1300s, and I don't know how many acres of which one large majority went to local officials in Istria, would not be possible without the DORH. We had a law in force that forbidded change or re-use or transfer of land, but despite all that, people were getting clauses, from whom, from the DORH, they signed up to 5, 10, 60 or I don't know how many acres and everything goes their course and nobody can do anything to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105627	The last line, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, if what you're saying about Istria is true, then we should all imagine each other deeply together. If what you said about Istria is true, then it can be called the mafia, the band between the State's Attorney's Office, local self-government, public enterprises, etc. If that's true. If what you said today in this High House is true, someone should answer in front of this High House, if that's true. Secondly, you were talking about a powerful verdict and a fact, you said there's probably no similar case for anyone with a power of judgment to run. So I also agree with you that there is no similar case in Europe, in democratic countries, but the HRT has made sure that it manipulates the Croatian public, so it found the case of Mayor Bordeaux. Why am I supposed to say that? Because they pulled the case of Alan... who was the mayor of Bordeaux, however, the man was sentenced in 2004 when he was the financial director of his party and sentenced to parole, but because of financial malfeasance in the party and was banned from doing any public duty for 14 months. So it has no touch point with Andro Vlahusic's candidacy. However, this information was well placed by HRT three days before the election, here you can see there is also a convicted mayor in Bordeux, not saying why. Andro Vlahusic was convicted of a powerful verdict because of abuse of office and authority and just the mayoral post. Alan... has passed his probation period, or 14 months has not been a public activity. So there's absolutely no such thing as a case. And then the question arises which criteria today rule in Croatia. Well, then you can... for both the mayor and all the other functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105629	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105630	No, what's possible in Croatia is that you can manage the cities of custody, I'll say once again, here are no investigations raised, pardoned are investigated, not the indictment proposals raised, let alone the indictment but it's simply nonsensical. And when we have a final verdict, I guess these people should be banned from taking part in any kind of run for office at least one term. I mean it myself. Do not exclude them from public life or apply Sharia law or standards spoken of by colleagues, I am talking about the ordinary law of the 13, 14 or 15th century period. I'm saying one more time, so when I talk about what's going on on in some parts that the DORH knows all that. And why am I saying that? So because space simply stagnates, because divisions are created that aren't recorded in our history. People who had nothing today become financial pillars of society. Well, even at the pay phone, I said what I did here in the Parliament, fighting the takeover of tourist land, so nobody did it. And now I'm supposed to shut up to my ex-collars who are just now in a situation that isn't enough for five or ten acres. Now they're looking for a table, 180 and more acres. Well, in history, it just wasn't recorded in our space. But those are the reasons why Istria is stagnating us. I claim that no relevant investment has occurred in the last five, six, seven years, nor will it occur so soon. And that there are no these investments from the state, the budget, the parafiscal funds, not only the Primorje-Gorski County, as far as gross-society products are concerned, but certainly much worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105631	On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the People's Party – the reformist will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105632	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is my colleague Vuksic from the early Middle Ages, and I would have started perhaps since 2000 when, in a way, in a legislative sense, our little organised fight against corruption, especially by setting up USKOK, by strengthening USKOK through amendments and additions to the law, by introducing and adopting anti-corruption strategies that I must admit at first were very formal. We brought anti-corruption strategies to order, and we did all the opposite of them. Let's just think of one prime minister who said, one example should be found in each county and hanged publicly to see and convince the public that we are fighting corruption. So many meetings of all the structures of government when it was necessary to discover who was hardware and who was software in corruption affairs. It was all a big pump with small results, there was a lot of noise and they were running under little mice. Today the situation is completely different. Many things have taken place in organisational terms, and this Council and this report shows how many measures are in place today in the fight against corruption. However, when you look at statistics, when you look at the reports of relevant institutions, international institutions that measure the level of corruption in countries, then it is seen that the number of these measures is not adequate to the perception created when it comes to Croatia and the state of corruption in our country. And that's what the problem is. So we can have even more detailed reports, even more precise, even more precise measures that we will invent, bring, apply but no shift. The corruption rate here in 10 years has not moved even 10 places, moved 8 places, and we should have jumped 30 places already, given the many measures we have taken in our country and finally started to apply. So there's something wrong, something's not right. The work invested is not responding to the result, and I think that this Council in some of the next sessions should be concerned about whether all these measures have results in reality and that is our recommendation from the club that the Council should take into account, that is, to analyse all these measures and to show concretely whether there are results, what measures have results, which measures do not have results. I'll just remind you how much it took to introduce a law on transparency of publishing financial reports especially at the state level, and then local communities, and then companies owned by the state. It took a long, long, long time. And now that you look at some public companies, when you look at how many contracts they've made, how many contracts they've published, how many public procurements they've made, then you see that there's very little data or that there's almost no data at all. Or maybe you know of some competitions that are run, but they're nowhere on the pages of these public companies. And that's the problem. So obviously there is still a mechanism to avoid legislation, how to avoid the rule. There were also words about the statutes of Croatian, historical statutes that had much better regulated things, or perhaps not regulated better, they had been stricter regulated but morale was much more envious and simple civilization had corrupted us. But I might use the term that in this country, both at national and local level, there are a lot of those who remind the Super Hick characters from Alan Ford who take away the poor to give the rich especially when it comes to donations that are less compared to previous years. But when public companies give 35 million donations to certain associations and by who knows what criteria, then obviously money, it is spent non-transparently and I think such donations when it comes to state money should be reduced to the least possible measure or if something is donated then these criteria should be absolutely transparent. When you have a body leader who can donate something to a certain amount without laying down any accounts when the sum of such body leaders comes to an amount plus/minus infinitely. So, in the end, I would just say that the fight against corruption in Croatia must be eternal fire. So it has to keep on burning and much stronger than it is today because all of these measures we are taking, which we are discussing every 6 months, have not shown the right results that Croatia would throw out at that level of countries with a small degree of corruption, such as some of the countries in the EU. Because I remind every investor who enters this country with great care analyzes everything. It analyses the degree of state bureaucracy, the efficiency of bureaucracy, in which it will be able to be protected in a legal sense but also sees the degree of corruption, especially in state and local authorities, given the likely obstacles it will have to invest or invest in this country. And that's why I think a more high-quality analysis of the measures that this council should prepare for the next report would in every sense help us, when we also adopt anti-corruption strategies and many laws, have a clearer picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105633	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105634	Dear colleagues, I think you have well noticed that the effort has been made, starting in 2000 on this side, and according to international research, and our Croatian transparency international speaks about Croatia's progress on this scale, so we have less corruption, but Croatia still has much imported corruption. We all know Hypo, we all know what happened to MOL, but few mentions in Croatia of the "DAIMLER" affair, I did it at several of our meetings not only here at the plenary session when I was able to speak but there is no answer. That is also what it says, in our cooperation with other countries, and that is what I am talking about in EU countries and even in Germany. In the media, we have had opportunities to read exactly how these affairs extend to foreign government officials who then whose governments do not respond to the demands of our repressive bodies. With all those contracts that we signed and that were here about home affairs, there was a lot of screaming when we were throwing things at each other, and for no reason was there a colleague and a colleague. Let us focus on being like a small country and that we can create a reputation regardless of the signed agreements only if we are principled in politics. And I don't think we should miss these things just like that and that at one political level we should see what's going on, why is it not meeting the demands of our repressive bodies when other foreigners are highly involved, or there are doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105635	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105636	Dear colleague Anticevic, you are right, at least when it comes to Hypo Bank, but also when it comes to the DaiMILLER affair. There was a situation that our judicial authorities were not responding to their demands. But I will also remind you that our bodies have not responded to the demands of other countries' judicial authorities. Let's just remember how long it's been waiting for the answers to this affair, just by our police and law enforcement. What we definitely need to do, we need to take a step, we need to get a little bit more attached. I don't even know how many of our people went to the International Anti-Corruption Academy. How many people we have here to train, connect and somehow establish a solid new network structure when it comes to fighting corruption. I don't have that data if we've sent anyone to that academy but we haven't seen any concrete results, which are the results when it comes to our people who are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105637	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105638	Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt, you said there was a lot of work to be done, and corruption doesn't matter, in fact, a lot of measures are being taken. I think it's just smoke curtains. You know how to do that. The Western world is being run by the police? You must know that even more than I do. And how do they cooperate with drug dealers? So every once in a while, there's a bigger amount of drugs to fall, and then the police point the cameras and they brag, and you see, we did it, and a hundred times more drugs are smuggled. It's smoke curtains. I agree with your thesis to remind you of today's comic book situation and Alan Ford and Superhik. However, the role of Superhik was assumed by the Croatian Parliament. Why? The Croatian Parliament has mutilated a robbery and this robbery is called an execution and on the basis of a single caste, you're very close, I'm not saying that you're doing it, being rich at the expense of the poor. It's given to the rich to take the poor. The debt of 200 to 500 kuna grows to 1000, 1500 to 2000 because the law firm that only stamps, in one of the letters that I got, you'll have the inconvenience, you'll have the threat, you'll have the inconvenience. Look out, it's a pure open threat. What are you gonna do? Wealth is given to the rich, and 15 million are given to you for their protégés. Why? Well, because they've taken over Holding, the executions. I mean, we're one society that, it's just a smoke screen, nothing seems, we're doing something on the surface but corruption is getting more and more and it's smarter this corruption, ours are far smarter, all doing it fine with contracts, everything's legal, everything's transparent, everything's under the law. Well, I say this one, and that's what we're going to suggest, our club is going to propose that we don't do that anymore. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Of course it won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105639	Wesna Skare-Ozbolt's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105640	Dear colleague, I don't think any of the measures taken here in the Assembly are smoke curtains. We may not make the best laws because we ourselves are often isolated from reality and are not aware of what our reality, Croatian reality looks like. That's why I would recommend that a little bit when it comes to the performance that not really one wrong picture, when you get a proposal to do it then obviously you owe some money, you have to pay them especially when it comes to television subscription and you obviously allude to it. You have to pay that 80 kuna if you watch TV. Someone is sending you this exercise, or they're sending you TV, so they're either gonna threaten you or send you a legal representative of Television. I'm not for any threats, we need to make such a system that everyone answers for their obligations, but also not to have any illegal large-scale wealth on human problems and troubles. And if we make such a model that we can provide and guarantee people that they won't have any inconvenience and create any further injustice, then we've done a job. But we haven't done it before, and that's why we've got this kind of anarchy on our hands, so we have accidents like this that happen to people to throw them out of their homes because of some small amounts. I'll just remind you, and I personally struggled to lift the interest rate. How many people were kicked out of the real estate, they were all silent because of several thousand kunas from some ancient 93 and 94, how many years ago were expelled until we abolished those interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105641	Time. Thank you, colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we support this report, we imitate the work of the council, the president of the council. You could say that the council works in silence, I won't say in silence, but certainly in silence. So he oversees and monitors professionally and responsibly. As far as I'm concerned, I think it might even be more visible and more public and encourage action and maybe react more often but this style and leadership of councils and councils I think he's actually found the best way to carry out his duties in accordance with the law, in accordance with the regulations, in accordance with the Constitution and to monitor and monitor as it is said. As for the phenomenon, of course, I will not only analyse the report except a few of the final proposals that I support because it is standard, but of course this is an opportunity to talk about this phenomenon of corruption as the worst crime and I agree with all those who claim that we do a lot but small results. And in every other sense, we have great laws, we have a great set of laws from choosing MPs, officials, preventing political party financing, campaigning and, of course, taking away property in the end as the most important messages to those who steal and who work for themselves but the situation in society is still bad, because the real and real convictions, the real true convictions don't really exist. There is no public interest from journalists to politicians in a wide range where there is no example of people who are either under investigation, or are being charged, or are being tried, or have already been convicted, so there are no convictions. And that is, of course, in those elite interests of those who should best represent society and who should be what the cream of Croatian society is called. Football officials are convicted but are immediately re-elected by different donors who have even admitted some acts that are of course criminal acts but are happily seen guests, those who have used state resources in different ways absolutely often and without public convictions, so here are union officials who are re-elected in spite of the charges, etc. And so on. Of course, I won't talk about names because this isn't a courtroom. This is a meeting hall. What seems to me to be very significant and very worrying lately is especially. When you look at it, here in the last three, four, five, six months, mostly almost every investigation initiated by the state's attorney's office, i.e. initiated by the USKOK is declared by political persecution in one way or another. So it's mostly referred to as political persecution. And I'm very surprised why the State's Attorney's Office, why USCODs are more often and very clearly and precisely not responding, do not react publicly, do not deny those who, of course, depend on what group they are working on, mostly political groups that defend and protect their own under quotes and, of course, disintegrate others wherever possible. And that calling for political persecution is very dangerous. The State's Attorney's Office should respond and say clearly and loudly that this is not about political persecution. Why doesn't it work, explain it. I am convinced that the State's Attorney's Office is working in accordance with the laws and the Constitution and that BIAK is working in accordance with the laws and with the Constitution, and when the policies at different levels come to assess that it is politically structured activities and not legally, not illegally structured activities, then it is a very bad message. And of course it encourages all those who do not think in any way condemn corruption or crime. So of course we do, I'm not going to talk about it today because I've talked about it countless times in the election, local elections where both those with investigations and indictments and judgments get and go smoothly. This seems to me, in fact, to be the biggest problem, and many people who have found themselves in such a situation are still very, very prominent citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with the conclusions of Mr. President-in-Office of the Council that only visible results, and these are final judgments and confiscation of illegally acquired assets actually lead to what we want and that is to reduce the negative perception of the public, among other things. But, as we can see from the everyday Croatian public or from the judicial verdicts, in some cases, they do not actually have any echo in the public and do not have a reduction in that perception in the public that should be the first to agree on the final judgments, because of the fact that there is a need to respect the presumption of innocence and everyone is indeed as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says innocent until a judicial verdict is proved to him. And in this regard, I think that the Croatian Parliament can, without being qualified as interference in the work of independent bodies, conclude that when it comes to investigations in corruption cases and investigations must be faster and must be finished either by pressing charges or by abandoning persecution. It would also be important because it's all rolling in the same round and you don't really know who's doing legal work anymore, who's doing illegal work. In that sense, of course, we need to change some laws. As far as politics is concerned, of course I have already mentioned there is an action which is known trend we will protect as much as possible, we will resort to others as much as possible, as possible, and wherever possible by the most severe and hard means possible. Here is the final, support and it would have been good if we could, of course it was such a practice in the work of the Council that we could actually discuss today a Council report, the work of the Council for the whole of 2014 but this is also given the rhythm, of course it is actually about the year. However, in these last 6 months of 2014, a lot has happened so that I suggest that we have in the future a calendar year as a template for the report on the work of the National Council to which we are of course supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105643	Thank you. We have a single replica reported, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105644	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with you that many who have committed some kind of offence, who have committed a financial offense, have committed to saying that they are being pursued politically. And it is one post-op, however, I agree with you that the State's Attorney's Office should also respond to such phenomena. Another thing when citizens choose a person who is either under investigation, or who is convicted, is just enough to say how much they believe in courts and talk about the morality of society. That's the two things. And before I talked about the work, I wasn't talking about not paying what needs to be paid, meaning either a TV subscription or a phone bill. I was talking about that if you owed 100 kunas and no one sent you a single note for seven years and if interest, with interest, has increased 600 kuna and if the lawyer put 1200 kunas on it, then it's 1800 kuna, it's a legal robbery. It's a clean robbery. It's like a robbery, road robbery, we've legalized it here. That's what I'm talking about. Probably like my colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt said with good faith. And another thing that, let's say, in the city of Zagreb, before Holding sent warnings at the minimum cost of several kunas and people paid nothing less to pay today. These jobs are now left to law offices to get rich at the expense of poor citizens. That still, I talked to people who did it before can Holding do it in the city of Zagreb. Why isn't he doing it? Well, because then some law firm wouldn't get rich. That's, I was talking about it and not that you shouldn't pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105645	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor. My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you for some peace so we can allow colleagues who speak to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105646	Yeah, to colleagues who talk to each other. About political persecution, so these things need to be cleared up, which seems to me to be a very important problem. If institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK work freely or freely, whether it is pressure by someone from the executive authority or perhaps from some other government, legislative. That's what we need to know. If this is about pressure and we should know that, if it's not about pressure, political pressure, then that hack has to stop because it's every time the pressure on the State's Attorney's Office and the BODGE when it's said it's about.... It is pressure, and of course the most pressured by politicians who give statements and interviews. Here it is again about political persecution, so that should be cleared up as well as in the work of the courts, whether the courts and judges are under pressure or not, and for that reason I think the judges should be very careful about what views they have in public, outside the courtroom. As far as the execution is concerned, I agree with you here, the elements of the robbery should be removed, but I also agree with my colleague, Scare-Ozbolt, all that must be paid for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105647	We are going back to the debate on the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. We're going to continue the debate in the counseling clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Draženko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105648	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105649	Wait a minute for your colleagues to settle down. May I have your attention, please? We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105650	Thank you. When we talk about this subject, we should say that corruption isn't just a legal concept, although I would say that's how we first see it. It has its own historical and psychological and economic, political and sociological and other contexts. As a matter of fact, we cannot agree on the very definition of that concept, but some of the definitions are undeniable. It is therefore essential here to point out that this is about corruption of any abuse of public authority in order to achieve private breakthroughs by a public service provider. The narrow definition would mark corruption as a procedure in which at least two persons are not allowed to exchange for the purpose of achieving their own certain breakthroughs, and would act on the harm of public interest, in breaching not only the legal but also the moral norm and thus violate the foundations of democratic development, the rule of law and the rule of law. This is broader than the definition of criminal law which essentially includes those offences that are prescribed by law, so those phenomena of corruption that are prescribed by law as such, such as abuse of positions and powers, illegal bargaining, taking bribes, giving bribes, trading influence. However, it is important here to point out that corruption is not only the realization of the substance of a corrupt crime, but we can talk about corruption and in a broader sense as a certain type of favoration and acceptance of a particular favor in which they are therefore damaged, in which there is damage to the people outside that circle, although there is not a very well-achieved crime, but we also have to point out that it represents a significant social danger. That danger, I would say, is hidden in that it threatens and this form endangers institutions, values of democracy, ethical values and justice as such. Corruption attacks the principle of rule of law by undermining the principle of equality of all before the law. From the equality of all people in general, thereby destroying the foundations of the rule of law. That's when it disappears, basically, trust in the state and its institutions. Citizens are no longer sure of the fulfillment of their Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, not only in Croatia, I would say exactly that fact that I was talking about violates trust in the institutions, and when we have those polls of public opinion, we can unfortunately see that trust in a large number of significant and important institutions falls. Corruption is therefore a disease that is very difficult to treat because of its roots and ability to change, and I would almost say impossible to eradicate. Effectively, some kind of operational repression of corruption when we talk about this corruption that is just as a corrupt crime is primarily the task of the body of justice and judicial persecution. It is up to the legislative body, the Parliament, of course, to prepare a normative framework, to adopt a strategy to combat corruption and to monitor the implementation of this strategy. This is why the National Council for the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy was set up. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: It therefore held 8 regular and 1 thematic sessions. We can see that most of the members of the National Council participated in the work. It is further stated that it has accepted 15 reports from individual holders of action plan measures and anti-corruption strategy. In particular, individual reports on the implementation of measures under the Action Plan, such as the report, which is important to point out, the State's Attorney's report, the Justice Department's responsibility report, the Report on the area of responsibility and other ministries. It can be concluded from those reports that these measures, therefore, that the measures provided for in this strategy have been actively implemented by the entities in charge. Here is another important element of the fight against corruption, which is the spread of public awareness of the harmfulness of corruption, which is also a measure envisaged by the strategy. Unfortunately, I would say that sometimes the impression is that citizens have no awareness of the danger of corruption. As if they are not aware that the illegal benefit that is therefore derived from corruption means the damage done to them, to the taxpayers. No matter what the damage may be at that time, they do not see it directly as their own. Sometimes citizens, unfortunately, don't realize it's their money. This report states that the measure has been implemented, which is true and what should be welcomed. But we should, especially at the SDP club, stress that further efforts are clearly needed in this area. As long as we have this Robin Hood mentality or if we use the term more appropriate to our neighborhoods and which is best characterized by that now almost folkally, let him steal it if he gave us in which way we do not view the robbery as a "right robbery" while we ourselves have the feeling that we are getting a piece of cake so far we cannot say that we can be satisfied with the implementation of this measure. As long as we see public money as something that's spontaneously being created or falling off, until we're all aware of the fact that we've earned that money ourselves and that whoever steals or embezzles that money is essentially robbing us and nobody else until then we have to say we insist on a more significant and better education on what corruption is and how much damage it is doing. Because in corruption, the dark figure is huge, everyone who finally gets caught with their fingers in a jam I'd say is a small tip of the iceberg. And that's exactly why raising the social awareness of corruption's harmfulness is important. Further to the report on the implementation of anti-corruption measures, reports in the area of responsibility of certain other entities responsible for the implementation of the action plan, the Defence Ministry, the Commission for the determination of conflicts of interest, the Ministry of Defence, the Home Affairs, the Police Directorate, the Police Administration. From these reports included in this report, I would say most importantly that the implementation of measures aimed at greater transparency of conduct, greater control opportunities and than competent and control inspection bodies should be taken by this measure leading to a better and more transparent implementation of public procurement. Why? I would say that the actions of the state authorities in the procedures concerning the exercise or approval of certain rights and areas of public procurement are, therefore, the most likely area for certain corruption behaviours. I'd say it's a field that's properly perceived as that field is the most divisive, to the greatest extent of such actions and events. The report also assessed that the measures provided for in this area are to a greater extent the implementation of which is supported and the relevant data. At the end of the report, the proposals and recommendations of the National Council shall also be made to the holders of the action plan in the Corruption Prevention Strategy. We at the SDP club would agree with the assessment that assumptions were created in the legislative framework for a more effective fight against corruption. They would also agree with the conclusion that citizens' perception of corruption in Croatian society points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption. When we talk about this perception, one may be subjective to the impressions that can be expressed from observation when students of high schools who visit the Assembly come here often notice that our country is consumed by corruption and such an impression has been given because lately a considerable number of high officials have been accused of corruption and part of it has been convicted. They see this as bad, but because they feel it is bad, it is essentially a very good thing because the report only finds visible results, hence the rightful verdict and the confiscation of the wrongly acquired benefits will lead to greater general prevention and then the decline of corruption, the fall in appearance and thus the process of corruption and the reduction of the negative perception of the public. It should also be agreed that all activities of the policyholder and the action plan should be strengthened. Finally, I would say once again that it is necessary to point out that there is a particular need for concern, and I would say a non-sharp relationship between a citizen's actions towards corruption and criminal acts of corruption. Therefore, efforts to combat corruption need to be further strengthened and even some new non-orthodox measures or measures that have proved effective in other countries as effective and have not yet been introduced into our corruption prevention system. In conclusion, I would say that this report shows good work by the council, that it is a good insight into the implementation of the measures envisaged by the strategy and will therefore support this report by the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105651	Thanks to the SDP club, but there's one replica. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Pandek, how many public procurement procedures have you been involved in, and do you have any experience in this work? Because when you talked about this corruption in public procurement that public procurement is one of the main centres of corruption, I don't know, you've been distracted by the mind that there's a Public Procurement Control Office and that here when the office's work reports often pointed out problems that in the Public Procurement Control Office, there's a lack of logic and irregularities, and that there's also such a problem that it doesn't turn out that public procurement is only for those institutions whether at local or state now whether there's any level of presence. So if there's an office that controls it, there's a possibility of a complaint. So it can be very well controlled, but I'm transferring it from what you think you're alluding to who's controlling. Whether there are these elements, whether there may be a bigger problem in that part than down there where absolutely no one escapes from such things happening, but there is a system, there is a system. So why is this Department of Public Procurement, does he do his job, does he control it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105653	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105654	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, if I had had the opportunity to participate in public procurement procedures, I would even have made certain proposals or conducted procurement tenders and I would have known the shortcomings in the law and I know that unfortunately if there was a will that certain procedures could be conducted and I would say not a good way. And only the commission has the ability to react therefore only when there is a complaint, when there is no appeal they essentially have little, little authority. And just when we had these public procurement laws and in the debate I hope that it will continue to be considered, there are opportunities to improve that law just to control those procedures when there is no formal appeal. If you know that there are some situations that should be further examined, I'm sure you'll report it, I think it's an area where we need to approach very intensively. So not only do we limit ourselves to things that are clear but because there is a dark figure I think we should very, very closely control even in cases I say there are no complaints and preventing such proceedings is very important because of the dark figure that exists in corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105655	Thank you very much. Please, honorary representative Bora Grubisic, exhibiting on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105656	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the National Council, which is called the Monitoring Council, so for monitoring the implementation, and in fact monitoring or observation is the concept, so follow-up, implementation of the Strategy to monitor or find out actually corruption works or activities in the Republic of Croatia in all areas of life, starting with sports and football, and here is the office for controlling public procurement, public procurement and everything else. What marks the actual assessment or state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is an assessment although it does not have to be a completely accurate decision, i.e. the Transparency International assessment where the Republic of Croatia is back 10 years away, ranging from year to year between 60th and 70th on the corruption table of all countries that are being monitored according to this method and on corruption in the country. Wherever we bury it in these areas, here I started with football, and on the other hand, you have reports and debates and the Council itself that are in some sense in order not to exaggerate but also a little bit and just a report and a confirmation of politics I would say both inadmissibleness and lack of firmness, a lack of firm attitude, a guard on what is already what someone said was a zero tolerance for corruption. Football would be worth starting with the lowest, so county football alliances and even lower clubs in county leagues, judicial organisations, setting up delegations, trials, taking more office in football and then receiving more prizes that then amount far more than the salaries of the President of the Republic of those officials in football. So one man is both the president of this and the president of that and the President of the Commission and delegated etc.. And when his incomes are summed up in football and we all know it in all the county organizations it's just like that to make those people. I will not speak names even if I can about names because I know them and receive daily messages of purchases or expensive revenues that are greater than even Mr. Governor of the Croatian National Bank. Is that corruption? Is corruption when someone from such a football structure drags their entire family and sets it up either friends or party friends into football organizations, adjusts their functions, positions and then draws out of it, of course, profits. What's it called? A reward, a fee, or I don't know what. So Mamic is not my main problem with Croatian football, it has been since the beginning of those primary county football alliances and beyond. And then the pyramid grows to the top. I hope I don't get sued by the Croatian Football Federation. The whistles. We all know that any whistler in the Republic of Croatia and I know a lot of them and we know them now who has become the adviser of the President of the Republic of Ms. Balenović. She's been fired and that resignation keeps standing in the INA, and there's no way that any structure in the INA can get her back to work. And not for years, but decades. That's how it could count. And not only was she not returned to work or were they not returned to work, I know one in Slavonski Brod whistle so who said what she said and it was about then the politically ruling structure, it was never returned to work, it was spit, it was publicly discredited, and one today she is a housewife in Slavonski Šamac, a housewife, a housewife, however you will and can't get a job anywhere. This status of whistler in the Republic of Croatia is not at all envious and no one wants to lose their job in this way, come as an unwanted person in the media and neither do I, and be dressed starting with private and family matters and beyond. That's how those of the kind of corruption that's called again, and that's political corruption of clientism, nepotism in which our agencies, our funds, offices, institutions, institutes, etc. are actually created. a in the organisation and ownership of the Republic of Croatia with 26 000 employees. Let's just look at that APIS agency, etc. where he finally came to me to say, I would not want to offend Minister Lalovac, it is said to me that it is finally a system that cannot stand this Croatian state or its taxpayers. So yesterday he said there will be a rationalisation where he can save only 2 billion kuna this year. What do you think happened when the Kukuriku coalition came to power, so now we would have saved 8 billion kunas and we would not have a problem with the budget deficit at all, nor would the European Union and the European Council and Parliament remind us of the budget deficit. They say it's frozen property, right here in the material says it's one of the elements of the anti-corruption struggle when it comes to not only the investigative but also the accused proposal, the frozen property, so we'll see what it is. So do we know how much for any of the frozen assets that the frozen Croatian state has to pay for the maintenance of frozen assets, how expensive it is. There's a much more efficient way. I know that there is no standoff in legislation, but I said in one line that some countries and neighborhoods here have a different view of corruption not by keeping until the process is over but by selling, selling property and money that is earned from that property goes into the state budget. It's kind of quiet, shy and slow with us. In Chinese people who are the most powerful economic force in the world, the face of corruption usually ends with a long-standing prison or with a headgear, according to counterpart Vuksic. I think shooting is the way to do it. In Malaysia with one rope, they solve all corruption, one rope. I don't mean to be so brutal here, but I have to say, there's hanging like a way to execute. So with one rope, you solve all the corruption in the country, even drug dealers or drug dealers. That's the most common reason for an execution in Malaysia or an Asian tiger, an economic tiger. So, of course, what someone here says is the definition of corruption is a harmful social phenomenon that actually harms society, the public, the public interests, etc. It's a nice definition, but here we are not moving by that definition below 60th place according to Transparency International reports, but here we are not going beyond 70th which I think for the Croatian state and for those statutes that were written in the Middle Ages or at the time of the Renaissance or I don't know when, mainly in FreeDar Dubrovnik, we don't deserve each other. Or we as a people have changed from those times that were then. What's the reason for corruption? I think that partytocracy is my opinion, no matter what others say, so partytocracy has actually brought out corruption. As long as that is the case and until we move definitely to a preferential vote for the election of MPs, then the Croatian Government will also not be rid of corruption. Because everyone who has been elected mayor, as mayor, as executive authority in the government state, has the possibility and all those who depend on him get any job, any other status, any employment of children, any public procurement jobs. So they're all people, a large number of people in the Croatian state are in charge of these officials. They're debtors. And then what do we have, an addiction to two so-called. Bipolarity, addiction to two party oligarchies that are included in coalitions, and clearly that then you can't make any political progress if you have in our county 100 people employed in Croatian highways at charge houses that were unemployed. And 100 people were hired through the party, through the party oligarchy. 100 people are employed in the state administration, county or I don't know, in the town of Brod, in the municipalities. So who hires it, so they hire those who are executives of power in the area. All these people, they're cutting the grass in the summer because the chief of the community gives him three months so he can cut the grass and that's a big deal for people who are really in such a bad shape. And of course, when the people are in such a difficult state, any service of this kind requires a vote in that direction. He won't give a voice to anyone who hasn't given him the job. He won't give a voice to anyone who hasn't done something to him. He helped solve a defensive or some kind of status. He won't give a voice to anyone who hasn't hired him in the Croatian highways at the checkout houses, etc. and a series of other things. I don't want to have and say a word to those people who need it, who need it to survive, but such a system clearly leads to corruption. So nepotism and clientelism are political corruption, which then continues to produce again in the election of a new elite that will continue. Here's how it happens, for example. When it comes to the shift of power, let's say in the county. Then all those leaders become referents, and the new executive power brings new leaders. There's no discharge from the service, he's just staying a reference, but the head is becoming new. And then we're not surprised that yesterday it was said that on one of the state services, one of the executives had 1.12 referents. It's a very interesting fact. So one commander commands 1.12, so one manager, one worker. Here's the situation today in Croatia. The agencies and that unfortunate agency that solved nine cases didn't solve it, but had nine cases, so it was attached to another agency. Of course it's about the Railway Market Regulatory Agency that we discussed here, she had nine cases, five unsolved, two solved, one not in charge or something. That's really funny, and her budget was 10 million kuna a year with nine employees, I think, 10 million kuna. And you have as many agencies as you want. Then the agency, then the council, then the institute, then the fund, and ask the god who doesn't have everything, and there's about 70 billion kuna, 70 billion kuna. Now let's go a little bit on the pages of this report. Here it is not, on page three it says that the ministries and offices that were in the period from July 15th there is no foreign ministry that has divided or allocated a million and 800 thousand kunas to various associations of civil, non-governmental, non-party, etc. Here's the other day we witnessed that a man who was born on a board of directors was also assigned to a civil society of 250,000 kunas, so the brother is the foreign minister's lady. So it's amazing that, here I said that clientelism and nepotism is the greatest enemy in fact and the greatest source of corruption. It's been a while. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105657	You have two replicas, you still have four minutes to speak. The first replica of the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, you spoke about football and corruption in football. It is not good to speak in general, because when you mention the word football, then you don't just talk about big clubs, you talk about those many amateur clubs that are all over Croatia and who have a lot of problems with what you've been saying especially if they are trying in every way very correct and fair to participate in the competition. But I ask the question, why are we talking about it here? Well, there are laws that prescribe it. It's just that no one respects the laws, no one enforces the laws. There's a problem. And then we dig up here and then we generalize things, so I wouldn't like to hear it generally said you singled out that one sport. I'm a fan of all sports, of course, probably you and most people, but anyway, it's not just football, it's all over the place, but it's just a non-implementation thing. But what I heard the most about was you mentioned rationalization in order to do what Minister Lalovac announced and actually hire by these various agencies or something else. And this is a strong rationalization, you've set quite the example. First, hundreds and thousands of people were employed, and now once after three and a half years, we're regaining consciousness, now we're doing a rationalization. Apparently only in Croatian waters are hundreds of new people. The Agriculture Payment Agency 190 and some new people. How many other agencies are there? It's a little bit hypocritical when it comes to rationalization. I think that's the secret story again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105659	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105660	Thank you very much. I'll start from the end, from the agencies. So, I am, you've actually confirmed what I said. But still, if the minister says there's room for two billion savings. I hope that's just the beginning, I know as well as you do how much you've hired. I mentioned that APIS unhappy, then the Agriculture Agency. Well, look, when I talk about the Agriculture Agency, they say she hasn't worked in three years because the head of that agency was sick or sick, I don't know. Well, couldn't someone else get hired like it's now hired, so it's going, something's moving forward. But aside from that. As far as football is concerned, I wasn't talking about those clubs that live or how some animals live, but about the structure of the county football alliances, the structure of the judicial branching, the delegates, the ones that, therefore, organize all that together. And look at the fees per player, per club. Well, clubs can't pay for that. Yeah, well, if that's what you're in, then you know exactly what I'm talking about. And as for those decisions, the minister, so it takes every good decision, I'm not so bad that I'm undoing and avoiding any minister's decision. This is a decision, if it's going to be implemented very quickly in terms of these rationalizations in agencies and if it's the beginning of a phenomenon where there's really going to be a real rationalisation, then we're going to have to welcome it, and now we won't be ashamed if people, if it can save 2 billion kunas. Well, that's good, I mean, I don't see why I'm doing this right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105661	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, I agree with what you said especially about football. That's what I'm all about. And here's what I'd like to remind you of, I'm not going to mention names, but probably if you follow football, you'll know good cases, so where are some employees or how you might call them officials, but certainly the activities in that area have been condemned by a first-degree verdict, therefore related to taking bribes. And right after that, at their levels, the organization, were re-elected and unanimously. What was this message to all the law enforcement, investigation into the independent institutions and in the final court that made the decision? What kind of message was that? A message of contempt and contempt. And that's what this is all about when we're discussing this. About the institutions that must be persecuted, which must actually be judged very often have no reputation because such a choice actually sends them a message here I'm going to paraphrase that famous song of messages like that hit a stronger maniac, right? So if we choose you again, we respect you no matter what the court says about your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105663	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105664	Dear colleagues, doesn't it seem to you that corruption has actually become the usual way of life in the Croatian state? And that little citizens don't even recognize the elements of corruption and corruption anymore as something that's harmful, but some of them have profited from it, so they say, so we didn't have us saying he was stealing but we've hired 100 of us, too. Now, when you're talking about choosing those football officials. So you have the same example, and here is the city of Dubrovnik because you have the rightful conviction of the former and present mayor, but the citizens are just showing and proving that corruption has become something that is normal and normal in Croatia and that it doesn't need to be judged too much, does it? And who's responsible for that? Well, it's these two party oligarchies that actually produced that kind of life. I've also talked about employment and status so I don't talk about children and solving some problems both in the building and in the permits and anything else. And they're dependent on these structures. And then when this guy does something, he says he helped me, he's not a bad guy, is he? That's the problem in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105665	Thank you very much. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105666	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleague Shakespeare of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've heard a lot more about corruption as a phenomenon in Croatian society than about this report that's in front of us today. As such, I think that it is fair and correct to show its work in these years, so from 1.07.2013 to 15.07.2014, and we can say that the National Council has done the work that was ahead of it and followed how and how it is implemented by the Strategy on combating corruption. We heard today in some statement that citizens are not aware of the corruption that is in Croatia, but as the debate goes on, we can conclude that citizens are very well aware of corruption, and that as a society on corruption, we are quite contradictory. So, if something bothers the citizens then corruption, and on the other hand, as we have now heard, despite the verdicts and despite the decisions of the citizens' courts, they continue to choose those that have been proven to have participated in corruption itself and then we wonder how to continue to fight corruption and whether corruption is or is not the evil of our society if I personally benefit from this corruption, then I do not experience corruption as something that is not good. Corruption is certainly something that has marked an independent Croatia over the past 24 years, and we cannot escape from it. Our corruption index isn't shrinking, we're always somewhere in a very high position. And we certainly don't have room for optimism. Looking at the aspect of this National Council report, we can say that corruption in Croatia lives in two ways. In the way of theory and in that way practice. As theorists, we have a strategy that is good, we have an Action Plan to contain strategies, we have carriers, we have deadlines and we control whether the carriers have implemented and done everything within certain deadlines to bring corruption down to a minimum and to come as a society as close as we can to zero what we seek at that zero degree of tolerance towards corruption. That theory is going well, but practice is something else, and we have to deal with it. The first mistake we made in the flowering of corruption was when we abolished the Law on the designation of origin of property. We gave a very clear and good message that this is not our priority at this point and that we do not need one such law. Another problem is the long-term processes of proving corruption itself. Citizens do not receive information in the short term and do not receive information that corruption in Croatian society is still not worth it. As regards the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, the question is what kind of message we give when, as a state to these same citizens through the budget, we take the money to reflect the unlawfully acquired assets to someone we have seized and taken, the procedures are ongoing and no one can say with certainty whether these proceedings will end positively or negatively. The procedures in most cases are impossible to determine for another reason, and that is the additional reason for corruption, these are very extensive laws that we make, laws that we interpret both in one way or another depending on who reads them and who interprets them that are in most cases difficult to implement and who really complicate the maximum of everything that is complicated to do. If the laws were clearer, if the laws were more understandable then those court decisions or arguments of court decisions would I assume have fewer grounds for appeal and for delaying these proceedings precisely in these cases of corrupt character. Often when we talk about corruption, the question arises whether it is repression or prevention? I would say freely at this time in Croatia first repression and parallel to the repression of prevention because of what I have said so far. One of the most likely culprits due to this high corruption rate in Croatia, I say it is the tax administration. As much as they tell me what's going on and guess what's going on, the only tax administration at this point has a high-quality and good tool in its hands to base the disproportionateness between assets and income on the fastest possible way to determine who was corrupt and how certain assets were acquired that do not correspond to the reported income. As long as the tax administration doesn't start doing its job as it should, and as long as it's not done in continuity, I'm afraid we won't get rid of corruption because it's still an offended opinion by the time I come to order, it's going to be a long time and we're going to give a message all the time and with a court ruling and with no action and the impunity that corruption is still a very rewarding activity that needs to be used at this point. Public administration ineffectiveness is also one of the good corruption polygons. If the public administration were to be more efficient, if the deadlines were shorter then we would reduce those who would be involved in corruption at all because corruption is happening in a large part now, and because we give someone something to achieve some of our rights that are guaranteed by law because the administration in Croatia is too slow, non-transparent, and I think that it is also one of our priorities. Finally, we cannot only talk about one kind of corruption, which is corruption in Croatia, but we still need to separate corruption and separate it into domestic corruption and import corruption. Europe criticises us because of the high degree of corruption, we are a people who are not worth believing in, we are people who are falling for bribes, we are a people who are not, a country that is not worth investing in, because corruption is extremely large and then there is a fundamental question about whether only we in Croatia are corrupt or yet one part of this corruption has arrived precisely from those countries that are calling us and who are attacking us that we are corrupt? I'll list just some DAIMLER we got what the amount is but we didn't get who was involved in corruption, neither Germany nor America wanted to cooperate with Croatia. HYPO Austria refused to cooperate, Patrija MOL Hungarians refused both cooperation and extradition. So, all of these EU members refused to cooperate with Croatia and Croatia was unfortunately never the one who encouraged and imposed itself as someone who wanted to investigate all of this which really stands until the end and renamed that name and last name who is corrupt. Raiffeisen savings credit cooperatives we talk about very much is the question of whether it's Croatian corruption or whether it's something else in view of everything that's going on right now. For the end of the whistles, to eradicate corruption, whistles are essential to us, we get information that the special Law on the protection of applicants of irregularities or whistles because of the good laws we have do not need to be based on the existing law whistles extremely well and quality can be protected and here yesterday we were witnesses of one discharge in one of the bootleggers in Split of workers who dared to say publicly about certain irregularities that exist in the company that no one has declared that man has been fired, there are no more existential incomes and we as a society are still theorizing that corruption should be prevented and when these things happen to us in front of our nose then we remain silent and we come to that contradiction with ourselves, so it is none of my business why I would be talking about corruption and we are spinning all the time in the circle. The strategy is good, the National Council as such is certainly a good body that monitors the implementation itself, but I think the National Council should also be the initiator of opening certain topical issues to inform, better informing the public and giving the public a stronger message that this National Council as a body of the Croatian Parliament really understands, not as we have heard today that sometimes we do not understand what is happening around us, we are all people, we live and act outside this Croatian Parliament, and that the National Council would, with the implementation of the strategy and action plan, give a very clear and good message that corruption can be detected, detected and that corruption in the Croatian Parliament first wants to be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105667	Thank you, too. The esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ma counterpart Tyrelli only about the Daimler case, if I understand correctly that Croatia has not worked hard enough, my opinion is that we have worked hard. And, of course, I don't have the information that you would assume, which we could get additionally, the information available, the public and the state's attorney's office, so that the information and information on those suspected of receiving bribes was requested. However, the fact is, there I agree with you that story has never been brought to an end. So what is necessary is the same way that the processes that are being opened, I have said this before in the debate when an investigation is launched, it must be completed and it must be known whether someone, whether to press charges, will not be brought up and that these proceedings will be brought before the courts as soon as possible. And equally in cases like this, it means open public one big story about one big pool of corrupt acts and it is never finished and it will always, what is worst then can always move for political purposes and for political reasons and that is the only thing of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105669	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105670	I thank my colleagues Kosor for the replica. Here we agree in that section, the information that citizens need, in my opinion, is exactly the final step. So if I took part in something that was sanctioned for me and what punishment I got for it. And that would only be at that point, so what we could safely say is that it will affect all those who want to continue to deal with corruption that they really don't because then they are aware of what their punishments are. This is how we do a little media follow-up when someone ends up in jail and then two, three days we read and hear about it, and then the bubble is released, the citizens realize that it's probably going to take forever and that here's nothing again. That politics will do it again because it is such thinking and thinking and that these individuals we have read about for 2 or 3 days will end again after a few months just maybe even better function than they were. So the public thus perceived the fight against corruption. And this part that you said for sure and these big, big processes that are, I think that all of us in Croatia deserve to be explored and that the Croatian public is really getting information and information because it's not about small money, there are millions, billions of kuna involved inside,... The euro, yes, the euro and I think it's one of the problems. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we need to get away from that here's every political arrest political persecution because it really doesn't make sense if it's a crime whether it's a politician or not, crime is a crime, and that's how we should treat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105671	Thank you very much. The Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boris Blažeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the very report of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, something has been said, it may have been more detailed, but we at the HNS can only say that it was done well, that it was a good job, that this job should be continued, intensified and that it is one body that is important. Important for monitoring the overall state and degree of corruption in Croatia. By the definition of Transparency International corruption is the abuse of entrusted powers for private benefit. According to the World Bank, their definition of corruption is abuse of public authority for private benefit and... has said that corruption is the deviant behaviour of public administration employees selected or not appointed in accordance with their official duties and is applied in order to obtain private wealth or the status of individuals of the family or associated groups of people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, we have a strategy to combat corruption brought by the Croatian Parliament defines corruption as a harmful social phenomenon that violates fundamental social values and as a historical, psychological, sociological, economic phenomenon. In the broadest sense, this is any abuse of public authority in order to achieve personal benefit. In a narrow sense, corruption can be defined as an act of illicit exchange between a public official and another person in order to achieve personal benefit. This is any act which, contrary to public interest, violates morals and legal norms and violates the foundations of the rule of law. Among the most important consequences of corruption, the loss of public trust in state authorities, a public institution, which is consequently negatively maintained on the economic development of society. We at the HNS Club feel that today is really an opportunity and that it is important to talk more about the very problem of corruption, corruption as a disease of society, as one evil from our liberal point of view. We are pleased that all the clubs that have spoken so far have made themselves very clear against corruption and have defined corruption as the evil that we all need to get rid of together. Namely, all the former countries so-called. The communist bloc suffered and suffered the severe consequences of corruption in various forms of robbery, privatisation, sometimes social or state-owned companies that occurred during the transition period and political turmoil from the early 1990s to today. All these countries suffer in development and economic stagnations, crises, all the consequences of looting and corrupting their actions in the democratic elections of elected authorities and their co-workers. Clearly, countries are not their own purpose, the state exists solely because of its citizens to ensure their safety, freedom and happiness, and corruption is evil. Just as philosopher Terry Eagleton claims that evil is humane, the fight against evil is even more important. Every corruption that is truly a community evil is unacceptable. Individuals, groups, associations, eventually the whole society reacts to them properly, condemning them. They join in the fight against it and impose orders on authorities to pass laws on the fight against the same corruption. Croatia, like most post-Communist transition countries, has also succumbed to the devastating and long-term unreasonable evil of corruption, with Croatia feeling an even more terrible impact of war and war profit. The greatest evil of one state, or its institutions, is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes to the surface of people and events and phenomena that symbolise quasi success, and it is about incompetent frauds and thieves, and devastating phenomena in society that promote the invaluability of the right way of life, systematic frequent hard personal education, or learning, honest work or fair entrepreneurship. Corruption is created and can only occur in state institutions and state-related enterprises. Corruption is unfortunately to survive in extreme cases and survive, forced to accept a number of individuals and private entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities, some of which is a terrible and common way of doing business. May 19th, '91. in the referendum, I think it is one of the most important, if not the most important day in the democratic history of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens have decided to want their democratically decorated state modelled by democratic states of highly developed Western Europe. In many of us there is still a vivid memory of the then feeling of pride, enthusiasm, happiness because of the estate of an independent state which, as individuals and individuals, we will arrange for sovereign citizens and citizens to live better and better as our own, desired state. It is still a vivid memory, it was the real desire of Croatian citizens and citizens, to live better, safer, freer, happier, in their country of equal individuals or individuals. We wanted equal initial positions, fair society, a fair state, true examples in society, from politicians, artists to athletes, entrepreneurs, scientists. With honorary exceptions, unfortunately we got opposite values and social events and patterns. The unusually long-standing Croatian society has been exposed to corruption which has often been known and legalized by provisional laws and therefore the consequences are more devastating and long-term, and the corrupt decision is always a long-term wrong decision, a decision which is the basis for corruption is far more destructive than the current benefit of that decision or direct damage to the decision on corruption. The statement "who is the mosque, the mosque" paraphrases the state in which we are unfortunately still today. Transition, war and war have brought us destructive corruption as the most negative phenomenon in society and whose consequences we all feel. To all of us who deal with any public work and the consequences and knowledge of the destruction of corruption imposes the responsibility of public fighting it everywhere, in every place and not only in principle when the reflectors are on us and the cameras, but always. Many of our political, economic, social powers are condemned or sentenced to indictees because of various forms of corruption and illegal wealth, but many are not yet. It is important that Croatia processes everything within as short a time as possible, all of which have been found guilty of war profit, crime in privatisation and corruption. It is important that these processes be completed as soon as possible, respecting the laws, human and civil rights of each suspect, but within as short a time as possible to turn a new, clean page of Croatia's development as possible. Croatia, which today and in the immediate future has a perfect opportunity to develop truly within the framework of EU membership in the welfare state, but not just prosperity in the economic sense, but a state of personal freedom for all its inhabitants. A country just, open, attractive to all its citizens and citizens, a country where we can all develop our talents and where we can all realize our ambitions. We have a real opportunity to create for ourselves a state where we will feel comfortable, safe, free, in which we will feel happy. It is a chance we should not miss, it is primarily our responsibility, us sitting in this House and our colleagues and colleagues from the government, politicians at all levels, but also all people who deal with any kind of public work and action, civil society and the media, and responsibility and all citizens. ... the corruption of a cleansed society will be hard to go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the recommendations of the National Council should be read again to the action plan's stakeholders in the Anti-Corruption Strategy. It is said to propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia to develop a new Anti-Corruption Strategy, to continue proactive approach to corruption, to propose corrective measures, to carry out activities to raise awareness of the existence of corruption, its causes and dangers. It can be further concluded that the legislative framework of constitutional changes through the adoption of amendments and the addition of existing laws regulating issues of public procurement, concessions, conflicts of interest, financing of political parties, the right to access information, the Criminal Law, the Criminal Procedure Act and judicial reform created assumptions for an effective fight against corruption. The perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society in all state bodies, politics, health care, higher education and sports points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption first seen in showing the strong political will of all authorities from local to national level. Only the visible results of a powerful conviction, the confiscation of the unlawful benefit will lead to a reduction in the negative perception of the public. In the fight against corruption, transparency is the most effective prevention of corruption, but with transparency it is necessary and the knowledge and responsibility of the conditions of recession, liquidity and unemployment growth and corruption risks, and it is necessary to strengthen all activities of all stakeholders of the strategy and action plan. And that is why we in the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats think we need all possible tools and help to combat evil corruption from police, or judicial proceedings through the education of public and civil servants at all levels to a strong public condemnation of any corrupt action. One of the tools is certainly the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which is practically in our parliamentary hands. The work of the National Council is our mirror. What in the final point shows how effective we have all been together as parliamentary representatives in our overall work, because less corruption in the country means that we have done something a little better than our predecessors. And the quality and success of our work is evident in what we left behind. And if the situation at the end of our term is at least a little better than it was at first we did a good job. And that's the only indicator of the quality of our work. If at the end of our term we can say that there is less corruption in Croatia, at least in one important part we have all succeeded together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105673	Thank you, Your Honor. Branko Hrg, the esteemed representative has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105674	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't expect today's esteemed colleague to have a debate on this agenda. Obviously you wrote it a few days ago, because today she couldn't be right here to that extent. You were talking about the deviant behavior of employees in the public administration. Well, it's really immoral today on behalf of the CNS to talk about it, when we know what's been going on these days, and it's immoral because it wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been shown and it wasn't by the public and the colleagues who were here and that the public hadn't put pressure on it. If it hadn't been for public pressure, so there wouldn't have been any of this, it wouldn't have been to say the forced resignations of the Minister of Culture, and today we're talking here, on behalf of the club today you're talking about the deviant behaviour of public employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105675	Replica response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Hrg, I must admit that I am terribly sorry that one of the most capable persons in the Croatian Government is the Minister of Culture, Mrs Andrea Zlatar Violić, who is one of the few people who really understands all segments of culture in Croatia. She resigned knowing she broke the rules. She resigned because fifty thousand kunas from those fifty thousand kunas were misrepresented and it was her act of moral relations against the work she was doing. I hope that this will be an example to all future offenders of such acts, and that, because of such violations of the laws, not theft, not some business crime, but because of the violation of the rules of false accounting, they will also, after such a decision, be one of the most qualified persons in the Croatian Government, resign all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105677	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105678	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I guess, I can see that this is the last debate after the Fridays left, so we're in peace discussing the point that's ahead of us. I will, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, immediately at the outset, say that we will, of course, support this report and the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for this period, from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. I myself participated in the work of this National Council, so I won't talk so much about what's written here in the materials, it's said a lot, and in the introduction, Mr. Shakespeare, the president of the National Council, said what was needed. But I'm actually going to look back at the debate and where we are when we talk about corruption, where we are today, and whether we're getting close to that declared zero degree of tolerance on corruption. Today, three and a half years after she entered the Kukuriku coalition into power, we can freely say that we are miles from zero tolerance to corruption than we were before they took power. I dare say that today in the EU accession process we would not close the Justice chapter, 23. Why? Many have already mentioned affairs, and I will mention the affairs of all those to be mentioned. But I am most concerned about the government's relationship, so the highest levels of government of the Republic of Croatia according to the powers of judgment, according to the relativisation of illegal actions. Well, one of the attempts at relativating illegal actions is the last case now spoken of in the replica by colleagues Hrg and colleagues Blažekovic. In fact, it would probably all go under the radar if our representatives, first of all our colleagues Goran Maric, had not spoken about the State Audit Report, said that in 2013 and 2014. etc. that the Ministry of Culture had some inexplicable financial expenditure in a way that was illegal. That same report was in February at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia missed it neatly and said it agrees with the report. They probably haven't noticed this illegal act. To make the matter worse, the report was audited last year in October, and already some portals have announced the illegal conduct of that time, up until the other day, Culture Minister Andreja Zlatar Violic. And then there's the relativization of illegal proceedings. So it's said that she didn't take it, she just took some money that she was returning, so it wasn't just her, so they borrowed that money from the state budget. So if that's how the Deputy Prime Minister or the Prime Minister can defend such behaviour, then let them rule out for all citizens that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia should not take credit in any bank, any one, but rather let him borrow from the state budget 50, 100, 150, 200, 300 thousand kuna and return without interest in one year, two days or when he can. And we can see that this has happened in some other ministries. Today, the Ministry of Agriculture can read, or we could read, a report of 318 thousand kunas, something similar. So that relativating illegal actions actually puts us in a position that anything is possible if you are in power and that anything is possible to defend until the moment until it becomes too much public pressure as it was in this case. So this is just about too much public pressure, which, of course, does not approve of such illegal acts. So that's about this affair. What about some other affairs we talked about on the National Council? Let's say the Minister of Health goes skiing with his official ski car. And then later he explains to us that he was actually there on the official trip, but regardless he paid some tens of thousands of kuna for the driver and for the car, etc. So if he was on a business trip, then there's no reason to pay back that money or to pay for a driver if it was an official trip. However, logic itself says that it is obvious that he was not on the official path but was on private and of course abused his position. You see, we're talking about the perception of corruption. In the Swedish Minister, I don't know what resolution now, in any case the Minister of the Government of the Swedish State bought something on the official card at a level of 10 euros because she was on an official trip, at which point she probably didn't have a card and paid it with her official card. And immediately after returning to Sweden, she paid that money into the state budget because she knew she had used the official card for private purposes and wanted to solve the problem immediately. It means to return immediately and make everything clear, etc. However, due to the ease of using the official card, the minister had to resign. So she resigned. And now to compare it to these cases of ours where it's tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of kunas where things are relativating and not resigning, but under public pressure I think it's enough to talk about the maturity of our society. We have been miles away since 2009, 2010, when we negotiated with the EU. We wouldn't have ended negotiations if we were the way we are today if we were in negotiations right now and it was Chapter 23. "Daimler Benz", "Patria", "HYPO ALPE ADIA", etc., etc. What about land-reuse affairs in Istria? We know the former minister left that position but we don't know what the epilogue is. If the owners before him couldn't turn this land into a building plot with all their efforts, how did he do it? What are the arguments here? Daimler Benz admits before the US court that he bribed Croatian officials to sign a contract to sign a contract to buy their vehicles. So they clearly say at which point they bribed Croatian officials, at the moment before they sign the contract, which is logical. It's logical that someone who wants to bribe someone in some business wants to bribe them to do something to benefit them. And DAIMLER has benefited if Croatia buys. And in 2003, this happened, regardless of what we were told by the HDZ that the HDZ might have something to do with it, in 2003 they signed a contract, or they were authorised to sign such a contract as SDP officials. What do you say to relativating powerful judgments? The HNS has worked hard, with the help of the versatile and public media service of HRT, to show that it is not a lonely case, that there is another mayor, Bordeaux, who is also legally convicted and is still mayor. However, they mix pears and apples, there is no such case in Europe, it can be very simple to check. So a person convicted of abuse of positions and powers, of course, should not be a candidate for serious political parties, parties that care about the fight against corruption, but I will draw the case of Alan Jupe, who was the financial director of the party who abused her, in the financing of that party that abused certain and powers and that gentleman at that time was not the mayor, so he was the financial director of his party, and was convicted in a way that he was suspended from public activity for 14 months and was not allowed to be a mayor or run for mayor. The newly elected mayor of Dubrovnik joined the election with a final verdict, a relatively binding decision by the Supreme Court, the party, primarily the HNS, and then the SDP support the rightful convicted person for abuse of office and authority. You will not find this in Europe, there is no such case in either the CDU or the CSU or the French parties in the MP or I do not know which, in English laborists or elsewhere in serious democracies such as is not possible, it is simply not possible and it is not happening. It is clear, therefore, that unfortunately the political elites that today run Croatia have a problem with the relationship to illegal actions and abuses of position and authority and of course what kind of message is being sent. So if they're allowed, then everyone else is allowed. Why should some other citizens not abuse positions less than mayoral or ministerial, for example, in some other institutions, etc. etc. which would be a problem for them and if they were rightly sentenced to continue to do their job. However, all those who have supported the candidacy forget that such persons cannot be employed in any such public institution. For example. You can't get employment in the City of Dubrovnik, you can't get a porter, you can't get a cleaning lady, you can't get an officer and you can't get a headmaster if you have a trial against yourself and if you're convicted. So you can't answer for a job in the institution, in the city specifically, but you can't be mayor because you're supported by SDP and HNS. Which paradox, it's a Croatian paradox amazing, absurd. So, it is quite clear that the only public pressure leads to the shift of those who are acting unlawfully, and here are the final examples ahead of us, we fear there will be more because this review report contains similar illegal practices and, of course, it is necessary to do much, much more, but above all, the most responsible ones are those who manage the Republic of Croatia today, this Kukuriku coalition which unfortunately does not put its relationship with corruption on the level to which it should be and it is only bad for Croatian society. Such that it is simply not good for the political hygiene of Croatian society because what is happening today, the way illegal actions and judicial judgments are relativated is simply something that should be concerned about all those who care about democracy, who care about a better democratic Croatian society. And once again, I conclude that we in HDZ will, of course, support this report, which is the sum of what the National Council has been doing, but by entering some specific details but we are concerned about this relationship and this relationship to corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105679	Thank you very much. We have a replica, one, two, three. The first replica and respected representative Borislav Kovacic. Here's a colleague of the Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105680	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I listened carefully to your presentation, your debate and good work agree with what you said especially in the part where you talked about abuse of position, so you also talked about some recent events. So I can accept your qualification that we're still as you said about miles away from zero tolerance rates. However, unfortunately, this I am sure you will understand our main problem is that we are still closer to this zero tolerance rate than in those years you have also quoted since 2007, 2008, etc. And that's a big problem for me, it seems to me to be our society. Well, and this public pressure when you were saying he is very welcome and we still need him, but I am here, and you mentioned Mr. Maric and credited him with the merits of revealing these events, and I am then replicating and I consider it a very positive position of the government, which is nevertheless not and must not interfere with what he has given me with full rights and responded to, but I think it is also one of the crucial changes in action first of all, here are the institutions. From here I draw this conclusion that the constant shifts have been made whether or not we can discuss it enough, and also this scale is not the only measure and criterion for it to be assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105681	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli,... We will not take away well, freedom of speech is always guaranteed in Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105682	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you wouldn't agree if we were closer because in 2008, '09. And '10. We didn't relativize things, and we didn't defend them indefensibly. So we're not. Those who were in power then let the ministry do their job and that's the fact. But when you speak this recent case of Mrs. Andree Zlatar Violic then you should know that she already made statements in February about this spending of money etc. and that it was obviously in the government without any criticism or real insight, actually, what was going on. Because if you borrow money from the state budget and return it the way it gossips to you, and it's an illegal store. And if, if you can see that in the government, if it is seen in the Government that it was spent the way it was spent and of course you can't defend it anymore, then, of course, it should have already been said, ma'am, we discharge you from the minister's duties because of such illegal behaviour. Now the second thing is whether there were still in some ministries as can be seen from the revision, speculation is in the Ministry of Agriculture something similar, etc., etc. But in any case we're not, we're not even close, I'd say we're much further and we won't be any closer until we've solved these big affairs that are still standing and hanging in the air. If Patria's verdicts were made in a Finnish who is really fighting corruption very strongly and we can say that it has the nearest zero rate and some decision has been made in Slovenia about Patria as far as I know it. Nothing happens in Croatia. Doesn't that worry too?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105683	Honorable representative Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105684	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Matušić, I agree with a large part of your exposure, however, I would like to warn you of perhaps one important moment. You have now mentioned 3.5 years in your debate and mentioned this government and today we are talking about a national strategy that is not and we are not implementing this Anti-Corruption Strategy, so 3.5 years but we are spending much, much more. We always fall for one of those same exams. It doesn't matter who's in power right now, it's important how we solve corruption and how we solve the evil that happens at that moment. Political parties, no matter who they are, make up people. You mentioned Zlatar Violic today, you mentioned the Minister of Agriculture. I remember the name Cobankovic, the name Polancec, the name Sanader, so that was three and a half years ago, and the fact is that it was also about certain things that were against both society and the damage of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I believe that, as parliamentarians, we must first have responsibility and then also have wisdom and seriousness to realize that corruption does not happen from one term to the next, so that, at the end of one term, it stops and starts over rather than that corruption is something that follows us in continuity and that it is extremely important that as parliamentary representatives, as the Croatian Parliament, we influence that institutions are spotless and at any moment doing their jobs and that corruption prevents whether they are left or right, whether they are right or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105685	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105686	Corruption should have nothing to do with the one in power. You said there wasn't, but unfortunately there is. Cases you mentioned before, as far as I know, have been processed. ... I don't know who will be prosecuted if, with the highest level of government, government vice president, etc., they say there's nothing there, there's nothing there, there's no crime. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, the DORH is investigating, yes, I agree that the DORH is investigating. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I also don't want to declare anyone responsible before it is proven by a powerful verdict. However, even when a powerful verdict proves abuse of position and authority, then we have a relativisation of those same. So in this case, unfortunately, it's important who's in power. You understand, that's what this is about. A powerful verdict to abuse the position of government. Well, such a person should no longer run for any position. ... That's what the law allows them to do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, the Law on Elections for the Croatian Parliament has made it impossible for those who have over 6 months of convictions, etc., so far it has been possible, but now we have disabled them and left that vacuum that we could also arrange at lower levels. If a person is convicted by power, he can't, and at the very least during his probationary period, at the very least until then. Therefore, it certainly should not matter who is in power, but unfortunately today it is important who is in power because you see what messages are being sent to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105687	Dear Representative Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105688	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Matušić, you said that we are miles away from fighting corruption today. I must say, unfortunately, you really underestimate our memory if you from the party that you are talking about. We have a fact of illegal conduct today. And compare this illegal act that's wrong, which needs to be sanctioned, and we see that it's sanctioned. You're comparing the Minister of Culture or the official departure to a car skiing with corruption at the time of your government. I won't speak for eight years, it's been 7 years for Sanader, where all of you sitting here with him or most of you sitting there. You held his bag. That's really not right. ... Well, it's not nice to laugh. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I must tell you that you truly underestimate our memory. And when you talk about these affairs and Patria and HYPO and the Mountains affair, it's all affairs that are known to have been pure corruption. It wasn't an illegal act. It was corruption. Patria was part of your minister. What you're saying goes back to 2003 if you knew why you didn't do it? And in the end, really, we really shouldn't talk about corruption in this house, especially you from your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105689	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105690	I don't know who you're holding the bag for, I know I didn't hold anybody, and whoever you're holding, I guess you know best. My colleague, I didn't compare Mrs. Zlatar to the cases of the last government. No, I didn't compare her to those cases at all, I just said what's going on today and how the verdicts and the illegal acts are relativized. The illegal conduct has been established by the State Audit, so you will not be prohibited from talking to us in the Parliament about the report of the review or the report of the National Council on the fight against corruption. ... Therefore, the Daimler affair is also related to the SDP government and the HNS government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2003, the contract was signed, and the money was given to sign the contract, so read a little of what Daimler said in his statement to the US court. Why don't we know that by now? We don't know. We've been looking, we've been looking for years. Why don't we know anything about these other affairs, we don't know why we don't know, we're asking the State's Attorney to tell us why they... How is it possible to care that in other countries they have been convicted of these particular cases? Condemned someone for bribery in Croatia, and in Croatia no one answers, in Finland answers. How is that possible? I mean, where's the logic? Either he's misjudged the court in Finland as much as I can believe, or someone's mistaken for good leads, which I think I need more faith in. Let the citizens do what Andrea Zlatar Violić did, give them that opportunity. Why take loans of 5, 6, 10% interest, why don't you take out the state budget 50, 150 thousand kuna like she did with her associates, and then why don't they treat everyone the same way. Why? Therefore, we are talking about corruption in general, it is clear all that variations of corruption can be seen every day in the conduct of this authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105691	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion, replica and reply to the replica. It is now up to the chairman of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, respected representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I thank all who participated in the debate on the work of the National Council, who supported the National Council's report and I would like to say a few sentences that Croatia has entered the European Union because it has done a good job relating to Chapter 23 where the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is the most responsible because Croatia has got the green light and ended the negotiations precisely in this field of fight against corruption. And for that reason, I also support Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, and also former Justice Minister Ms. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt and her proposal, which also corresponds with Mrs. Nancy Tyreli's proposal that the National Council organises one debate, one thematic session at which we will discuss the effects of all these measures that have been discussed and implemented through the Action Plan, to see that the degree of perception of corruption is not envied, to see that we need to discuss analytically on the National Council how these measures are and to what extent these measures have been taken and whether they have contributed to something and whether there is something to change, to suggest to the Government, the Assembly that it needs some other measures in order to prevent and combat corruption. We will do so at one of the first National Council meetings according to your proposal and organise such a thematic session that the National Council gives another boost, one proposal, to direct both the government and all other state bodies to strengthen the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105693	Thank you too, Mr. President of the National Council. At your presentation, he reported the replica to the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105694	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's colleague Shakespeare, there's still something to see and find out why it didn't happen. This is the fact that we have requested urgent amendments to the Pre-war settlement Act at the National Council. So a year ago there was a round table on a pre-fashion settlement where the great corruption of the law was determined. So the real experts have made it clear that it is a law that promotes corruption and that corruption is possible in a legitimate way. It was this law that allowed corruption in a legitimate way. And we asked at the National Council that as soon as possible the amendments to the articles of the laws that allowed it and even the representative of the ministry said and announced that it should be in the autumn of last year. Here to this day, we continue to act under this corrupt law and to this day we have not seen the amendment of this law before the Croatian Parliament and should in fact warn the Government that it is necessary to change and amend this law as soon as possible so that corruption does not take place legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-27-0.u105695	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am concluding the work of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. And before we part with all our fellow MPs and all my fellow MPs, I wish your families a happy Easter, I wish you a happy Easter coming holiday, to have a good time in the family circle, and we will schedule the next session by written means. Every good thing. Next, the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. The debate on the report is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. A year.". Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes, 96 votes in favour, 4 votes were abstentions and 2 votes against, the proposed conclusion was accepted, the proposed conclusion.
