ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given the latest developments on HRT and what we can read in the media, given the resignation of two journalists to discuss this topic I am looking for on behalf of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96577	Easy, easy. Now we've got more reports, now we're going in line. Sunčana Glavak, Branko Vukšić, Damir Kajin, Mile Horvat, Goran Beus, Zlatko Tušak, Josip Salapić. Seven clubs. At 12.45, enough? It is. We'll continue at 12.45.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96578	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] We've got a lot of work to do, so let's approach him. On behalf of the HDZ Club will be a respected representative of Suncana Glavak, please welcome to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Does democracy rest on freedom of expression? We'd all answer yes right now. However, is the sentence of a short procedure for a verbal delinquent being imposed on HRT? The director-in-chief of the HRT is obviously strictly holding his ideas to return the HRT glow to the 1970s and '80s as he said when he represented his program before he was elected director. Because of the verbal delinquent, two women will be sent to the road. One pointed to the failures made in the transfer of the President of the Republic's inauguration, and the other, in the opinion of the Ethics Commission, committed them. Nevertheless, we strongly condemn the notice of termination. We believe that the Croatian Parliament must take a stand on the announced resignations for the single mother of two children, for the woman before retirement because the parliament majority has chosen Goran Radman and given him the Pharaohic powers to do clearly what he wants. He then designed the internal regulations and codes of the HRT in such a way that he could fire anyone he wished to do what he apparently did. Journalists as public employees must be free to step up in public with all relevant responsibilities. In the current democracy of the director, that freedom exists. The messages sent to these resignations have political weight in the election year. We're not gonna close our eyes and we're not gonna say that's not the case. The message is to all employees – be careful what you do, be careful how you behave, if I do not wish to fire Elizabeth Gojan and Hloverka Novak-Srzić then you are all on the wind. The atmosphere of fear prevailed on Prisavlje. That's what we talked about a few weeks ago on the occasion of the HRT report. Inexperienced people have a treatment similar to those who were in the '80s when the principal was a high-ranking leader of the party at the time. Freedom of speech is an integral part of the General Declaration of Human Rights. Have we forgotten that, too? Croatia was of 180 countries 58 per freedom of the media last year. By doing this, if anyone cares, we'll certainly fall by a few places. If in a democratic social context the crucial role of journalists is then they must be able to discuss ideas, opinions, allow critical consideration not only to others what they must do and what they do but also to themselves within their profession. In this way, punishing a person is like punishing a whistler because he's lecturing someone. Is that moral? When it comes to morale around these two journalists, then I will ask why no one has called for ethics or a violation of the code of ethics when that same director damaged the reputation of HRT when it was proven to have been in conflict of interest, when it was still not known what it was, where and in what way it ended and whether the money from the hotel he bought since the party? We never found out the epilogue. So we can put it in one context and another. If we're talking about ethics, then she has to be worth everything. If we're talking about an ethical code, then he must have a name and a last name and be and have sanctions equal for everyone. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia says, the sentence is very short and very clear: "No censorship is allowed." We could ask if this is the way the messages are sent first to autocensorship, and then I'll think about your destiny. It's inadmissible that this is the way to piss off the press. They need to be given to work, they need to be given research, they need to have critical insights, and they need to be critical of themselves. Cancellation is certainly not the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96580	Branko Vuksic will speak on behalf of the Independent Leftists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96581	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Ethics are certainly lost somewhere on Prisavlje and will gradually disappear at all. And he began to lose himself the moment the head director of HRT Mr. Goran Radman said if they found me in a conflict of interest, then I'd resign. A man who is in such an important position, I think, as soon as the Parliament and the Government are excluded, right behind the governor of the CNB who doesn't hold his word then morals and ethics are asked. And since then, there have been other rules on HRT. Mr. Goran Radman has introduced rules for himself and rules for others. Yeah, the HRT's trying to control intimidation. You shouldn't forget about Mrs. Kristo who also got fired just to get the principal to show off his muscles. Just because Mrs. Kristo was with whom I was ideologically and secularly age, she was not allowed to be fired because she had expressed her opinion of the director. It seems to me that both Ms. Elizabeth Gojan and Mrs. Hlorka Novak-Svrezic will receive or be fired as announced only because of what they think and what they express their opinion. It's punishment for verbal delinquency. Here they refer to an ethical code written by Goran Radman's model. If when the rules were broken, when the rules were broken, let's say when it was established that Mrs. Hlorka Novak-Srzic was working with Nova TV as an editor of HRT, then the investigation was swept under the floor, under the carpet, then it wasn't discussed, now that she's talking, she needs to be fired. I'm against firing. I'm not for HRT to be a social institution either, so those who are retired can't get fired if they break the rules, they should get fired, but the two of them haven't broken the rules and can't get fired. It is not only the issue of Croatian ethics, the problem is that chaos is created, big, big chaos is created on Croatian television. The editorial structure, model or organization is designed so you no longer know who's to blame for what. That editorial structure, the organization was just created by Mr. Goran Radman who mixed pears and apples. As people often say, did anyone ever go to a journalist talk about a commercial television programme like Croatian journalists say about HRT's programme without knowing the difference between public television and commercial television. The difference is drastic and the difference is big. Croatian journalists also have the right to discuss the programme and what is happening on HRT. Their acts are actually acts against freedom of speech, acts against freedom in general and acts that obey those who work on HRT. Unfortunately, and those messages coming from journalists, the editor from HRT, did not come well, but it was just one criticism that did not reach for the cancellation, but a criticism that in order to achieve the best of the program, unfortunately the over-emergence began and they began to take positions for power that would come after this authority and it was horrifying. And what happened in connection with the transfer of inauguration is precisely the result of the redistribution on HRT, as I said in the last debate in the blue salon, is already sharing functions that will look like HRT once it's taken over by another government, the right government is assumed. And that's terrible. In this regard, the biggest culprit is the director of HRT who should have done everything to stay and the director when the other government comes, to make such a television in which both left and right will say it is a good objective television.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96582	Thank you very much. Time's up. On behalf of the Independent Representatives, Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96583	Gentlemen, vice president that if someone was saying that HRT is the best Croatian television regardless of all disputes with it, then I said so. But there's only one thing I can say about this case, not Stalinism or HRT. I have the impression that there's about a policy in place for one of mine, if one of yours has to go. Why would you fire Mrs. Gojan in the first place? Why would you fire Mrs. Hlovci? Well, work dispute, so we're all aware in this country is going to get one, and they're going to get another. And I doubt that HRT can succeed in that work dispute. Mrs. Hloverka may have time-consuming HDZ, but she was also to say maximum tolerance to the so-called so-called. left editors. And it can't be challenged by Mrs. Hlovorki. It seems she was led by one policy of professionalism because she took along and trusted me to say, or a chance to those best she thought she was. And she was one of the most remarkable leaders on HRT. Whether we like it or not, it's either me or you don't care. HRT, for example, was particularly fond of the former president in this election, and it did not bother anyone. So then a man asks himself why shifts? For God's sake, I don't know because of some god-awful TV gaps here, Mrs. Gojan, during the inauguration. I have to admit, I haven't even seen that inauguration. I'd be happier if our presidents, the president of the state, the Prime Minister didn't do this farce about their own meeting, it's simply that happening in this country isn't fair to the citizens of this country. It's theirs to cooperate, not to frame each other. They acted as if they were presidents of the warring parties, not the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96584	So where did you guys go from television to the Prime Minister and the President's relationship? Well, we're not going to talk about everything right now. If you haven't watched the transmission, talk about it, but don't turn away from the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96585	Yeah, but I'm following this, and I'm just trying to communicate the atmosphere. an event, an experience of our citizens. [[I know, but it's not a Parliament place where there's no order to talk about anything.]] And only two, three sentences left. Croatian broadcasting is an important institution to privatise it. So that anyone would just play with that TV. There's no right to that either, Mr. Radman. What I dare say is that two steps back from what was and back in the late '80s. It may even be below the standards of those late '90s. And he's right, Mr. Vuksic, who says that because of her cooperation with TV, New Mrs. Hloverka, she should not have left the television, she should have been kicked off the television. But what's happening today is just one chaos that can't be allowed. Why? Because these messages only produce one fear among employees, and that is the worst part in the context of the fact that this is an election year. One word if you don't stay away from us and then we'll shut you up. That is also the kind of policy that cannot be conducted on the basis of the quotes "Radman's Croatian Radio Television".".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96586	In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96587	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The announcement of the cancellation of the employment contract for two Croatian journalists' broadcasters in this case, Ms. Novak Srzic and Mrs. Gojan, do not have any footholds in the professional, or legal criteria on which the director would have the basis to do so. For this reason, we, as representatives and representatives of the Parliament, are obliged to warn the director and directorate to engage in a measure to limit freedom of speech and freedom of comment on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV. And it is dangerous, it is the opposite of what Croatian broadcasting exists for and it is contrary to the programming obligations for which this Assembly is also responsible. And it is our job to warn the public and warn the director and the principal that such a decision, unfounded and unwarranted in this case, cannot and must not be made. Unfortunately, the decision has its predecessor, which is the decision of the programme council, which has also succumbed to a certain type of criticism heard by one of these journalists, and this is Mrs Gojan, who has made a very negative and unnecessary decision for the vast majority of the members of the programme council when Mrs Gojan is on Wednesday and when, on Wednesday, the work of journalists or journalists in certain circumstances. Unfortunately, all two who were elected to the programme council were opposed to such approaches because the approach was also based on the campaign. And the campaign went beyond HRT, so it was transferred to HRT, and there were some who were supposed to be victims today. So those who await the future power set out to prepare the ground for future power. And now instead of the director warning in the internal rules how it is handled under such circumstances and how journalists should behave their function he catches the criteria let's both go. This, of course, will not achieve what it wants and will only result in the freedom that journalists must have and which he is obliged to defend. And we are also obliged to defend the freedom of journalists on Croatian radio and anywhere else and at the same time to warn every party here and those who are in power and those who are in opposition and may be in power that campaigns or preparatory campaigns in anticipation who will come to power and organize by hallways now you will see when tomorrow ours come to power, this kind of threat is absolutely unacceptable for any kind of professional collective, absolutely unacceptable. And regardless of the kind of knowledge that we have which some of these actors have been involved in today's discussion, the SDSS Club is opposed to continuing the cancellation process and asking the director and the principal to suspend the procedure and prevent the measure of freedom of speech and there is, therefore, another way in accordance with the powers of the directorship, in accordance with internal regulations to ensure professional communication within the house. But as long as we are here in the Parliament, then for the sake of interest, our interests, it is very important to point out that the parties should send a clear message that no one should run any campaign within the house but that a professional campaign must be conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96588	Thank you. In the name of the HNS Club, the respected Goran Beus Richembergh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96589	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the club of the HNS Liberal Democrats, we intend not to diminish the right of the head of the HRT to implement the regulations that are in force, which have been adopted, which are legal, legitimate, especially in the process of restructuring the house, which is a public task for the Croatian Ministry. However, as in the case of restructuring, it started by narrowing down space to create a programme from a regional level, not saving and reorganising the mastodon part of the HRT that makes non-creatives, and in this particular case, we believe that the threat of termination is, or announced, two journalists, editors, so those who create, who creatively create the program as core business of HRT, a luxury which HRT cannot afford. At this time when the criteria for who works or who stays at work, should be who works and who advocates at work, introduce punishment for someone's free opinion as a new criterion, and for those who meet, it was like one or the other part of the audience or not, all criteria for the standard of creating newspaper forms, emissions, which create the most visible emissions in relation to competition, are extremely incomprehensible and inadmissible. We have a situation that, in an information programme or in a famous IMS, a part of people did not want to work on the concept of a new diary and that this whole concept depends actually on co-workers on the side. How is it possible that there are people who are paid for this job, who, in general and without any difficulty, refuse to work, and those who work, who want to work, are fired. It cannot and must not be in normal business systems. So in this sense, we believe that if there has been an infringement of the internal rules and even an ethical code, there is certainly a whole series of other, milder measures that could have been expressed by this which is draconian, drastic and in the 21st century definitely unacceptable because in the last decades of Rigid Communism, the unwritten rule that political rivals move from politics, but you don't dare take bread out of their hands. That minimum of respect for human dignity was not violated even then, it is not right to break today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96590	On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, a colleague, Zlatko Tušak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96591	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Clearly, when it comes to HRT, then this House needs to talk, especially when it comes to the intention of firing two journalists because of how it leaked to the public did it damage HRT with their statements. Does this move by the director of Mr. Radman not do any damage to HRT? I think yes, because HRT is not only the director's television that he can do so, and beyond that, the consequences can be very large, and this is a question of introducing fear, and when there is fear, then there are mistakes in professional work, and when there are mistakes, then there are mistakes and the reputation of such a public house can be greatly broken. In the end, HRT is a public institution. On certain comments, some journalists' appearances are being given to the public by the public. I didn't look at the inauguration, and I can't be a judge within what's been said, but when it comes to this way of quitting to get some balance between it and saying here 1:1, it's going to get this fired, that's a clear message of the introduction of fear. As Croatian Labourists against it we will always be and we will be the statements that have been made here in this Croatian Assembly in a way with the broom will be moved because we think Croatian journalists must work professionally on their part of the job. Clearly, even as professionals can sometimes make mistakes and they can be robbed of a mistake, but if it is common and if it is common, then the procedure that should be followed is clearly known. That's why we're telling HRT's director that it's best to have his intention sent to the unions to read about the cancellations withdrawn, withdraw in the interest of journalism, independent journalism, so that the public word about something that journalists can certainly order and say, and the question of damage to HRT will be precisely in this if these two journalists get fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96592	The last club is the HDSSB club and Mr. Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96593	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. It is a public service for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for those who regularly have to pay a subscription every month for the functioning and operation of television, while unlike other televisions that broadcast the solemn inauguration of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic on the same day. We have not met with such unprofessionalism and with anyone's right to publicize his personal position at public service. Each of us, each of Croatia's employees, political parties, should have put his personal position in the elections by voting for one candidate or another. It's everyone's constitutional and democratic right and nobody should have entered it. I don't think it's a matter of overdoing the personnel on Croatian radio. I would rather be free to say that it is about shoeing people who think differently, who do not support the current policy of the director of Croatian Radio Television, or give themselves the right to be trampled on by professional work. I will also give myself the right to have Mrs. Hloverka Novak-Srzic do professional work and that she has done her job well so far. Someone doesn't have to agree with me, someone can. And Mrs. Gojan, too. She led the inauguration program so that her personal, biased attitude gave her the right to say it on public television. You're like a pro who's got a long-time internship on TV who shouldn't have allowed it, but she's allowed it. I'd say it's the responsibility of the editor who lied to the team who will be leading the president's solemn oath that day. Because however anyone thinks the president was elected by Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, have the right to choose whom they want, and television was supposed to broadcast that solemn day in a way that everyone gets credible information. It is still the day when all of us sitting here and all of us who are going to work tomorrow should recognise the legitimate electoral right and that is President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's choice as president of the Republic of Croatia. And in order for us not to settle down here in the Croatian Parliament as lawyers either Mrs. Novak Srzić, whether Mrs. Elizabeth Gojan thinks we have another mechanism, which is a mechanism for one who gives himself the right to have Croatian television become a jukebox of someone's wishes, so that he can allow himself from today until tomorrow to do what he wants and have one director of television live on anyone's life fate. We need to relieve him of our duties and give him the right to someone else to pay for Croatian broadcasting, service of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have to pay their subscriptions, some of them are under heavy tasks because of poverty and they have nothing else to do but sit in their homes and watch television. We are the body that Mr. Radman has chosen, and we are the same body that we should not invite him to withdraw the cancellations he sent to the union for obvious, but to relieve him of those duties and to give the right to someone else to conduct Croatian television in this time on the principles of impartiality and professionalism. What will happen after the election, which the government will lie about TV, which the government will support this or that should be less important. It's more important that someone's life's fate depends on someone's will. If someone in difficult times was still doing their job, and all these journalists have their families and are often trampled on by these or those structures that can't think with their own head the way they want, and they have something to say, too, because they've been educated and prepared for what they're doing. We must not allow this luxury to end today on breaks of 5 minutes where we will all be surprised that someone can afford to fire two professionals on Croatian television with more or less personal aspects to one or the other, it is now a matter of personal will. But what we can't let our colleagues and fellow MPs do, we're the ones who choose these people. This is the Croatian Parliament, the highest body of government, representative body of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. These same citizens have to pay unlike other televisions that have better maybe programmes than this subscription every month, they're on top, they're arguing with the same TV. After this, we don't need to tell empty stories here, but to start Mr. Radman's shift mechanism and then everything else will come in itself. Everyone has to do their job freely in this country that they didn't fight for, and they don't have the right to slap people and shoes in a way that people express their personal will. I hope that this will not only remain in good words, but sometimes with good words we should go on to concrete things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u96594	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104279	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our work. We will discuss - A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013 The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the report will be explained by Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Marijan Cesarik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104280	Thank you very much. So, I warmly welcome you all, I thank you and here, as already said in the introduction today, we will talk about the draft report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2013. So it's one of the regular reports. Today is the 2013 report. The report contains pooled data for 2013 and shows in full and in detail the state of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. The report also contains epidemiological data on drug abuse, as well as an overview of activities in the field of drug abuse, prevention, treatment of addiction carried out by relevant ministries, i.e. bodies, counties, associations and treatment communities during 2013. According to the information shown, all resolution ministries have actively implemented measures of national strategy and action plan, and have achieved satisfactory results with existing, but not always sufficient resources, particularly in strengthening partnership cooperation among all measure holders. Significant steps have been taken to reduce the incidence of drug abuse and drug addiction through an integrated approach and have also been made to develop new concepts of prevention of addiction and availability of disease and addiction programmes. The total specific public expenditure per group of activities in the area of drug abuse in the state and county budgets, as well as the financial plans of public authorities and civil society organisations in 2013 amounted to 117 million 917521 kuna, a reduction of 5.2% compared to the previous year. When we distribute that amount by program activities, we can conclude that 63% is spent on treatment activities, 26.7% on prevention programmes, and on programmes reduction of the damage 6.3% and 3.2% on social reintegration and 0.2% on the criminal-repressive system. In 2013, a total of 7858 people were treated in the healthcare system, which is insignificant, so for only 3 more people than for the earlier year when 7855 were treated. The proportion of opiate addicts in the total number of patients treated is similar to previous years and is 80.4% and 6315, respectively. The proportion of non-opiotic addicts is 19.6% or 1543 people. According to the main asset in opiate addicts, heroin addiction is about 6029 people or 95.5% of all opiate addicts, while opiate addicts are dominated by cannabis addiction. They're 1047 people, or 67.8%. Epidemiological data indicate that the number of persons treated as healthcare is relatively stable. In 2013, 2683 criminal offences were reported, while 7295 offences were reported in 2012 as referred to in Article 173 of the Old Penal Code. However, if an item 1 is excluded, ownership that is no longer covered by the provisions of criminal law, there are 2106 crimes of drug abuse, which means an increase of 27.4%. In 2013, 5663 violations were reported to be 112.6% more than in 2012 when they were recorded in 2594. In 2013, the total number of drug seizures continued to grow. In total, 7073 were seized by all types of drugs, i.e. 10.8 compared to the previous year. A significant part of the activities focused on organising different educations with the aim of raising the level of knowledge of entities involved in the implementation of the programme on new trends in the field of drug abuse, but also on ensuring the quality of the prevention and treatment programme in line with EU standards. A significant step has been made in accepting strategic thinking and approach in creating an answer to the problem of addiction. A number of significant projects have been implemented, or are under way, to highlight the adoption of standardised guidelines for the field of treatment, to accept the concept of quality standards as well as criteria for funding programmes and projects implemented by associations and to provide targeted education for a network of professionals and experts. Also with the aim of creating and implementing a drug policy based on scientific evidence, a number of studies have been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104281	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the report will be submitted by the chairman of the committee of colleagues, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104282	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 53rd session of the Committee, the Health and Social Policy Committee discussed the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and discussed it in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee members in the debate assessed that the report in a comprehensive and detailed way shows the unification of epidemiological data on persons treated for drug abuse and analysis of the situation and the review of activities. The adoption of standardised guidelines for the area of treatment has been praised and the importance of prevention, integrated approach and coordination of resolution ministries, existing resources and measure holders in the overall system of drug abuse prevention has been highlighted. The emergence of new trends and consumption of new psychoactive substances characterised by high growth dynamics is highlighted. In this regard, the need to define the concept of new drugs is stressed, which is why amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse and correction of guidelines for the pharmacotherapy of opiate addicts are under way. Negative health risks and consequences that follow the consumption of new drugs impose the need and responsibility of the profession to adapt preventive and educational activities and treatments to a new type of addiction especially among young school age. As a contribution, it recognises the role of health care in schools and the enhanced coordination of resolution ministries, which is expected positive results and opinions from committee members in the next period. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the National Strategy Implementation Report and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104283	Does the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Left-wing fellow Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104284	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Cesarik and his associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I fully agree with those first sentences my predecessor said. Here, we agree on something. This isn't just a report. This is a small study. Actually not a small study, this should be read carefully, a series of data that should be compared, 251 pages seems to be text. In addition, you still have additional instructions to read in order to understand the problem. Of course it's the MPs, especially at a small club, if they're doing more that it's very hard to master all that stuff. All praises on the report itself and the report itself as the report of the club will certainly support because we think that under these analyses made in the report itself, the executive body at both state and local self-government level can take certain steps and can make moves. Now the question is, how effective are we in drug control? If there is no society at all to decide that we know politics or when it comes to this system, not only in Croatia but also globally, then it is decided by the centres of power. That brainwashing that everything that's socially wrong and that everything needs to be put into power centers started a long time ago, first applied by Americans, taught by the KGB, there's a series of studies about it. I don't think it's necessary to talk about it right now, to get into it alone. However, some indicators suggest that we are on the verge of falling to the bottom and that this is not the bottom of society and about the environmental impact or not the impact of the environment on young people. At the time, I'm not ashamed to say that, when I was a young man, when I was a teenager, we had free activities, we didn't know where we could go from activity. From sports activities, clubs, competitions in knowledge. Because today you tell one of the young people to compete in knowledge, to self-organize. But it's not their fault, it's our fault. So when we accepted the neoliberal capitalism multiparty we accepted everything that was worst, we didn't take it, the other day we discussed it we didn't take what was good in the past system and we left the young to ourselves. Now I'm just gonna get you some information. This is where the Deputy Minister talked about it... /The speaker's cell phone rings./... This happened to me the first time, I apologize. So just some data, and in one area where I grew up, which is closest to the West, which has and at the time of communism was the most received from the west of what was, say, in that area, which was Međimurje, the first self-service in the former Yugoslavia, a lot of private people were, so the private initiative was allowed at that time. I know that the heads of the party have baptized their children. So Međimurje was what I think with Istria were the longest opposition in the 1990s. However, the research mentioned in this study, as I said in this study, is worrying. In Međimurje in 7th and 8th grade primary schools, means 7th and 8th grade 5.6% of boys smoke and 3.6% of girls. It's not so alarming, but the 2nd grade of high school smoker is almost 36%, and the girl 40, that's the 2nd grade of high school. At the time I went to high school or elementary school when someone was smoking in seventh or eighth grade, or first grade high school, they were mostly repeaters, those troubled guys who smoked, there. More times a month or more often he drinks in the second grade of high school almost 62% of young people and 50% of girls, in the second grade high school at 16, 17 years of age. In the last month when the research was done was drunk in a month more times 42.5% of young men and every third girl. Inhaling assets inhale, they're glue assets and other means they're the cheapest 15% of children. That information is alarming. They're just alarming because today it's impossible that when we discussed the other day whether civilian police control, those in civilian control should be paid, we wouldn't pay everything for children to join clubs, and here it insists in the Parliament that everything that's social work should pay what's very wrong, which is wrong. I cited, I cited an example of a university professor, that there was once a professor, a worker, an attorney's honor to be in some commissions and honors and a social obligation. Today, if it is not paid, we have introduced such a system that everything should be paid, because if it is not paid they say it is not appreciated. We've run down all the criteria, we've had to. As for drinking alcohol, you know that Croatia is when some economic indicators, including social indicators about the efficiency of the judiciary that we are at the very bottom of the scale, and here we are at the very top, drinking beer only among the first 10 countries in the world with Europeans being the first 10, in the first places. The Czechs first, the Russians are in drinking alcohol in three, four places, we're holding on well and we can drink a lot and I don't see that all these measures being taken to deliver effective results. All of this, all the money that was allocated and not very isolated, 2 or 3 million kuna was less isolated in 2013 compared to 2012, is certainly not enough and that this fivefold increase would not be enough if the whole society was not involved. If we do not change our attitude toward free activities, according to society, according to the obligations of young people and old people, it will not be done no matter how good strategies are and how some institutions have tried to help those who have become involved in drugs. And our society has become tolerance for crime, and for alcohol consumption, and for the consumption of others, tolerance. So I'm not going to repeat this information that the assistant minister, the deputy minister said here, because the data is really very much, I recommend that the MPs read it, and if someone asks me if I have an answer to questions that don't literally have in the study itself that I don't have on it, but I think the thing is that the whole society is that we have to change the practice that we have so far, and that's that we've left everything that was worth it and that we've left the young people alone in the cafes. And today it's said that it's easier to get to drugs than anything, it's easier to get to drugs than to buy a pen wiper because you have a store I don't know in the center of town two three stores that sell it, and in every cafe you can get drugs. Therefore, this is a monster that not only the institutions of the state can deal with, the whole society should be dealt with, not only can the health system, not only can the education system deal with it, but all of us should change the logic of society and encourage socialism and not go into pure professionalisation as we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104285	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104286	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you spoke of the effectiveness of drug prevention and the role of politics in the work, and I noticed in this research work just as you mentioned the County of Međimurje it is said that the popularity of marijuana use is noticeable. At the same time, we see that 1102 kilograms of hemp seems to have been destroyed in 2013 and a sharp increase in interest in new drugs has been observed. But now I'm actually listening to you and I'm asking myself questions, and I'm asking all of us in that part of politics. What is this message from this assembly, which is a political message if we have statistics that the popularity of marijuana increases? What's the message from those who say you need to legalize easy drugs? Is this a good message, will this message not further increase popularity and have such messages in the end not already increased popularity in the consumption of easy drugs? I think that and that these are not good messages because if we send such messages we will surely go in the direction that more young people are involved in these programmes and that we will not talk about prevention but we will talk about how to prevent it and how to resolve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104287	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104288	Dear counterpart Hrg, these statistics that speak of that, courts have had far less to do in criminal proceedings, more in violation because easy drugs are not legalised but decriminalized use, meaning drugs, easy drugs, consumption of light drugs. However, I am more concerned about one piece of information, which is how much drugs have been seized in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't want to be alarmed by those shows when he says here's 300kg of this we seized, 200kg of that, I think we should all be worried because Croatia is in so-called. Balkan route, it is a transit country and through Croatia drugs are being smuggled for other European countries and we are too little market for real, large drug dealers. And to the extent that drugs are seized in Croatia, I've certainly talked to some drug experts that it's too little. You need to know that there's no serious drug trafficking in any country, that there's no drug transit that's not involved in, and there's no police involved in it. It is in every country, it is not a Croatian exception that there are no people lurking at border crossings that there is no relationship we will easily go to drug trafficking and therefore, according to the fact that drugs can be obtained in every cafe. I don't know when the last time was raids, I'm not into raids, but when there were raids where, say, there'd be those cafes where the drugs were sold unhindered. These are far bigger problems than decriminalization, the consumption of easy drugs all over me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104289	Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104290	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you said that this society has become intolerant to alcohol, to drugs, to crime. So if we remember last year when there was a football World Cup with sport, the most alcohol commercial was. So we connect that it is normal to practice sports and also to consume alcohol. Watching sports, drinking alcohol. I'm not going to mention it here, but you all know what alcoholic drinks were intensely advertised on TV and our young people who can understand the message? That beer consumption is quite normal if we watch sports or engage in sports. So after practice, have a beer and it's perfectly normal and that's fine. Well, my colleague Cain says it's okay. Well, I don't think that's right, especially if it's the children of 14, 15, 16, and I don't think that's right, and they won't agree with you, and I think that such ads should be forgiven for forbidding on television. That's my opinion. You said that clubs, you were probably thinking about sports clubs and other clubs in terms that deal with children, and I'm going to tell you that they have become a burden to the units of local self-government and the burden of this society. I run a club and I can tell you that it's awfully hard to get to the resources when it comes to amateur clubs because today your entrepreneurs are asking you where my benefit is. So we've lost that community service, we've estranged, we've let go, society everyone looks at itself. And what's most important is that our school has lost the educational component and that's where it starts and ends all the stories, everything is left to parents. Parents are chasing today, I'm not going to say career, I'm not going to say career, I'm going to tell you, I'm not going to say career, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to make a living to get those kids something to afford, and we just let go of the system and the education and only the parents. And that's where it starts and ends. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104291	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104292	Dear fellow Comparić Devčić, we agree, I fully agree with you, we should ban beer advertising. Dr. Breittenfeld says that alcohol drinks are the most dangerous beer. I read his last night, one of the best or best experts on the prevention of alcoholism. Watch it is, beer is declared food, when you feed 10 liters of beer, what are you fed or drunk? You're drunk as a plug. But the lobbys in Croatia are strong and have managed to expose politicians to get legally drunk or drunk and especially young people. What you were saying, I've said a lot about socialism. There are very interesting data that each can be interpreted in its own way. Yeah, clubs are a burden today, they weren't used to be a burden. The other day I was talking about that hunger in Croatia can eradicate a tycoon in Croatia with one thing, only with good faith. This when you come to ask today at any company to give you some money for the kids, for the club, for the handball club, football, basketball, yes, ask what it is my interest, just profit, nothing else. However, we need to ask ourselves how much we as a society are entirely to blame for this. Just don't forget the sentence, it's not mine, so then I can repeat it, so when there's no society politics decides on everything, the centers of power decide. We wanted it that way, so we still want politics to decide everything. I agree with Mr. Hrga, especially in local self-government, there is less and less money for so-called. Free activities as we used to call them and children are left to cafes and invite them every day from the screen drink, drink and that is the first step towards those slightly harder messages.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104293	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Assistant. Drugs are evil. With gambling, betting, and alcohol, the biggest addiction is to use or consume drugs, with the consequences of human health making the greatest damage and mortality too great. Like any addiction and drug addiction, one does not isolate the individual from its consumption. Drug consumption directly affects the narrow and further environment of each user and is extremely expensive for the whole society. The most expensive is when death occurs due to overdose or other consequences of drug consumption. The loss of any man is irreparable, and it is particularly bad if it happens because of the simply unnecessary use of drugs. We would like to at least shed some light on the problems encountered here and the individual who is an addict and the problems his or her family encounters. The consumption itself is, in most cases, a desperate man who has to comfort his insatiable thirst for opiate at any cost. These are people who have been lying since the beginning of consumption. They lie to their entire natural environment, and they're moving away from the natural environment, and they're approaching a new environment similar to themselves. While there's money to get to our drug addict's more or less turned and covered up, but when the money starts missing the addict moves into all possible illicit shops. He usually starts selling stuff from a family environment, keeps stealing, and rarely deals with stealing from a family circle or prostitution. Infrequently, there is extreme self-insulation or isolation by a nearby environment and mental or physical decay. Unfortunately, too often and to death. A family of addicts unless they're self-addictive mentality, usually after first knowledge, they don't believe or want to believe until they're aware of the truth that a family member is a drug addict. After the shock, the battle begins in every possible way for its dearest or dearest. When he steals, quarrels, and intolerances often the rest of the family is destroyed in misunderstandings and divergences, in the will and energy of saving their loved ones. In addition to the material poverty of the family, total destruction and long-term decomposition are common. Thus, in the family of long-term heavy addicts, complete destruction and self-insulation of individual family members are common and seeking a solution to escape from the problems of family members who are addicted to escape from their loved ones. Drugs are evil. It is difficult in this short time to say more about the very report written on page 250. It should certainly be said that the report is very precise, systematically arranged and that it has been done according to the methodology of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. It is very content, transparent, clear and understandable. In both text and table shows, it provides a clear picture and paints the problem of drug use in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the report shows methods of prevention of drug use and causally related to all systems from police, judiciary to health care and education. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the Register of People treated for the use of psychoactive drugs run since '78. Some 33,000 people were registered at the end of 2013. Croatia totals around 700, i.e. nearly exactly 720 million kuna of public money in the area of drug abuse in 2013 and that is around 0.22% of GDP. Obviously, drugs are easily available in Croatia. It's a more or less online activity. Online research of new drugs warns of the increase in the number of subjects who have consumed new drugs, and most often are consumed synthetic cannabinoids, ketamine and mefedron that have mostly been supplied from friends or personally in smart shops and even in kiosks, videos, clubs, gyms, sex shops, Indian shops and the like. According to the Office in the Republic of Croatia, around 15 smart shops offer a wide range of new psychoactive substances, of which a significant number is very risky for consumer health. In terms of drug trafficking, Croatia remains the primary transit country. According to the main asset in opiate addicts, heroin addiction prevails, while non-opiate addicts are dominated by cannabis addiction. According to data collected by the office in 2013 the therapeutic community provided treatment for a total of 732 people. In addition to the therapeutic communities, various forms of help for psychosocial treatment were provided to addicts by associations. It can be concluded from these data that in Croatia the treatment system is stable and that it works well as the fact that more and more different programs are being offered to addicts and that they are being kept in treatment longer and longer. Clearly, one of the most important parts of drug abuse prevention is prevention, and as part of our prevention in the HNS, it seems that the most important education is the education of all: both individually and collectively and conditionally speaking globally, education of the entire society, and especially of all actors in the drug abuse process, from police officers on the street to judges, doctors, school teachers to therapists in therapeutic communities. It is important to publicly educate and promote all the latest techniques and skills in prevention, as well as the treatment of the whole community's addiction. We all need to face the reality that 333 thousand of our fellow citizens are registered as drug addicts. They are not any freaks but are sick people who have the right to expect from society and get maximum and highest quality help. It is somewhat understandable that, because of the ignorance and ignorance, individuals turn their heads and Stigmatize addicts, but this must not happen in state and public institutions and not in educational and health institutions. In Chapter III, point (a) is replaced by the following: The prevention of this report shall include methodologies and activities of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, and work on prevention of all services and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. The importance of participation is highlighted as many participants in the prevention of institutional and non-institutional, and the importance of civil society associations in prevention. The importance of schools, families, and the common community is particularly highlighted. However, there is also the conclusion of a 2013 education that says that education programmes meet lower levels of quality programmes and that they need to be improved. In Croatia, the People's Party of Liberal Democrats, we believe that much more important involvement is needed in public communication of the problem of drug abuse. In our opinion, we need to invest significantly higher resources in raising the nation's awareness of the overall consumption of drugs and drug trafficking. And a few more words about resociation. Resociation or treatment is the ultimate and most important part of the overall process to combat drug abuse. Resociation or treatment saves lives and brings individuals back to normal life, returns families no matter how broken they are together. Since 2007, when a resociation project has been adopted, certain positive developments have been observed in various communities and civil society associations through institutional forms of treatment. We in the HNS believe that as a state and a society, we must dramatically strengthen the resociation programmes of addicts. An urgent decision is needed to approach the rehabilitation problem primarily institutionally and uncompromisingly in order to safeguard the health and life of our fellow citizens. A much cheaper comprehensive intensive non-compromising treatment programme for addicts than a constantly documented recovery attempt that lasts years without greater improvements and ultimately ends with these actual intensive treatments and hospitalizations. In cases of addiction, we at the HNS are prone to intensive treatment and resociation. Communication with the world and our close European most developed countries is needed. And just including in the system and methodologies of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction has improved our Office's work to prevent drug abuse. Certainly, examples of good world practice should also be used, for example, to consider a Dutch extremely successful programme of free intravenous heroin administration in state health institutions. The programme resulted in a 90 per cent reduction in heroin use and an 80% reduction in illegal heroin trafficking. We point out that fighting drug abuse is a struggle for all of us, the whole society. It's not just the individual shits in personal lives. And yes, let's ask our acquaintances that can simply happen to anyone. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats strongly supports all actions related to the prevention of drug abuse and the rehabilitation of addicts. The HNS Club will support the report in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104295	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104296	Col. Blazekovic, it is unquestionable that drug abuse, in fact, is an escape from life, an escape from reality, so it is a kind of escapism. That's right. So, escape from reality. And it seems to me that the methodology is to blame when it's said no, no, no. And that's like children's eenie, bakes, bakes. Methodology should be positive, yes, yes, to life. Not drugs, that means death. So, we can fight at this world-wide level by saying that we need to talk positively about life because drugs are a lifesaving escape. The second is the story of what we're hypocritical about, what wars have been waged, the opium war is the most famous. So the states were fighting over it so they could sell, say, to buy drugs on a particular one. It's business. And in that sense, synthetic drugs were invented in laboratories, mostly military and embedded amongst, amongst the young. So, the state will talk about the state as such, not about the Croatian state, but sometimes it benefits, i.e. people who make a lot of money in certain drug systems. There were civilizations where natural drugs were used in shamans of this, whatever, cactuses, mushrooms. But it's about making money today. Maybe Mexico is the paradigm of the country where it went the farthest, in a negative sense, so we read about these things every day. I don't think that in our country, we don't live in Robinson, it's not Croatian Robinzonia,... All of it, but I think we should methodologically go yes, positive to life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will be expressed not on drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104297	Boris Blazekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104298	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Jurjevic, you said in that part of your first part and in this last part exactly in the spirit of what I was saying about the debate and the way we in the Croatian People's Party view the problem of drugs, which is that we feel that this positive approach is necessary, and that it is self-stimulating and avoiding problems and pushing problems under the carpet that leads nowhere. We feel that we need to face each other clearly and clearly. We also have data in this report that are really indicative and can be indicators and guides for all those actions that are necessary to reduce to the least possible measure of illegal sales, to reduce to the least possible measure of drug consumption, although we are all aware that this will never stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104299	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104300	Your colleague Blažeković praised the report, the conclusion after reading the report is only one, and the state and society loses the battle against spreading drug abuse year after year, unfortunately. 11 years of trying to be part of the educational programme as a preventive programme have failed and in Croatia it is still purely extracurricular activity. I'm sorry about that. You mentioned smart shops, we are geniuses, smart drug trafficking in Croatia, and the role and task of the Ministry of Health under the law is to regularly put what appears on the list of banned psychotropic substances on the market. Our health ministry is late for 2.3 years updating that list of banned psychotropic substances and when police find something helpless because it is not on the list of banned funds in the Republic of Croatia. I suggest that the Department of Health have one who's going to go around smart shops to see which new goods appear. I get mad at that again and again because it takes 2 years for some new synthetic or natural drugs to be placed on the list of banned substances. How zealous we are in the fight against addiction we still have a ban on growing industrial hemp in Croatia. And here we have everything and everything on the market, and we still don't have the strength to say that's where we're wrong. And thirdly, Croatia has legalized heavy drugs, methadone as therapy. There's no mention of it in the report, so maybe someone saw it, so let me tell you, is one of the only addicts cured by methadone therapy in the Republic of Croatia? The only one? Take off after methadone therapy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104301	Boris Blazekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104302	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Lesar would agree with you if we weren't working hard enough on a total problem involving addiction and drug abuse. I think this is an opportunity for all of us and for every parliamentary representative to appeal to each and every one of us in its closer, its wider surroundings to the local political community, to the local community, to the wider political community, to the wider social community, to be much more intense, more systematic, with more energy and march we accept this job because this job is not going to be done by anyone else for us, and we better get going more intensively sooner than later. Later the problems are much, much bigger and later they become significant, significantly more expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104303	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104304	Thank you very much. You spoke a lot about the importance of prevention. It's actually the key to everything. If there's anything worth preventing from the old people better than treating them, it's for the addicts. And you highlighted the role of family and education. I personally think that's the most important thing. So family and education system are key to reducing the problem of addiction. Let's say about 15 years is the average of the first drug encounter, with heroin for 20 years, and 10 years has passed since the moment someone who started experimenting begins to be treated. It's this period that's problematic that in 10 years, people who started experimenting and taking drugs don't start treatment. Family, yeah, it's a key family. What's devastating? The truth of the first to discover that their child is being drugged is a member of the family, but in 50% of the cases. However, the percentage of those who went to the family address is only 6%. So this is one of the key problems that will need to be solved in the future in order to start treatment earlier. And what's extremely significant is education. I have to remind everyone, because I heard here today that education is not being conducted, which is completely wrong. Thus, the ministry’s decision started health education in all schools where a module of prevention of addiction is essential from grade 1 through grade 4 in secondary school. Therefore, if we succeed in prevention, the problem of drug abuse will be far less.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104305	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104306	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jovanovic agrees absolutely with everything you've said and I hope I'm not the only one who heard you, but those who need to step up their jobs and tasks to prevent drug abuse have heard you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104307	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104308	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Blažeković, of course, we all agree that as much as we are working on this problem that we always need more because it is also a problem for the individual, the problem of course for the local community and beyond. Since addiction to autodestruction is, of course, necessary to work on the form of behavior or what we have mentioned very often today about prevention, which is one of the most important factors. And that's why prevention should also be more structured because health care, what my colleague said in front of me, is being conducted. However, it needs to be implemented properly and the structure should always be put in place and require more. You then mentioned a resociation that is very important, of course there were shifts made. However, in resociation we cannot wait only for the state but, of course, units of local self-government should be involved, giving opportunities for new jobs, the possibility of resociating these patients can say, or addicts. Synthetic substances, they're a great danger, they should be placed on the list of intoxicating drugs, they should be constantly restored to see what the dangers are. We have a recent case that a young person has died from taking consumption of it. And in the end, more about the hospitalization that you also mentioned was important and in this case was commended that it was well done. I would, I'm sorry there's no Deputy Minister of Health here, I'd say at the hospital we should think in hospitals somewhere because it's not in the closed ward, hospitalizing such patients sometimes needs a closed ward. However, it does not matter to have a schizophrenic patient there, it is a special treatment, from an addict. Therefore, this should also be considered, in what way in hospitals there is, adapted to hospitalization of addicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104309	Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Coli Blažeković, you mentioned among other things the necessary resociation, I do not know if you are familiar with civil society organisations that are working to address this problem, i.e. to make the resociation more successful, in fact they do not know how much resources they will have available for 2015, they are down 34% compared to 2014. No tender is yet to be opened and the same funds that one organization in 2015 can apply for are down by 56%. So much for these efforts when we talk about resociation. You equally referred to the family, I agree, but here's a quick poll here among fellow MPs to ask if they even know what new drugs look like, if they've ever seen them, they've never seen them. So if they as parents don't know what it looks like, then we can't just count on the family to help the children, because the state is also helpless in discovering so-called. New drugs. Or the simplest state, not just ours, loses the battle with new drugs on the market. The death industry will always be faster than any bureaucratic apparatus, unfortunately. And yet another addiction that you haven't touched, that is to say, you've only mentioned it in the extremity, so there's another additive potential, which is gamblers, psychological gamblers, it's a growing number of gambling addicts in our country, but I'm going to talk more about it on behalf of the club. Education, I agree, but education refers to so-called. Known or old drugs, new drugs don't, unfortunately, even people in the system have to deal with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104311	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104312	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, you've begun your presentation with the sentence "Drug is evil." And in that probably no one in this assembly, and even in society would say otherwise, we all agree. You said you were happy with the report, especially in that section about some prevention programs. I'm going to say that I disagree with you here and I'm not happy with the report because it seems to me, and I was saying last year about the previous report that both in this report and in these prevention programmes there is not one very important segment, amateur sport, local community. When we talked and discussed the Law on Sports, the Law on Associations was then easy to calculate how many young people and children could be saved from the influence of drugs by investing in amateur sports, by organising children at sports sites. That's not what I found in this report, not in the prevention programs. I see here various associations, various programs, most of the secondary schools have defined programs for growth to central groups of children and young people, individual and group counselling, work on adopting social skills, involvement in the work of extracurricular activities. I don't see any sport when I'm reading any more. And I think it's one of the parts where it can be very, very much influenced, with little money to do great effects and improvements to these reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104313	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104314	Thank you very much. Well, pal, you obviously didn't fully listen to me, you got it. In addition to pointing out certain things that come out of this report, which are methodologies and above, I pointed out that the conclusion of an education in 2013 which says that the fact that education programmes meet lower levels of quality programmes and how they need to be improved. I am generally pleased with the report, but as with the report, and in my debate on behalf of the club and now in several replicas I have clearly shown dissatisfaction with practice, dissatisfaction with how it is practically solved. And as for your remarks that there should have been something said about sports in this report possible, but I think there are a lot of other reports and moments when you can talk about the benefits of youth, children's, youth's, student sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104315	And Drazenko Pandek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104316	Thank you. Dear colleague, you are in your speech, which you would agree with, to point out that addicts need help, they are indeed victims throughout this story. However, it should be said, of course, that the problem of drug abuse will best be prevented by cutting off these supply channels. So that's where the most responsible are those dealers from bigger to smaller, so if we can take repressive measures, and if we cut those channels out clearly, we're going to do a lot to prevent drug abuse. That's what I'd say when we say addicts are victims, but they're not people who have no business ability, who are not fully aware of all the circumstances in which they are. So I might take this opportunity to encourage a debate about increasing the responsibility of addicts when we talk about the disclosure of those who sold them drugs because they certainly know where they got it, know which channels and their cooperation can be extremely useful for us to cut these channels. When we discussed it here before, I was also talking about that maybe it should be as a criminal offence, Sui Genis' own crime to form the crime, not to reveal the information about who supplied the drugs, who sold the drugs. So we can't deny the full responsibility of addicts in the whole drug problem and we can ask them for better reference. Of course, this should be predicted in a way that frees them completely if they are involved in the discovery of those who have sold them drugs, or given them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104317	Boris Blazekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104318	Thank you. Two things I'd like to say to you, one thing is that I think no matter what condition, stage they're addicts, they're people and they're them, and I think they're sick people just because they're addicts. Not just drug addicts, alcohol addicts and gambling addicts. And I think that no matter how much this together acts repulsively that they are people, that they are human beings, that they are patients and that they need to be approached in that way. And as far as I'm concerned, I didn't want to get into any of the global problems of drug abuse and drug use at all, obviously something at global level is wrong. Because it is not with a great struggle, with the vastly spent resources that all countries and even the most developed like America and Western Europe have invested in preventing and combating drug abuse has failed. Obviously, it takes a global shift in the paradigm in the fight against narcotics because this is not working so far. And my colleague Jurjevic also mentioned what is happening in Mexico, which is amazing to kill hundreds and hundreds and thousands of people who are involved in the fight against drugs, drugs, sales, etc. So, what I'm saying is that obviously, the overall global plan is wrong, but under the circumstances of our Croatian community, I think that with a more intense work, we can do a little more to prevent and help those who need this help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104319	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. Damir Caine first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104320	Dear Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll join all those who say it's an extremely high-quality report and all the praises to the authors. Unfortunately, that report is already out of date. And I'm gonna say it one more time, that report is getting old today. Just means last year when we talk about last year's 2013 report means '12th, there were 81 new opiates, of which 81 new opiates in Croatia appeared 12 new opiates. I'm worried that that way, so some of those new drugs that haven't been police yet, I don't know what to say, processed, even some people have been liquidated, but I won't talk about it. But why did I say that the report was outdated, very simply, on page 166 literally stands although in recent years, I quote, in neighbouring countries, laboratories for the illegal production of synthetic drugs in the Republic of Croatia have not yet been reported any such cases. Domestic production does not exist because, with experience, market, logistics, accompanying chemical industry and experts engaged in illegal drug production, production in Croatia is not economically profitable. Synthetic drugs such as amphetamines, amphetamine derivatives are most commonly done in Ecstasy tablets, etc. smuggling in different ways from the areas of certain Western European countries, etc. Gentlemen, this is all wrong. This is all wrong. Oh, God, that's just the way it is. However, right now in the last major crime action of USKOK, the Istrian Police Administration, the Primorje-Gorski Police Administration, when 23 dealers dropped mostly from villages, domestic boys, our Istrians in the region of the leader, Istria was found to be the first such labs of amphetamines in Croatia. I'm sure we have more labs like that in Istria. So if you want those pills you don't go to Amsterdam anymore, you don't go to Colombia where the youth of a party keeps training, that a man doesn't believe but is coming to Istria for it. So what's up? It is served, primarily by school children and normal hip-hop festivals across the Adriatic coast, in Istria everyone shakes from the 6th to the 10th month, it is financed by our cities, the county, even the Ministry of Tourism for this dimension outlook stands out 300 thousand kuna. In the evening, the festivals are brought to police stations of 150, 200 or more drugged tourists of children, ours, theirs, it doesn't matter to anyone. And then a man asks himself what these studies will do to us when they are encouraged, I will openly say narcotourism, when from Croatia "full of life" and nebulous, as it is said, but what it is, what it pays is 2.8 million kuna, we encourage both narcotourism and simply shut down lives. What I regret most is that in the region we have the biggest problem in Croatia when it comes to drugs. And that's why I'm absolutely asking for help. It's moving for the better, it's absolutely moving for the better in Istria, but it's far from the good. On the 100 000 inhabitants of Istria there are the largest number of treated addicts 507, the Primorje-Gorski County 343, Zagreb 304, Zadar, here are the smokes behind our necks, they also beat Istria 2:0, with 487, Split 294. But in Istria at 208,000 inhabitants we have the meaning of these 849 addicts in treatment, Zagreb 1430, but they have four times the population, the Primorje-Gorski County 640, but there are 80 000 inhabitants more than Istria, etc. Only one association from Pula, the Institute in 2013 handed over 263 kg of needles and syringes to burn, and I don't think that's funny. It is five double-filled carillos spun, Mr. MP, but on the ground of Istria, they collect needles and syringes and Terra from Rijeka, and they collect 20 153 needles and ca so many injections. We have a problem, and that's why we need help. In 2013, the Pula Institute shared 68 230 needles plus 10,000 needles with Terra from Rijeka. I said things have changed in Istria since 2014 when the entire drug-fighting department that was caught dealing drugs fell. Normally, I condemn it, of course, that no one can understand them, but I guess they're acting like what, if people in power can sniff out why we can't deal. Of course it's the most drastic punishment. We had dealers in port administrations. In Honduras, one of these fell with 2.2 tons of cocaine. Communal monks do so and therefore all students, all students, all employees, mostly in these public services, should in some way be tested on drugs annually. What I can't believe is that the county leader who has the biggest problem with the addiction of the isolates, and all that is here is the data, 2013. 10.4% less than in 2012 or only 487 000 kuna. It's embarrassing. For the million-and-a-half kuna team, for the media somewhere 4 million kunas, for phones 5 million kunas, etc. It's like they're trying not to solve the problem. The Primorje-Gorski County stands out 2.2 million kunas, Zadar said they suck on our necks 770, we 487, Virovitica, where Istria has 21 times the number of treated addicts as many as 618 000 kunas, etc., etc. If there's anything that needs to be allocated to money in this country, I mean, it's simply that battle against addiction because we don't know who that could happen to the kids tomorrow. Speaking of seized in 2013 in Istria, they were only on the trail. Why? I said before, because the police were put in drug trafficking, so here on page 207 yes, we had the number seized 1126 but why is that, because after these hip-hop festivals every night 100 people end up in police stations. 66 grams of heroin, nothing, hashish 647 grams, marijuana 15 kg, cannabis 72 grams, cocaine 76.9 grams, some in 2 months, LSD 76 grams and methadone 700 and some pills etc., etc. And that's why I'm saying that you just need to help those who need help and that, and that 487 000 is again divided into some quasi-projects like via escapes, now these regionals are going to gravitate, etc., but one word simply needs to talk about it and adequate funds should be allocated for that. I, as someone here has said, Mr. Hrg, think this marijuana campaign is a cure if the drug is all, absolutely, a dangerous game of health and that it should be extremely, extremely careful. Otherwise, a society like someone said earlier, a colleague from the HNS, so to fight addiction, 720 million kuna, that's 100m euros in 2013. It's huge money. So in 10 years to fight addiction, the Republic of Croatia sets out a order of about 1 billion euro. What are the long-term losses with that billion euros? It's simply immeasurable and that's why I agree with all those who talk and about prevention, and I'm adding repression, but the point is both after and where to hire these people. Table on page 125 says it's moving better. In 2007, we had the total number of employees of treated addicts 11, 2008. 16, 2011. 21, 2012. 88, 2013 even 114. So the trends are just good because there's also this part of it and let the policy change that way. We need to get rid of these people and the housing, education. They were all talking about resociation, reaching some compromise on the opening of communes, hospitals, etc. etc. Everything needs to be done in a word to help these children or those young people, to help parents, to help families. And that's the only way we can help the community, I guess. It is also worth talking about and yelling about, and if it is necessary to shout and call, not hide the problem and push that problem under the carpet. I would say that this continental part of Croatia does not have a problem as expressed as the coastal part of Croatia starts from Istria through Primorje-goranska, Zadar, Sibenik, down to Split County. And that's why we don't have to lie that this problem is none of our business, because the problem in nature is perhaps four, maybe five times more pronounced than these figures that the ministry presented to us. I'm saying that you really need to multiply everything in some way times 4, maybe times 5, and you're free to talk about that there are over 80,000 people on the ground who have taken a bite into this problem. And these people, if we want both these parents and society as a whole, that's how I express myself, we need to help. Once again, I'm going to say that it's an extremely high-quality report, all commendation to the authors. But in some segments, it's simply life I said about these labs of anti-fitamines already out of date.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104321	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104322	Comrade Cain, you, as part of your colleague, have highlighted the problem of new drugs. The market for new drugs keeps growing, and it really is a big problem. Let's say that while Croatia refreshes the blacklist on the market, more than 270 new drugs will appear in Europe. It's a problem that the Office of Drugs recognized and actively dealt with. Otherwise, in Croatia over the past few years, 30 of such new drugs have appeared and how to ensure that the fight against them is more successful. It's no problem if parents saw that drug as someone said today, the problem is that they follow their children's behavior. A pill like this or something, like that will always be these new drugs. But we need to monitor the behavior of the children. And there's once again the role of family huge. In order to help, it is also a proposal that I saw at one of the discussions of the Anti-Drug Office, which is to introduce a generic list that would greatly ensure that as soon as the drug appears, it is immediately on the blacklist.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104323	Caine, right? Shandor Juhas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104324	Dear colleague, you mentioned more recent opiates and you talked about the great money that is being invested we can say in the promotion of these powerful festivals, where they use more or less to get you drunk. I wouldn't talk about those new opiates. I think that in the continental part of us and in Slavonia and Baranja, we are slowly taking the old booze away, slowly because of the great poverty that exists there, the indifference, parents are turning to the old habits they learned from their grandparents and their grandparents, and then we have a situation that it is no wonder that young mothers are cooking macaque tea or that the child is calmed by pain, pay, etc. Yes, a little brandy, i.e. A little bread soaks in the brandy and then the baby sleeps better. I think it's also one of the key problems and I don't think that the opiate problem will be solved if it doesn't point to this huge regional diversity that's ruling or the diversity that's ruling with us. You also mentioned the availability of opiates. Well, I think that country could take drastic action, too, if not dragon measures. We were in a situation, that when the fiscalization was introduced that certain places had been closed if they had 5 kuna extras in the cash register for 3 months, 6 months etc. Well, then let's go apply the same principle. If you're selling drugs, if we find drugs in your bar and we're going to close that place for a year, two years, three years, or I don't know how much to start, it means applying those measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104325	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104326	It's certainly one thing that repression as such cannot be ruled out, but what's just primary, what needs to be done, simply believe, I would tell the institutions. If we have a problem with institutions, and in some parts of the Republic of Croatia it has been expressed even then we have such percentages as we do today in Istria, but perhaps down in Dubrovnik-Neretljan County which again has a twice less pronounced problem than Istria. But I'm saying that in the context of these recent police interventions in connection with the arrest, I don't know a group of 18 or more cops. Yes, 80, 90, or 100 new opiates appear on the market each year. It's hard to keep track of it, it's hard to even put it in this classification of those opiates. And how to fight it, how to educate those who should prevent it is also more than questionable. However, it is a questionable fact when we look at the coastal counties of Istria, Primorje-goranska, Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar County, or Split County, Dubrovnik that there is absolutely the most pronounced problem while in some counties it is only in the tracks. In Belarus, for example, 7.6 treated opiates addicts per 100,000 inhabitants, I said in Istria a leader in the region of 507 people per 100,000 inhabitants. It's a huge problem, we've got problems, and that's why I'm alluding to help us in some way. And I don't think it's gonna hurt us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104327	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104328	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Cain, you spoke of a quality report and we all agreed that it was quality, but if this debate is followed by parents who are considering prevention in their children, then this debate must be good. However, we should also talk about parents whose children have become addicts, and they are also dealing with these existential issues today and are blaming politicians for the bad economic situation because they actually see in them the reason why their children became addicts. But then these same parents, when they have an addict in the house, grab each straw to help their child. And of those who help them are associations that deal with rehabilitation and reconvalescence. Last night, we heard that these associations actually lost more than 30% of the revenue allocated from gambling. What to do about it, perhaps we should talk here today and how to act that actually the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not abolish these funds to these associations dealing with rehabilitation and rehabilitation of addicts that we had the opportunity to listen to last night. And maybe something else that you haven't touched, maybe at the very end, but also because of the very bad economic situation, they're actually on the rise of those people who spend a large amount of antidepressants and actually become addicts and they don't know it themselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104329	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104330	To be honest, I've never seen that white or those pills before, mother to me, ever. I've never seen that weed before. But every day I get women, mothers, parents come and talk about the problem before everything else I live in. And that's something that worries me most about this economic social moment. How to help these people, how to eradicate this evil? And I therefore agree with you that it was extremely incorrect by local self-government and also by the state of Croatia when it reduces NGOs that may be the most heartiest in all of these funds that could help the wider social community. I will mention them once again, from the Institute of Pula, which only in 2013 handed over to burn a total of 263.1 kg of needles and syringes. It's five full carillos with 60 kilos to express my syringe. So can we imagine what's just going on here in those places? Clearly, these NGOs are also the Croatian Red Cross, and Terra from Rijeka, and... etc. All these associations collected 41 329 needles and 38 979 syringes in 2013 alone. And that is why they need to be encouraged in this work, not reduced by funds such as practices throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104331	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104332	Thank you. In your debate, a well-respected colleague of yours, you have found that encouraging certain tourist activities such as encouraging the maintenance of certain music festivals is essentially encouraging more drug consumption, especially these synthetic drugs. I don't think that's a very good definition of the problem. In fact, if you have read this report, you have seen that in most of these tourist sites when analyzed, which is a new method, when you analyse waste water that is in the summer period, whether or not these festivals are held, the increased presence of these remains of intoxicating drugs shows that most of the population that are present there consumes such drugs. So, in this way with this argument we could say that encouraging every tourism is essentially a greater incentive. People come on vacation, a part less likely part of them who consume drugs, maybe even more often do it than they do at home, and when they come on vacation, they take it more for recreational reasons. I don't think it's a solution to moving any kind of tourist activity, I think the solution to what I've said before in cutting that supply chain is. What we may be able to do is encourage some new normative solutions like I said in some way might force addicts, give them a greater incentive to reveal who supplied them with drugs, to participate actively in breaking that supply chain. I think that's the only way we can achieve a better result in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104333	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104334	Yeah, wastewaters are normally analyzed down in Zadar, unfortunately they're not analyzed in Istria. Here's what I'm asking you to do. They may not be able to be analyzed because of new drain systems that are in the stage of production and in Istrian space, but perhaps in 2.3 years, there will be someone in Istria to analyze these wastewaters as much as it cost. Not one police inspector who works or "tracks" under quotes what happens on these dimensions, outlooks, etc. He came up to me and said yes, you're right when you mention it was drug-tourism. I'm really behind it. Every night 150, 200 people are simply being brought into police stations, not to mention how many end up in those manual hospitals because of the consumption of another. If you did that test on all of them so I dare say at 80, 90% of them would be just positive. And so let's, let's make sure what we're just doing on our shores, that a country that should begin to admire the slogan Full of life paid for 2.8 million kuna, wouldn't really become a country not full of life but something else, full of drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104335	Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104336	I think we should commend our colleague Cain for presenting specific data when it comes to opiates, and I would point out that when it comes to addictions and opiates, it's a civilization problem. It's not only Croatia, it's our entire civilization, and it's hard to deal with that problem. The second thing I'd say is a question of new addictions that we haven't heard about here today, and they're quite present among young people, that's gambling addiction. They say that more and more young people depend on gambling and to make it easier to get the money they need. Easy solutions when it comes to civilization issues, and I know it from my work, it just doesn't. And we can't prescribe recipes here, but anything that reduces the risk of opiates, and what makes a man on the right track, I think it's a good investment, and that's what needs to be invested. It's said that at least some people think that our civilization is sick, and when a man lives in such an environment of sick civilization, then he tends to look for fast solutions and they're addictive and intoxicate. Unfortunately, there are no cheap and fast solutions to the deeper meaning of life, who, to whom value, or value will give priority depends on their own choice, but it is dangerous to replace one addiction with another addiction and consider that only the matter solved. That's what we have here. I don't think that's the right way out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104337	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104338	When you say that the marijuana game can be dangerous and that we really need to be careful, we need to agree fully with you in this work, and I think it is with such caution that the Ministry of Health who formed a special commission from our experts and as we see it will soon come with its results, it is already announced that the general opinion of experts is that the use of Indian hemp can make it easier for some patients or even contribute to the cure of the disease. The use of exactly such, illegal use exclusively for medical purposes does not mean legalisation, there is caution, legalisation of marijuana and use, this does not mean free possession of other, free-growing drugs, hemp, marijuana, or exchange, but only use in strictly controlled conditions, in strict products to be prescribed by the doctor. And that's how it's really going to stop if such poor people stop going to drug dealers unlike Europeans who go to a pharmacy in such cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104339	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104340	I tried to read this entire report, and normally when I speak and speak, and I was particularly emphasising first and foremost on opportunities in Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, which is understandable, there I live, it is my constituency, and there is finally this problem, I would say the most expressive. And certainly the same as Don Grubisic said earlier that the problem cannot be solved from today to tomorrow. But I will repeat once again that this marijuana game can be dangerous. Absolutely if it is a cure for prevention, treatment of any disease all, including using marijuana, and decriminalization of marijuana yes, but should remain in that sphere of criminal punishment. This when someone tells me here we will decriminalize this personal use it is kind of strained on me, but let's make it some standard in the Republic of Croatia, but I'm afraid that in a period of maybe 5 to 10 years at the latest for two mandates, in the second term of office of this Parliament, someone will remember and legalize the use of marijuana as is the case in one Netherlands, or a year ago in the United States.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104341	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104342	Dear colleague Cain, I'm about to start with what you're done with, legalizing easy drugs. In Croatia, easy drugs are not legalized, but I repeat the decriminalisation of drug consumption has been resolved by a new law. And rightly mentioned by the Dutch society, if the Dutch society and Croatian society are compared, that is, one and the other state will see that your thesis stands on glass feet. Our problems are far deeper, far deeper what I was saying in my debate, is that there is simply no society in Croatia. There is no social concern in Croatia. In Croatia everything has moved to institutions and you know well how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia trust in institutions and how these institutions work, they do their job. So long as it doesn't become a social concern, so long as we don't have a society, we'll talk about all the blacker and blacker data when these reports are on the agenda. You should be just as concerned and it's the same as the issue of abortion. In those countries where abortion is banned, there are far more illegal abortions than there are in the countries in which it is allowed. It is important to stimulate the birth of children in different ways, and that is to say, towards young people, the apartment, how to enroll in college, how to today young people plan a family. ... It has to do with, of course, it doesn't, it has, it has, it has, it has colleagues just because as soon as you don't see it then it means you don't connect things well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So first of all, family and society are two basics, if we fail to do it, and then family and society will have no results.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104343	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104344	Legalization of easy drugs on my part, no, decriminalization is in effect. So I think we'll all agree that our problems in this society are absolutely different and incomparable to one in the Netherlands. And it shouldn't go far in history so that some parallels can simply be pulled out of it. One is the case in the Netherlands, other opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. One occasion was in Croatia by the 1990s, other occasions are simply today. Since the '90s, we've lost that material base here and I agree with you in one sentence when you said that at these premises in the last 10 or 15 or 20 years simply lost company.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104345	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague of Suncana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104346	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all that the state and, unfortunately, Croatia is not a lonely helmet for the so-called New drugs. Similarly, what we must all ask together is to amend the law so that new substances can be found as quickly as possible on the list of banned substances. That's what we need to do as quickly as possible. Because one update was in 2011 and then it happened in December 2014. In contrast with the new types of drugs that flood Europe's market and thus Croatia's system, it systematically loses the battle. It's only in deaths like it was a few weeks ago when it comes to the media, when unfortunately a young person loses his life when something louder and more thorough talk about problems. Drugs are available in Croatia. This is what we talked about last year, this is the 2013 report, the circumstances have changed since that time 101 new drugs appeared on the European Union market but the availability of drugs in 2013 according to one extensive study has been devastating compared to its prevention and data that in one hour it is easy to access marijuana, synthetic drugs, methadone and heroin. Accessibility is also worrying about where you can get it. You can take care of it in a public place or you can go to a dealer at home or they will simply deliver it to your house. However, this last one has become a little rarer but what's more common and almost 40% in a public place are available to you with these drugs. Many substances and ingredients can be ordered legally via the Internet, it is no secret. And it is no secret that these ingredients as fresheners and bath salts talk about them systematically, however, we must publicly admit I am not sure that the Croatian public recognizes them, I am not sure that the family can recognize them and I am not sure how many experts can recognize them. No system can be as fast as an innovative drug industry and that's a fact. So for heroin to you, I'm going to go back a little bit to this availability that's really scary, you're going to need a little more time than 2 to 4 hours, but you'll definitely get it and it's available in Croatia, hashish within an hour, cocaine, according to the available data, which reaches the highest price, or the highest price within 2 to 4 hours, and according to the prices available somewhere for grams, it's 400 to 700 kuna. Croatia, like all other countries, has a problem but Croatia does not have as a country in the environment as a burning drug problem. We are still mentioned in all European data and in data exchanges with EU countries as a country for transition. And we need to be aware of that. However, we must also be aware that we will not win the fight with drugs and that this cannot be a comforting fact. No law can prevent it but only prevention, it existed, exists, we see it and from this report, however, it is not and it is inadmissible to reduce the resources of those involved in this prevention. More effective to make the system, I repeat once more illicit substances as often as possible on the updated list, so a list of psychoactive substances that mimic classical drugs or those that we like to call drugs that we know about, drugs that we know about. In Croatia, alcohol consumption is on the rise, some will be made more acceptable than for example drug consumption. Thus, a study was conducted in Međimurje County between girls and boys and among young and girls and what really is not good in this study is that young people and girls, girls and boys have responded in the way you come to alcohol, and it is usually offered at home by parents. So that's what the kids in the anonymous poll said, unfortunately that's it. I refer here to the County of Međimurje for a purely reason because it is an extensive study just there. When we speak in the context of the economic and social crisis, it shows the faces of other addictions. Thus, according to estimates of experts in the treatment of addiction diseases at the moment, there are up to 100,000 addicts on new addiction, which is gambling. It gambles when it is available to you, it is usually said, but what is also a significant factor, therefore, to come to an opportunity. However, experts point out that each of us has its own adaptive potential. Maybe he'll go to someone else's direction, you won't reach for alcohol, you won't consume drugs, you won't go to the casino, maybe you'll get lucky and eat maybe just one more cake. However, the adaptive potential is just going in the wrong direction, and it is getting kind of burning at a time of crisis and that is what experts warn of. So socio-economic opportunities are usually the main trigger to be warned by a profession that can lead to new addictions. The last few years have also recorded the rapid appearance of new psychoactive substances that cause adverse consequences, so the market is growing before they arrive to detect, study, put on the list. New substances are just being placed on the market. On the one hand, we have a problem with substances that are dangerous, but we also can't limit the freedom of movement of goods, and we're kind of in that narrow passage that we're hard to find a way out of. As for this report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan, we would like to commend those who worked on it. Indeed, extensive data have been collected, information from all relevant institutions and also from the non-governmental sector. On the one hand, we are satisfied because it would appear that we have a situation under control, but on the other hand we see data that are worrying us, which is precisely the emergence of new dangerous substances and new drugs that are much more dangerous than what we call it. It's a classic example of heroin. The data for last year, in which we will obviously discuss next year, is that from 20 counties or plus the city of Zagreb, even 14 counties are dependent on drugs on growth. One of the so-called problems. are smart shops, they talked about it, stores that sell different products, usually there you can go for different tobacco products, but recently they have become more famous and under public guard precisely because of these unfortunate cases or the death of a young boy. In any better smart shop you can buy a preparation in Croatia that is actually similar to marijuana, usually in one bag, are legal, are available to everyone, can be rolled into a joint. That was just the case with the so-called. the air freshener declaration it seems to have been consumed by a young man who unfortunately died. They're cheaper than classic weeds say addicts and let's not forget they're new drugs on our market, so-called. Spice preparations. Neither adults nor children nor experts nor anyone who is seriously involved in drug problems actually know their influences, they don't know what the consequences are. After the boy died along with customs, sanitary inspection, the police visited according to what was available to us from the media and visited 15 smart shops. Found matter was sent to art, I don't know if we have any, we don't have government representatives, unfortunately we don't have an answer yet to the question of whether unknown narcotics or their substances will finally be placed on the list of banned substances. Long-term consumption, what is known is that it can cause severe and unpredictable consequences, psychotic reactions, confusional conditions, may be affected by internal organs because the plants found in such packages are usually exotic plants, containing high amounts or extracts of poison. The particular problem is that dealers plant new drugs on their customers by selling them under the substances of the old or famous ones, and in this way we're actually spinning around in circles. Legal penalties for possession or distribution of new drugs are the same as for all other drugs. When you look at the numbers that are spinning in a huge drug business, then there's no obstacle to them. They will certainly earn more than we can punish. Domestic research conducted by the government's Drug Control Office has shown that the use of new drugs is increasing. Young people usually consume synthetic cannabinoids that they get from friends or buy in smart shops. During 2013, more than 7,000 people were registered in health institutions in the Republic of Croatia due to drug addiction. Up to 20 years of age, there were 8% and most treated addicts in the 30-34 group. Addictions are usually medium professional equipment, not about uneducated people, medium or higher and high. This high proportion of treated addictions can be talked about addicts who are still the most addicts, part of which is the cause of a large number of addicts who have been treated with a method of maintenance or methadone, but one of our most famous experts says that only 20% of treated addicts live without treatment for the rest of their lives. So 80% of treated addicts take some sort of replacement therapy for the rest of their lives. The most pronounced problems of the abuse of psychoactive drugs on a hundred thousand residents aged 15 pardons to 64 years are the right part of colleagues Cain show that he is the most addicts in Istria County, then Zadar, Primorje-goranska, Sibenik-Kninska, the city of Zagreb, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Split-Dalmatia County. Because of the socioeconomic opportunities, it is saddened to grow and consume tranquilizers, antidepressants that are increasingly taken without control and some also lead to addiction, and antidepressants because they are available very often to children. Civil society organisations that certainly contribute to drug abuse and all forms of unbelief addiction have accepted the information when it comes to the annual tender plan to be called during 2015 concerning the financing of civil society organisations and EU budget and funds, according to which the total funding is foreseen for 2015 for OCD projects implementing treatment prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation programmes for addicts has been reduced by 34% compared to 2014, and that the maximum amount of funds for which one organisation can apply is reduced by 56% compared to last year. That, for the first time, damage reduction projects that have always been financed through health protection programme support have been included in the area of curbing addiction. If that's what we're talking about then, by the very logic of things, they belong there, and that funds are being reduced in such a way both for the area of damage reduction and for the area of prevention of the resociation of addicts, and that the funding of addicts is thus reduced by almost 50% and the reduction of damage by 65%. And at the end of what I still want to say, so it is necessary that the more urgent changes to the law be made, it is necessary to enable institutions to be able to act faster, that they can react more quickly and, in particular, as we all agree, we also appeal to the health minister who puts it on the list so-called. prohibited substances. We have to face it very clearly and talk about new types of addiction and not only at the declarative level, so once a year when this report comes to the Croatian Parliament to analyze all this data, they are surprised if the drugs have become available. On the other hand, to praise the report, and yet not to react when the state budget is voted upon and we have to react, in fact that without the resources all these measures we are talking about, which is prevention and ultimately for those who find themselves unfortunately in such a situation and in such a process of resociation, i.e. the treatment of the means must not be reduced. From games of chance not bringing here into a relationship, so a new addiction and that's a gambling addiction. Yet over 300 million kunas stand out for sport, and they stand out equally for these programmes. And I don't think we should let the funds shrink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104347	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104348	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. It is true that Glavak, two documents are fundamental to the Republic of Croatia and that social sensitivity is present, and this report and the National Strategy, as well as the Action Plan to combat drug abuse. One of these activities that countries are trying to fight the problem of drug abuse is the activity of reducing the offer you've been talking about for a little while here at the pay phone. To address these problems, information is certainly needed and now as an EU Member State, and I suppose Deputy Minister Cesarik spoke about it, there is now certain information that we can use from the law enforcement body, the drug consumption itself and other EU experts that we can use. But what you were talking about is the information about how to get drugs, so here I am, because of you and for the sake of all the Croatian public, saying that out of the 15 drugs offered, which are processed by one recent research, let's say in the first place, by delivering home and the public place of the open type, this subbutex is your first. So in the first place, then hashish is second place, extasy in third place and then syntheticly these catinions and these cannabinoids that are fourth place. In closed spaces, you think of cafes and clubs fronting cocaine and exstassy that are actually in the first place. What you're talking about at the end, and it's good that you mentioned it, we should talk about it today, maybe all day, because the reduction of funds to associations that are actually dealing with rehabilitating addicts to this should be appealed. The government should not reduce these funds to these associations, because associations that do so actually help not only these families but also society as a whole in the rehabilitation of the addicts themselves who are actually the only salvation parents of addicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104349	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Exactly, my colleague Babic, what I have missed to say when it comes to, for example, communals or communities if you want to know better under the communes. So they have recently begun to receive the so - called so - called “receivers. ” New addicts, and they're gambling addicts. They say experts, so I mentioned the number over 100,000. Unfortunately, people come to treatment or ask for help only when they exhaust all possible mechanisms, or when they lose everything they had. It's said that it can actually be calculated exactly when you reach the limit of your debt, so the gambler when he sees that he can't go on looking for help just then. So, communities dealing with drug treatment, and this time we're not just talking about addicts or users of different types of drugs anymore, but also new addicts, a new kind of addiction. They may receive, we need to see, I'm sorry we don't have the data available right now, how many people are taken care of in such communities and what is their structure. Coming back to the beginning of your replica of availability, what's worrying is, for example, you know that there are substitutes so-called so-called. Methadone therapy or some other, what is worrying are data on the availability of replacement therapy that should not happen, replacement therapy should be available in medical offices, it is known exactly how, under supervision, and according to the available data, over 50% of replacement therapy users say they can get it by delivery to the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104351	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104352	My dear colleague Glavak, you spoke of one issue that is very important, more questions that you spoke of, but one thing you pointed out and you said that we treat alcoholism as less dangerous. However, we need to know that more, in fact, about 500 thousand Croatian citizens are overdrinking, and 200 thousand are registered alcoholics. It's a monster we should be very afraid of. You were talking about young people starting drinking at home first. But the data on how young people, and these are teenagers, sell alcohol is amazing. Each fifth eight-year-old managed to buy an alcoholic drink at a store, a kiosk or a gas station. Every third minor consumed alcohol in a cafe or restaurant. And even 50% of those who were trying to buy alcohol, so in the store, at the gas station, in the kiosk, 50% of them never asked for ID. That's why I'm saying we're like a society that resonates traders? It's important for me to sell, it's important for me to make a profit because if I don't have enough to sell, because those aren't store owners, they're shopkeepers, and the bosses are teaching them to sell as much as possible. So what I'm going back to and what you've been talking about, and many of my colleagues have been talking about here, which is that we've become indifferent to all the monsters as a society. If we were to behave differently as a society, you'd look different. And alcohol certainly isn't harmless, it's a step up to the heavy drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104353	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104354	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, there are also positive examples I must say immediately. So there are those who will still ask for a ID if they find out it's a minor, but in a global way, I agree with you. So, we have legislation, we all agreed. Despite legal regulations, young people say that all possible addictions or all possible preparations that can lead to any addiction are very easily available to them. Well, that's how it is with alcohol. When it comes to alcoholic beverages, beer is considered available to 89% of pupils and pupils of primary schools. So they come in, buy beer, see children as a food product, not to criticise anything special here, or with other intentions of making beer, or the law is what it is, so we know which are banned alcoholic beverages and whose advertising is forbidden, but here. So, it's just as devastating as 96% of students can easily get to wine, and I invite you here for a Saturday night out in my town if you want where you and I are going to find out if someone is a minor will always find someone who will be able to buy a limitless quantity for them, which is the cheapest alcoholic beverages and that will be consumed without any supervision. And of course what's at the end of the story is the problem, do these parents wonder where their underage children are and at what time? But that's another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104355	Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104356	With many views expressed by colleague Glavak, I agree. However, this problem should not count much with our families, which was said to belong primarily to the family and that they are responsible for the rise of various social addictions. One church authority said that today's population is the largest patient and that it is difficult to expect some shifts for the better and that society must organise that the highlighted problem of various addictions succeeds with the help of civil society associations and with the help of institutions that work as hard as they can. Somewhere it is the same, I don't think that this colleague Glavak stressed, that it could go to the bans of some species and control particularly important when it comes to alcohol opiates, the free purchase of certain drugs, and so on. The Jewish people had about 700 rules to regulate social relations in those days before Jesus Christ, 350 were like those who ordered what should be done, and there were just as many things that should not be done to preserve the society of the healthy. Jesus related these 700 regulations and reduced everything to a command of love for God both for his neighbor and for his own life. Today in fashion is the golden rule of world ethics, "Don't do anything else you don't want others to do to you."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104357	Your time is up, colleague Grubisic. The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with the family is the foundation, I will repeat that once again, but the family is the foundation when we talk about primary education, I believe you will agree with me. Upgrading education must be through our education system if you want through the Church, through religion. So, the family only provides primary educational guidance. We must not ignore her role, but what I was talking about is that the family is helpless and I will repeat it again in a brief survey here among colleagues, so parents are helpless because they don't really know what to fight because they don't recognize, going back to the drugs that we've all talked about the most, they don't recognize what new drugs are, what they even look like, as they're called, they just don't know anything about it. And we can't count on family, and we can't blame our parents. And what I particularly want to draw attention to, you've come back many years, or centuries ago, and we have arranged social relations with laws, we have legal frameworks, but what we all agree with is that the law can't monitor social disorders, the law can't follow new social behaviors, and again, by going back to the drug problem, to the problem so-called. new preparations that appear daily on the market. Social relations that, legally arranged, but unfortunately we can't win that battle.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104359	Martina Banic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104360	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Glavak, in your discussion, you mentioned a number of types of addictions to drug addiction, which is indeed one of the greatest monsters of our society today, you said gambling addictions, gambling games. However, I think it would be very good and important to mention another very important addiction, which is the dependence of children on the Internet. I don't know if you knew but that a lot of research today shows and that children actually almost don't distinguish the virtual world from the present. Today's kids get up and go to sleep with the Internet and social networks. What's more important to them is what's being published on the social network than what's really going on in life. I mean, it's all leading to violence and pedophile. However, we must become aware as drugs lead to death, so often on social networks of water to death. I believe that you remember as many of our colleagues, it is not only something that happens far from Croatia, we had a case in Croatia where a 16-year-old girl in Lobor took her life precisely because of a social media announcement. The children unfortunately become prisoners of the virtual world, and I think it's the same area where we should do something more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104361	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104362	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Banić, right, here we have young people here so if we were to ask them, well maybe they're a little too small, how much we can actually distinguish the virtual world from the real world we'd find ourselves in a big problem. So it's exactly a lot of young people depending on computers, a lot of young social people who just can't fit in at all normally in society because their best friend is a computer. This is where we come up with another problem, which is that these kids don't have friends, that they create their own profiles and create a completely different picture of themselves and that someone else is in that world, and that's probably how they find it easier. That's what we have to deal with. I believe it's not easy for parents. However, when we talk about the possibility of an increase in violence precisely because of it, so only if you look at cartoons, so for younger children and in what context they are made, what kind of violence all kinds of creative types of violence if we can call them that, then parents have a really difficult task of how and how to raise the right young person. As for online gambling games, or online betting, it is not so strongly present perhaps in our country, however the fact is that it has obviously grown in a bad economic situation, 100 thousand gambling addicts and of it is even 30% of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104363	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104364	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Glavak, if the government agrees that this report is both professionally and methodologically made and that it is acceptable and okay, but also the opinion is that it is too late because the new drug market is not stoppingly growing, of course the availability you spoke of is also growing unconstitutional. But it certainly falls into the eyes of that reduction of those means of prevention, while this other side, which is always a few steps ahead, realizes unimaginable figures. Surely it is an unequal struggle and that in that part the funds are insufficient. And what do we have left in these circumstances? They say raising the awareness of the family, families that most are struggling with with existential problems, which are in great difficulty raising awareness. But I would like to appeal to the consciousness of us here, even here, whose word has a special weight and those who do their programs and political to simply go out with some ideas such as easy to impress me, with ease saying legalization, so easy drugs, so like this, so drugs is drugs, the mechanism of developing addiction is the same please nice. In circumstances where this threshold of alcoholism in young people is coming down every day, under the circumstances when our demographic picture is a catastrophic, catastrophic demographic picture with such a way to perform here my program would be great, says drug legalization. So please nice it's irresponsible, unserious and it's not only that the government's Office for Drug Control but it's even for that council that was sitting here yesterday in this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104365	My colleague Milinkovic, I've been here a long time in the Parliament, never a single party, not one individual stood up for the legalization of drugs. Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104366	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Milinkovic, it is an absolutely difficult economic situation and each of us should either take responsibility or know that some of the funds are reduced or less available. However, we finance various associations and that is the fact. We can easily dismember and see what these associations are doing and how much money they receive. So then we're going to have a much more crystallized picture of whether or not we should cut the money, or whether it's the means to the therapeutic communities that are working on the rehabilitation of addicts. Let's not mysterious anything. We're in one maze, and we don't want to twist that nice action that used to be a drug sport, so it doesn't end up with drugs against sports. Because it's the same thing that reduces the funding in sports. My colleague mentioned it a few minutes ago, and here I am at a women's football club, and it's true, it's really hard to get the money. They may no longer ask the sponsors what I'm going to get for it, but you're still facing any obstacles from the Association Act, from various exhaustive reports, from the various obstacles that are there, I must say, the state has imposed small associations. What you specifically referred to is young. So your young colleague Milinkovic are very imaginative, they like to drink well, but it's not a problem that they like to drink but the problem is that they are underage and that they drink equally both girls and boys. Their favorite is beer, and they're not very familiar with hot drinks. So here you had a problem with alcohol, cubes, drugs, and these are some addictions plus online addictions to us completely unexplored, a whole new world that you're going to have to meet the education system with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104367	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104368	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I would refer to part of your debate, and my colleague Vuksic did so in connection with alcoholism. Because I don't want a lot of stories about new synthetic drugs to really ignore the problem of alcoholism. Because frankly it is good to repeat it here in the assembly, the biggest problem in Croatian society is alcoholism. According to the Eurobarometer with new synthetic drugs, the average meeting in Europe is 8% of young people. It's 7% in Croatia. But when it comes to alcoholism, there are 200 thousand alcoholics in Croatia as well, according to European data. In Croatia, we drink a liter of 12.8 liters of pure alcohol per year and we are the first in Europe. Thus, it also shows that society is in some ways too tolerant of the problems of alcoholism. And that the problem of alcoholism should be approached, perhaps a little more aggressive in the next period than it has ever been before, and not neglecting the problem of alcoholism because of the fight with other segments of disease and addiction. Alcoholism destroys family, alcoholism reduces school success, productivity in the workplace, causes accidents and damages and problems for society by alcoholism are indeed huge. What I particularly want to say is that perhaps an increase in tax rates on all alcoholic beverages is one way to provide more money to fight alcoholism and reduce the availability of alcohol. It may be surprising but there is no regional difference in Croatia in the problem of alcoholism. The same is the case in Dalmatia, Istria and Zagorje only drink different drinks. And fellow Glavak, I'd ask you not to apologize to your parents for not knowing what new drugs look like so they don't recognize that their child may have gone on that journey without returning. When a kid gets drunk and comes home his parents sees him drunk, doesn't know if he drank wine or whiskey or beer, it's important he's drunk. Also when he's taking some synthetic drugs, he sees that he's acting strangely. And also to break one story that the reduced anti-drug assets, the total funds are not reduced just differently distributed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104369	Thank you very much. The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104370	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, I'm going to start at the end, so we're not going to say that the funds are just differently distributed, I wish they weren't, I wish they had more. In any case, you have particularly apostrophe of alcoholism, I have read an article that sums it up in three words, Croats like to drink. So what do we do now? You also say you like to drink mine in Međimurje, like to drink these in Istria, in Dalmatia. What do we do now? So it is true, Croatia has a problem with a large number of registered alcoholics, Croatia has a problem with people who do not want to admit that they are alcoholics or that they have a problem with alcoholism. However, it takes years to get there at all. I believe you'll agree with me, and that was my appeal not to take down funds to organizations that deal with prevention and that way. So education if you want from lower grade primary school, so higher grade primary school, high school. The fact is young people view alcohol as something that is allowed because they meet it in their families. When you mention the family and criticized that their parents know when their child comes drunk and that they also see that the child has some disorder if it has consumed some drugs, once again, among the colleagues sitting here and having children they don't even know how these preparations are packed, and even if they find it and look at the declaration on it it will say that it's bath salts or that it's air freshener, that's what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about side effects that parents might recognize when a child in that condition comes home. I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104371	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104372	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues Glavak, also in their discussion and in these numerous replicas, you have specifically potentiated the problem of easy drug availability, so that is indeed a huge problem. Today more in the smelly salts, in air fresheners actually that can be obtained anywhere in the so-called. Smart shops that do nothing like mushrooms after rain, so the problem of easy drug availability is current. At the same time, you spoke and pointed out the problem of non-recognition, so parents don't know drugs. I agree with my colleague Jovanovic who says it's actually not that important that we parents recognize drugs. And you said yourself that there are so many that every day there are hundreds of new minors, so we're definitely going to lose the battle in learning what drugs our kids are using. I think it's incomparably important that we all act, so from our parents to those professionals in certain institutions, it's preventive, so that we create this one atmosphere and relationships that won't produce the need for young people to reach for drugs because once young people take drugs, it's too late for us to bother to recognize which. It's important that we recognize that the child is on drugs. So the child is already a consumer then and then it doesn't really help anything anymore, then we actually have to treat the child. So I point out the importance of health education in schools, I think it's really a real model and the right way to include all the children from the earliest age to draw one professionally close to the harmfulness of drug consumption, one word to raise children through this health education for a life without drugs, of course and without all the other opiates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104373	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jelash, it is true, I have said several times that drugs are easily available and it is true that we need to help those who are dealing with prevention and we need to help our parents. When you mentioned your parents, I'll tell you two cases I know personally. Someone here said that parents are the first ones to recognize or have to point out. No, it was just the opposite. So it was about young people who were heroin addicts, their parents didn't recognize it, their friends warned parents about what it was about, but their parents wouldn't admit it. And then we come up with this data that it's about people between 30 and 35. So those between the ages of 30 and 35 go to addiction treatment, so they spent 5, 6, 10 years in the process, that's the average. So that's what I'm talking about. And once again, I will return to easy availability. Heroin in a public place. 33% of respondents say you can only get it, cocaine, ecstasy, LSD, and not talk about these new drugs that we've all agreed we don't know the consequences of their actions, we don't know how they're put on the market and we can't actually end up with them in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104375	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, colleagues Ljiljana Cvetović and Marija Ilic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104376	Dear Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse is a comprehensive and detailed document. Commendation to all those who have worked on it because they have indeed collected information from all relevant institutions, including the NGO sector. On the one hand, we might be satisfied because we seem to have a situation under control, but on the other hand we see data that are worrying us, which is the increase in the emergence of new dangerous substances and new drugs that are much more dangerous than classical heroin. Although new drugs are listed on the European Drug List, the problem is that new legal opiates are constantly emerging, for which only one modified molecule is sufficient. Even 73 new drugs have been registered in the European Union. The introduction of a generic drug list would therefore greatly help with legal control. Although marijuana remains the most popular drug on the market is the increasingly psychoactive plant and chemical product, synthetic cannabis which has legal status, whose trade is not limited to international conventions and which is mainly obtained via the Internet, and during consumption has the effect of marijuana. Most smoke and roll into the joint, and can be used in pipe, narcil or bong. Research has so far shown that its THC properties on the organism work longer than marijuana. These drugs are wrongly declared so they are sold as air fresheners, plant fertilisers, or bath salt in smart shops. They are available to everyone, their ingredients are not prohibited, so they can be sold legally. Many things and ingredients can be ordered via the Internet. The consumption of new drugs is linked to a special world of young people, places of their gathering and music. These places are mostly discotheques, but also organised group parties that are advertised through photocopied flyers shared among friends and acquaintances. ... party is organized in abandoned spaces, old factories or other abandoned buildings outside populated places where the most frequently played techno music, underground and the like. During these parties, many tablets are consumed, synthetic or new drugs are the most used substances among young people. It is important to know that the consumption of substances of unpredictable reactions causes biochemical and psychological changes different from person to person. These drugs are often prepared by street chemists and local workers and are never reliable with the right composition. Young people mix more substances, mix them up, potentiating both collateral effects and dangers because drug mortality is mostly mixed. On the one hand, we have a problem with substances that are dangerous, but we also cannot limit the freedom of movement of goods. It is simply necessary to see which substances and substances are dangerous, and how their risk is in use, and then limit the ability to use them. Data from the European project of school surveys on alcohol and drugs of international continuous research conducted in more than 40 countries talk about the use and use of psychoactive substances such as alcohol and drugs between 15 and 16 years old. Croatia is involved in this international project, and the results of the data collected show that the number of people entering the category of lifelong consumption of marijuana psychoactive drugs and other drugs is close to the European average. However, smoking cigarettes and alcohol consumption are more common than in other countries. The number of overdrinking students and students is also higher than the average. According to the Department of Prevention of the Zagreb Police Administration, Croatia is 12 places in Europe after drinking alcohol among young people, while, after smoking cigarettes among young people, it has risen to a third place. The moral crisis of modern civilization, the rejection of traditional values, the crisis of marriage institutions and families makes more and more children insecure, unhappy and lost. Consuming legal and illegal psychoactive substances by adolescents has long been a scientific, sociological, political and public health problem. Adolescent will try drugs for different reasons. It is usually curiosity that he feels good, that he is no different from his peers, because of boredom, or to escape from problems, or some unpleasant situation. On the other hand, drugs are available in our midst today everywhere in cafes, streets, parks, unfortunately schools. Consuming one asset encourages the taking of another, i.e. These persons have a tendency to risk behaviours such as smoking cigarettes, alcohol consumption, marijuana or stronger drugs, entering wounds, unplanned and often risky sexual relations, delinquent actions, reckless driving of the car, as well as other behaviours that the adolescent does not experience as high risk behavior. What kind of example do we as adults set if we talk to our child about the harmfulness of nicotine, and we smoke in front of it how consistent we are. If we talk about alcohol harmfulness, and the house regularly consumes alcohol where we have consistency. The young are quite lost, because we speak one thing, and they see that we do another. In the fight against addiction is the most important education. Prevention programmes should take a significant place in all educational institutions. They need to be strengthened since kindergarten. Children need to be taught the right values of life, and maximum design of free time. Teachers, teachers, co-ordinators of school prevention programs play an important role, but the foundation is still family.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104377	She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104378	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. The changes in trends in drug abuse in Osijek-Baranja County, which I threw the accent on, are the same as in the rest of Croatia. There are fewer opiate addicts, and more and more people who consume new so-called. designer drugs that are synthetic psychoactive substances that mimic the effects of traditional drugs. And in our county, the most popular are synthetic cannabinoids. Such things are relatively difficult to detect because they do not yet have in vitro tests that can be obtained in pharmacies. In addition, they are affordable and easily supplied in smart shops that we have heard today in every recent discussion, and through purchase, via the Internet because they belong to a group of easy drugs. Many such products on the market contain mixtures of substances, and due to the lack of pharmacological and toxicological data it is difficult to speculate on the long-term health consequences of their use, although more and more data show that some of these substances cause problems requiring clinical intervention, and unfortunately we have also witnessed a recently fatal case of 15 years old. A major problem in our county is the black market for substitution therapy and its abuse. Namely, some doctors of family medicine are opposed to guidelines and protocol for people who are being treated to issue substitution therapy on their hands instead of being consumed in hospitals One part of this treatment, especially methadone, ends up on the black market and poses an objective danger. In the area of our county, access to drug abuse is organised and the demand for illegal substances is systematically reduced. I have to say the repressive apparatus, especially the official employees of the MUP, is very quick to carry out the activities of detecting and curbing drug abuse-related crime. Thus, heroin and cocaine supply has been significantly reduced in the county area, and marijuana, ecstasya, speeda and other drugs have been significantly reduced. During 2013, 135 dealers were arrested in the county. In the area of the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration during 2013, 183 individual drug seizures were recorded. Most of the marijuana was taken away. The coordination of relevant factors in this area has been established and acts under the slogan "Legating, Not Drugging!". The coordination consists of a number of institutions, so from that kindergarten to those of state, county. And we have to say that schools are actively involved in the work. In the area of the county, it is proud to say, the only association in the Republic of Croatia that covers all areas of the fight against drug abuse, prevention, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, reduction of damage and employment of rehabilitated addicts. It's the Association for Combating Addiction called "NO Addiction". This association is unique in the Republic of Croatia, and operates through counselling, therapy community, residential community, living room for active addicts, and for the employment of rehabilitated addicts have also established a social cooperative. More than 400 people have gone through the rehabilitation and rehabilitation capacities of the organisation. Their expert team, led by Tomislav Misetic, specializes in the treatment of drug addicts, cubes, betting, alcohol as the oldest and most extensive means of addiction, or as people say to domestic or folk drugs, which unfortunately use every day an increasing number of young people, and is particularly worrying about minors. But I believe that the problem with the inertness of the system that the emergence of new kinds of addictions, even though the problem of gambling and betting has been progressively growing since the age of war, we do not yet have adequate and high - quality coverage of that area. We are increasingly facing the problem of internet addiction, social networks, PC games. And we are not prepared for this, nor do we have professional capacity, so here is one to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and, of course, the Resort Ministry to develop programmes to address the emergence of new types of addiction. Finally, it is necessary to mention and say and praise all those who participated in the development of this report as a very important document, i.e. the basis for a more effective solution to this global problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104379	Thank you, too, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104380	We are now going back to the business with which we have stopped it is a debate on the National Strategy Implementation Report and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and Reformer will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104381	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Given that much has been said about this topic today, I will only briefly sum up that this strategy is indeed informative and good, this strategy translated into an action plan is being implemented in the area of our country, in the area of the whole country. Although it can be observed from the results that unequal scope and intensity, a large number of measures unfortunately remained unrealised due to the continued lack of responsibility for its non-implementation. Namely, this National Strategy and this Action Plan, in our opinion, do not have that executive power either in terms of carrying out activities, nor in terms of funding, and these are actually starting to be problems, especially when you see county analyses, i.e. county results. I will not now talk about the types of drugs and about all possible modes that our citizens are particularly exposed to. However, from the conclusion of this action-plan strategy, it is evident that, according to the 2013 figures, trends in drug abuse itself are different from counties to counties. In some counties, it has been able to bring closer to a rather balanced approach to curbing abuse and both the supply and demand for drugs, as said in the strategy itself, has resulted in a stable state, i.e. by reducing trends in abuse. But depending on the financial and human resources of certain counties, but also on the spread of the problem of drug abuse across counties, the county itself created mechanisms, networks, programmes to solve these problems. However, what I want to point out is, and this also shows reports in previous periods, three counties are those in which the largest number of registered addicts are the City of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia County and Istrian County. Compared to previous years, the number of registered addicts recorded in 14 counties is increasing. Now, in 7 counties, the number of addicts per 100,000 inhabitants is higher than the average of Croatia and these are again Istria County, Zadar County, City of Zagreb, Sibenik-Kninska, Primorje-goranska, Dubrovačko-neretvanska and Split-Dalmatia. And the other county has lower rates than the Croatian average. And now given these results, you should definitely put an emphasis on the prevention of those provinces where the growth of addicts is higher. It is particularly concerned that the financial resources allocated from the county budget in 2013 are precisely for the implementation of these county action plans compared to 2012 less by around 2.5 million kuna. That's the problem. The problem is that this action plan is to translate into a truly operational plan in the right sense of the word action plan, especially in those counties where the growth of addicts is greater. And, of course, we will see in the 2014 Strategy, it will likely show what the impact of the decriminalisation of light drugs is, which is done, what will be the result given the decisions we made when we discussed and the legal solutions related to the decriminalisation of light drugs. But I think the next strategy, especially this action plan, should be targeted. Aimed at those counties, those cities, those urban centers that have a significant increase in the number of addicts in our country. Otherwise, of course we accept this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104382	Thank you. And the last club is SDP club and respected colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So I believe we can all agree that drug abuse is a monster of the modern age. And not only drugs, so we heard here during the discussion of many addictions which are not only related to opiates but also to the enjoyment of tobacco products, alcohol, etc. The national action plan and strategy have 6 core areas, which are coordination, reduction of supply and drug consumption, monitoring and information systems, research and evaluation and international co-operation. I'd like to put a special emphasis on prevention right now. It is said that 1 kuna is invested in the prevention of actually 4 kunas saved in recovery. The national programme for prevention of addiction for children and young people takes place primarily in education systems, so in our schools, our universities through physical health culture, nature or biology, classes, civic education and other educational programs that are currently in schools. The education and information of children and young people is therefore priority and it should not only be done through the education system but also work on informing the public and parents but also on all others who can get into touch and the danger of becoming opiate users. Also, the treatment and resociation programme of addicts is extremely important because addicts who struggle with their addiction often have problems finding work when re-entering the community. This is the work of many NGOs, so many NGOs and even a Catholic church, but it is also done by our hospitals, and it also helps to treat our addicts with different treatments. Otherwise, the Croatian average of addicts is 272 per 100,000, which is not so bad. Of course, it would be better if it were much less, but if we compare it to data from other Western countries, Croatia is still relatively low on the list. We hope to keep it that way, partly because of this strategy and action plan. I'd also particularly like to underline the appearance of the so-called. "new drugs." There's been a lot of talk about it during the debate, but they're a big threat, so these new drugs. Due to the rapid appearance of the market, low controls, the most common synthetic origins are therefore poorer quality and have effects similar to that of so-called. "old drugs." I'd like to remind you only a few years ago. I mean last year or maybe a year and a half ago, we had a big panic over deodorphine so-called. "crocodil" which is a very dangerous opiate because it has an effect similar to heroin but has an extremely destructive effect on the body, i.e. addicts at one point are literally starting to fall apart. Of course, it was later explained to us that it was an over-inflated story for several reasons, that desomorphine was coming to the Republic of Serbia, so in the neighbouring country, we were going through immigrants who were coming back from the Russian Federation. In fact, in the Russian Federation, it was the most widespread because of the lack of property, or that drug is relatively available and cheap. In 2012, in the EU, only examples were registered for 73 new dates, and in 2009. 24. The trends in Croatia are somewhat smaller so that in 2013 12 new compounds have been registered and in the last 3 years all 33 in all. In particular, the drug market should also be monitored because the so-called drug market appears with new compounds. old drugs, so drug compounds that are enjoying themselves, which are one minute out of fashion and are returning to what is often not prepared by the suppression system or repression system. There was also a lot of debate on very available drugs, therefore available to minors in terms of air fresheners and similar ones that can be inhaled in different ways, mostly by smoking and also by similar marijuana. So first of all, you need to put emphasis on education and then reduce the supply and demand of drugs on the market. So to reduce demand through education and offer through repressive elements. And to conclude, therefore, drugs and their abuse remain a problem, should continue with a programme with an emphasis on prevention and therefore, even though our brahs are relatively good and let's hope that there will be less in the future. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104384	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna interrupt the session, we're gonna continue on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. Point 13 which is our turn, that is the final proposal of the Law on burial activity. I thank you all. And I want everyone to have a nice weekend. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-13-0.u104385	Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. A year.". Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 98 for and 4 abstentions, have accepted the proposed conclusion.
