ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96180	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, normally in this Croatian Parliament we raise our hands like this because we do not have the opportunity to discuss what is worse in this country, which is this time when I speak for myself and in the name of the HDSSB club, the situation is not only in the Refinery Sisak but the overall situation around INA and the INA-MOL relations, which is really of the greatest importance and strategic importance for Croatia. So please pause as far as you decide, I'll leave it to you, to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament and to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96181	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Branko Vuksic is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96182	And in the name of your club on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96183	About the same subject, okay. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96184	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96185	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar on the same subject, I suppose. And the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. The Honorable Vice-President of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. No more demands. We're taking a break. There's more, Damir Cain, the same theme of a respected colleague? You always have a different topic. At 9.45 we proceed, 10 minutes break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I would like the representative of the HDSSB, the respected representative Bora Grubisic, to state the club's position on the topic they have opened on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96187	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The times of Khuen Hedervary have passed, but we must remind them when we talk about INA and MOL, clearly. However, what is a direct cause is the situation around the refinery Sisak these days, so justifiable fears, protests, meetings about the fallout of the Rafineria in Sisak, but when we look at the overall policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is the 45% owner of the INA, then we also have to discuss here in the Parliament something about because we have attitudes and government and prime minister and vice prime minister over where it seems to me, I will not evaluate from no other angles there is a certain disproportionateity in opinions, one contradiction in opinions. Where it comes out with an attitude that, in some ways and without public borrowing, it could even buy shares of MOL, i.e. INA, from MOL, right. And on the other hand, it's said what's sold, it's sold and there's no more coming back. In the supervisory board of INA we have the chairman of the Supervisory Board, if I have to mention the name or last name, I do not know here the Croatian public should perhaps know the professor of commercial law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb who knows very well the processes in connection with this part of the management in INA. However, we have never heard a single word from the public in particular about how the INA is actually managed and based on a corrupt contract made by the prime minister, former Prime Minister Sanader concluded with MOL. And by no means, here's the fifth time INA and MOL meet to make a deal, there's no deal. Well, it's clear to whom it's to make it harder to resolve, which is aimed at stopping the work of the Sisak Refinery, which is aimed at destroying INA retailing, which now has 16 gas stations in the so-called. The pilot of the franchise project rents some privates to do business, so it's going to be 80 and then finally the four hundred. 80 former Tifon gas stations are owned by MOL, but none of them went to franchise. Why wasn't the experiment, the guinea pig was the Tiphona gas station, but the INAs? Because it's an attempt I don't know what failed, because it's irresponsible behavior towards INA. And that is allowed, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the current board president is silent, our man appointed by Prime Minister Milanovic. So there's a lot of things going on at the destruction of INA and that actually citizenship, except for those in Sisak who are threatening to lose their jobs a little bit of what they know. And the truth is the water is deep around the INA, very deep. And we had a parliamentary commission, Mr. Leko, to determine the facts about the sale of INA and the first part of 25% of the shares in 2000/2004. and this second part of a criminal contract signed by Sanader by giving management rights to those who don't have more than 50% of the shares. And now we have the situation that the biggest and most important, we sold the banks, we sold the energy to the INA, and we sold the telecommunications. What kind of state doesn't have telecommunications, resources, intelligence to say what Mr. Craig would say, for instance, that doesn't have energy and that doesn't have a bank. So we see what's going on with the Swiss, even though it's not a subject, we get it. We're just becoming and I'm not going to, and I'm sorry to say that this is a new form of colonialism that enslaves any country, in Africa, but also in Europe. About INA, we're going to have a lot to say, I'm glad that colleagues have reported in this number that, in this number that's been shown to talk about how INA is also one of the segments that actually does what's called globalisation and is actually neocolonalism. The INA workers received a guarantee from the prime minister, the Prime Minister that they would be taken care of, etc., that's what we heard. Who was in the meeting? They were just a union from Sisak, or headquarters for... But those who know so much more weren't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96188	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96189	But those who know so much more weren't. And just one more sentence. See or read exactly from word to word of Prime Minister Milanovic about the refinery in Sisak, you will see that nothing really stands behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96190	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Club Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96191	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On election night, in the presidential elections, the prime minister mentioned a word of hiducia that may have been inappropriate at that time, but I will now mention hiducia in another context. Just an example of the Sisak Refinery, an example of INA, is an example of the hiducia in which ours were transformed into theirs, how reforms were carried out. Hajducia is one word, and the other is patching. In a hidduk way, there was a conversion of the '90s, a lot of it, and the budgeting due to government incompetence and other things, patching up their own pockets due to grampity. These are two characteristics of Croatian conversion. When it comes to INA, the relationship between INA and MOL, it is quite clear that the contract signed by the governments, first by Racanov and later by Sanader, was played. The most tragic thing about it is that we don't know what's signed, which we fragmentally find out what's signed. First of all, if the contract is a crime, as a colleague used to say, and the Croatian court said it was, then the contract is invalid. The second thing that is, and MOL has played all the promises and parts of the contract that we know about, which are the parts that have been dripped into the public. MOL obviously only wants gas stations and nothing else, everything else wants to shut down. And the question is whether he wants to rent these gas stations just because it's obvious he doesn't want to own it, he only wants to deal oil or gasoline, an oil derivative and buy a profit. Is there therefore a solution, the question is now, should not be cried, what is unlawfully to be processed, we should finally learn from examples of both Swiss and former conversions, and it is clear that the Swiss would do differently in the Croatian state that banks are owned by the Croatian state because the Croatian state would not rob its citizens, I guess. Is there a solution to the INA? There is. As the government intervened in terms of Swiss and had to intervene, so should intervention, many said not market, let not market intervention in the case of INA. 7% of the shares owned by others should be passed a new law and should be prescribed by that law to be sold to the Croatian state, so that MOL has 49%. They say it's not market, we violated market democracy. Market and democracy are two incompatible concepts, we learned that from Chicago school on. We learned that these are two incompatible when it was said that the market would only regulate itself because it is democratic. That's a lie. So, make a deal. Is it not market-based when they have rescheduled citizens or taxpayers of the bank around the world? How come they weren't neoliberal then yelling it was not market. They didn't yell. That's when they said the state needs help because it's the citizens' interest. At the moment, it is the citizens' interest to have the INA owned by the Croatian state, the majority ownership of the Croatian state and the government is obliged to ensure the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. If he doesn't, it's a total betrayal. All national interests are betrayed one by one. I guess the interest of the Croatian state is citizens and citizens to live as easily as possible, but what happens in the INA, what happens in the Croatian banks, the way business refutes that the thesis, is often spoken of by no one from Croatia or the bank, these are Croatian banks, no one will take the roads, but profit will. Profit's coming up. Well, they don't buy roads so they have asphalt. They buy money. So the new INA law, the special law, the purchase of 7% of shares, and Croatia becomes the majority owner. Yes, it is not marketable but is in the interest of the Croatian state and in the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96192	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Mladen Novak. Excuse me, Labourist. They'd say "buyrum" somewhere, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96193	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday during the current morning I opened this topic in some way in this very Croatian Assembly and I think it is never too much to talk about these topics and should speak, all arguments should be made but primarily arguments. The fact is that the annual asset management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia INA is classified among companies that are intended to sell or to buy the part that is not owned by the Republic of Croatia. The fact is also that we have the diametrically opposed statements by the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, of which one says we will buy the shares, the other says we have no money and these are nebuloses. The fact is also, there is no purchase. The owner is always and it is his legitimate right to manage the interest of profit. But one of the owners in 45% is the RH, and it has other interests than interest. The interests of energy independence and the interest of preserving jobs. Unfortunately, I must conclude that both of these interests are clearly not taken seriously by the Croatian government and that our officials are very easy to deal with and make statements. On the other hand, we have a Hungarian side whose prime minister, whenever he performs with a guard, what would our prime minister say yesterday in the protection of their national interests, in the protection of their businesses, businesses that are owned by Hungary. This current situation is such that we have harmful contracts, but for which the government knew when it came to power. We have the situation of two arbitrations, but also during these arbitrations, as long as the arbitrations continue, neither party must make any decision, or the administration must not make business decisions that have a bad impact, that is, damage to the company or question the viability of the company. The fact is that the MOL administration will certainly not make a decision to shut down the Sisak oil refinery for a one-banal reason why in this case they have to resuscitate land which is an enormous cost. But they make such a decision in a completely different way. And what's worst of all in 2009, our politicians knew about it. In 2009, the public started talking about it. In 2010, production dropped drastically, oil processing. In 2013, we have a six-month Sisak refinery running. In 2014, it's only been two months. Aren't those enough indicators? About a year ago, those who are the loudest on the protection of the Sisak oil refinery participated in the talks and arrangements when it was agreed to stop the processing of the Sisak oil refinery and to find some alternative to satisfy the pro-forme interest. But that's what to say. Also, our distinguished prime minister heard some new things at a meeting with INA workers. He's got a home friend, he's got a government advisor, he's got a board president all in one person, and he didn't know it until now. That's some new data to him, some new knowledge. What my colleague used to say about gas station franchises is one trial attempt that he did, and now normally, they're doing it here, they're not doing it to themselves. But it's not the only one. The technology on the wells is the same. There's something going on here that if it turns out to be successful then we know where we're going to use it, and if not, then theirs doesn't go down anyway, ours is going down. And another correction of one detail. They don't need gas stations. They only need the market, only the market and nothing else. And they're that, unfortunately, thanks to our stupidity and we can't blame them because they're legitimately protecting their interests, thanks to our stupidity we've been brought into this position. And now I'm asking you if we do the same thing tomorrow. Just one sentence, please. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] If we do it with the highways tomorrow, then we'll have some future government talking about it, and that's what we inherited from those, so there's nothing we can do about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96194	And to you, Your Honor. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96195	Thank you, Mr. President, good morning, everyone. Well, first of all, it should be determined that when it comes to INA and Rafineri in Sisak and everything we've seen from the current government over the past three years, everything is waiting for something to happen in itself, and then later reacts. And we have also witnessed conflicts within the government and the ruling coalition around INA, so far not about the Sisak Refinery. But all of this together one more time actually just confirms what we're always saying, and that's that there's one thing more important than ownership, and that's who and how it manages. But let's go back to a specific topic, and that's now the Sisak Refinery. The Sisak refinery has always been an object of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and to energy independence, according to all known regulations in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such a facility cannot exclusively serve in maximising profits as much as we all know that about six hundred thousand tonnes of oil that is Croatian oil is if processed in the Sisak Refinery brings this same refinery to the limit of profitability. Thus, there is not a very simple calculation regardless of small quantities, i.e. capacity, which is to lose money at the Sisak Refinery, i.e. in the Sisak Refinery. What should also be repeated here by not knowing which times, it is all said many times, but should be stressed, which is that by the 2003 strategic partner MOL took the obligation to invest in the modernisation of both Sisak and Rijeka. Unfortunately, here we are in 2015, given the state and even the river refinery today when you import oil and that processing in the river refinery is unfortunately not profitable. When we are, another sentence, only when we are at Sisak, and this is one fact of this was also discussed from the INA itself, which is unfortunately at the moment there is absolutely no alternative that has been offered to invest in Sisak and not even close to this employment in the city of Sisak, we all know now there is no time to discuss, in fact, the situation in which the whole city of Sisak and the whole of Sisak County is, since it was once a really very, very developed industrial area and today we are reduced to discussing the very refinery of the INA in Sisak. One more sentence. There's no telling where the Bosnian ship is going. So, a refinery owned by the Russian company ZARUBRJENJEV in the sense that the refinery is making huge losses in view of global movements, all geopolitical conflicts. Therefore, it is not certain that ZARUBRJENJEV will hold that refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which if the closure of the Bosnian Ship actually opens a whole new perspective for the Sisak refinery in the wider area of central Europe. And in the end, only two more sentences. One in general about INA, and this is given exactly what we are discussing today not only about Sisak, we can also easily discuss the refinery in Rijeka but also about many capacities that were once truly the pride of the national oil company, which means exploring gas and oil. Unfortunately, today INA is not what it used to be, and it's a vertically integrated company that could really be dealt with in some markets with many revenue companies today more and more our national oil company is heading towards oil distribution, and it's certainly not acceptable. And at the end of two more sentences, there's one, and there's a request like you know about paying the dividend. We would expect Mr. Vlad and Mr. Milanovic to be crystallinely clearly determined towards the payoff of dividends because given the situation in which INA is located today if part of the payment of the required dividend occurs, of course, there will be no investment. And not only that, that no investment will happen, but actually INA will need to be in charge of paying dividends to the owners, which we will probably all both left and right in this assembly agree that at this point it must be a national interest to invest within the INA and maintain jobs and raise productivity, rather than paying dividends regardless of what the owner wants money or not. So, yes, we're asking the government to plead on that dividend. And in the end there's been a lot of it, but not just today, these discussions are common. I would only suggest that we not accuse others of our problems and our failures. So let's not accuse Hungarians and MOLs, let's not accuse bankers, let's not accuse others of why we ourselves are not capable enough and why we are not doing our job, why the Croatian State does not introduce rules of play in which we would all have equal rights on that market. And let's not, colleague Vuksic, frighten people with the market. So the market is there, it needs to be adjusted but on the other hand, every country, and our country has absolutely enough tools to set clear game rules for all equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96196	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected Vice President of the House Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we're looking for a break for a particular problem, there's never a solution, we're talking about certain consequences. A fellow Milosevic here tried to present some facts relating to the privatisation of INA. I probably have the most facts, and I could talk about it the most because I led an INA sales investigation committee and I'm going to say just a few things about it, and I'm going to tell my colleagues who were talking today to read the Commission's report because it was based on a later investigation of the State's Attorney's Office on the privatisation of the INA. The sale of 25% plus 1 shares with a sales contract is also defined by a share agreement, which is said not to change it, it is in effect for so long as one side crosses 50% plus 1 share, respectively, until the other side falls below 25%. The sale was based not on increasing budget revenues but on finding a strategic partner because at that time INA was not capable of development. Two refineries were to be developed, as fellow Milosevic said, and was therefore defined by the sales contract and the entire 5-year investment programme, which as the biggest investments had the reconstruction of two refineries. Why during these five years, the Supervisory Board, we know who was chairman of the Supervisory Board and who led the Supervisory Board and the Croatian side had the majority, both in the administration and in the Supervisory Board. On several occasions, the Supervisory Board decided on a prolongat of investment time. I read thousands of pages of material that applied to that period. But what happened in the meantime? The defense fund sold 7% of the shares that were transferred to the Defence Fund. The initial sale of shares next 15 to 17% of shares was sold in a way that the government agreed with banks that they credited the purchase of shares to citizens who sold it legally to MOL later on. And MOL legally came into possession of 49% of the shares. At the same time, the contract was changed, an inter-share contract which should not have been changed because MOL did not exceed 50% plus 1 share, nor did Croatia lose less than 25% of shares. So those are the questions. And I'm going to say in the end what my colleague Milosevic said. Let us not blame MOL, it is logical that MOL protects its corporate business policy and profit, and our obligation is to the Croatian state, Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to protect our national interests. How can I tell the corporate part of the MOL at the moment when the management and management of INA and control of INA are in majority, and in the minority country in Croatia how can the Croatian state protect its interests and ask to meet the conditions under which the initial sale was 25% plus 1 share, this would be a way to discuss here and look for solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96198	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the Independent List of Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96199	I'm going to make the same connection to these two last exhibits. Here it means about INA, about MOL that it was a lot. And it all kind of started out I dare say in 2003 when the government then sold the 505 million-dollar edge of Racan those 25%+1 shares with 50% management rights. And I remember in one show how Hernadi mocked us that at the time, remembering those 505 croissants with the line, he offered that amount. So this sale of 505 million dollars for INA belongs to an anthology of Croatian political nonsense, and everything that happened after 2003 in a Croatian criminal event. We have Sanader's trial for those 10 million bribes, on the other hand we have that Hernadia where he was legally released in Hungary, not charged. If someone has acquired INA in an all-out illegal legal business, it is clear that the contract needs to be annulled and that such a contract cannot be qualified in any way. We have listened to the campaign of stupidity that INA is in the hands of 5 Croatian tycoons, but the biggest problem is that there is no investment in INA and that MOL now wants to close Sisakh, and the question is what happens next day with the Rijeka refinery. Why? The capacity of its refineries is 6.5 million tonnes, and the demand on the Croatian market is 2.8 million tonnes. Yeah, the one who doesn't play by market rules and said that's Mr. Milosevic leaving the market. Russia's Lukoil or whatever it's called will certainly not buy INA, this year I see the MOL investing 2.2 billion dollars out of which 60% in Kurdistan and should make it modernise what was promised by contract. INA served in 2007 when citizens enrolled its shares to repeat the elections among other things, citizens earned 20 or I don't know 30 thousand kuna on these packages, and I claim from the beginning that it was a maneuver to give in to Hungarians entirely through the INA. Yesterday I read that MOL is waiting for a new government because it can't talk to this one, which is the insolence of MOL's couple of excellences. The public is waiting mainly for the one in Sisak, which is with jobs, which is with the future of the refinery, and I why it went to the sale of the company that in some way financially carried out the Homeland War. Today we have a set of negotiations that our colleagues have talked about, plus we have two arbitrations, and now the possibility of oil exploitation, gas in the Adriatic clears us nowhere. Well, in the 1990s there was a war, and INA could buy MOL-OMV together in the 1990s, and it couldn't have occurred to anyone at that time because they were such conditions, but already in 2003, it became a hunt. If the Sisak refinery fails 900 people are without existence. Yesterday, the prime minister promised that workers could be calm, and at least I want to believe him, even though I have to admit I'm a skeptic. Yeah, why did we start selling INA in 2003? So it's the modernization. They tricked us. Therefore, the contract should be called into question in some way. We can also talk about the conversion of banks, THT which today has more profits than all Croatian banks combined. Yesterday he disappeared to say DEOKI, today the question is what will happen to Rafineria in Sisak, tomorrow the same fate can happen... cannot be the salvation of some imaginary European projects at this point imaginary around Omis. We were supposed to keep everything safe. We're just where we are today. I'm also interested in what's going on with the arbitration on that criminal contract that's won, how much INA money has been drawn. I remember there was talk that MOL would extract 2 billion kuna from the INA. MOL recently took over Lukoil's business in the Czech Republic, whether among other things with INA funds. All in all, if no one is to blame for this, we are to blame ourselves and the MOL needs to convince and make him what's most important to honor and invest in Sisak or Rijeka, not to be guided by that logic, that one might turn off the other refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u96200	Thank you very much. We exhausted a list of clubs they wanted to talk about. For the sake of the Croatian public, I would just like to say that this is a classic example of how practice derivates regulations and makes rules. Secondly, I would like to say that I would call this practice for the sake of the Croatian public an hour of free assembly of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament. So outside is the Rules of Procedure, but it is a valid practice in the Croatian Parliament. Now we're going to work on a set topic in the agenda. That's it. 5. Final draft law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 785. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Finance Igor Radinovic. Here's a colleague of Radjenović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97041	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here are your colleagues and colleagues, so allow the Consumer Credit Act, i.e. The addition of the Consumer Credit Act is a very short change, we usually discuss laws, amendments and additions to laws, this is only an addition but very important. And what was the theme of these last days you won't believe, but just six or seven days after that big Swiss franc hit, and a lot of it's been said, we've changed a lot in public, and we're going to be changing a lot in the coming days. And I believe that when this law gets your support tomorrow at the vote that it will actually enable a more peaceful dialogue because the problem of borrowing in foreign currency and especially Swiss francs will still burden our situation for a while and I believe that we will come to a solution. Therefore, this addition of the law allows contracts for a credit in Swiss francs and kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs for anuities or meals in regular payment, so only for the anuities of regular credit payments are frozen at a rate of 6.39 kuna for 1 Swiss franc and for a period of no more than 1 year. It means a course like the day before that impact based on the Swiss People's Bank's Decision. The provision also applies to the loan contract which is logical and this is due to this law, in a Swiss loan, so also in kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs which have entered into force, i.e. which were concluded before the entry into force of this law. This retroactive or feedback action, which is likely to be the subject of both this debate and the subject in the public, is necessary and it is necessary and it is an assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is necessary, that it is actually necessary when such exogenous events occur, it is important to strike to protect the right of citizens, constitutional right of citizens to their own social well-being and that their existence cannot be compromised. Therefore, this law provides that the cost of this measure is to be applied to financial institutions, i.e. to a maximum of one-year maximum. the cost, the difference in that rate should be borne by financial institutions. The assessment of the Croatian National Bank is mathematical in the event that the course remains so 1:1 as it varies today, the question of how it will vary today after the publication of the European Central Bank but this is already another topic. So the assessment is that this amount would be 400 million kuna, but I'm saying this is assuming that this measure lasts a year, our goal is not that it lasts a year, our goal is a little shorter but I'll also talk about it in this introductory letter and I believe later in the debate. Let us recall briefly, that is, the Consumer Credit Act, so it regulates consumer lending contracts, conditions and ways of providing services, consumer credit, trustee obligations and credit intermediaries to the consumer, supervision and what is particularly important to protect consumer rights. It was adopted in 2009 and changed all these years and lastly it is on this aspect to protect consumer rights and upgrades. So with the 2013 novels in the term of office of this government, it is precisely better to protect consumers in credit relations with creditors. The law has adopted a series of measures to improve the position of themselves, the lender, determined in which way the loan compensation is linked, arranged the definition of parameters that can be used as a basis for changing the interest rate, introduced the definition of these parameters and for previously concluded contracts, i.e. the maximum interest rate, etc. You remember that this package of laws, we thought at the time that technical nature was at the debate means at the end of 2013, that's when this first financial blow happened, i.e. The increase in the Swiss franc and then we here together, so on a proposal from the Croatian Government, we made a decision on the fixation of interest, so at 3.23%, we built that into this law. At that time, the measure was difficult 500 million kuna and I say the situation of the weaker one was improved, where I say these exogenous blows in this private legal relationship that bankers often like to say the risk always goes to the weaker one and that's why the decision was here and that's why this decision is here today before you. So on January 15th, the media "Francogeddon" and the extraordinary and temporary measure that lasted since September 2011, the decision of the Swiss National Bank to therefore bind its currency to the euro has ceased to apply, the market jumped hard, it jumped, so the franc grew you remember even 9 kuna at one hour, later stabilised on about 18% of the difference or 7.5 kuna, I say I don't know how much today, yesterday it was for lip, two stronger than the euro, in any case the Swiss National Bank's decision surprised all the participants of international foreign exchange markets. And it's really visible from the big oscillations, the announcements were something different. What is the government responsible for? He's making an urgent, quick and clear move. So we're talking about Thursday and Friday. On Thursday, the minister called on Friday morning for all the bankers who were exposed, so 8 banks that gave these loans, talks to them, starts a constructive conversation. The Croatian National Bank is also involved in this conversation, seeking a quick and responsible public reaction between the two sexes there are much stronger statements than it is today, although I can see that today this topic still causes a lot of emotions, but the problem is serious. And I believe that this law, we will discuss it today, allows the framework to come out of the problem that objectively, the financial problems that we have as a society, come out satisfied. So the government reacts quickly, consultations take place, the prime minister calms the citizens on Monday and says there will be a bill, you don't have to worry, don't look at the exchange lists, regardless of the impact on the outside we'll pass a law that will allow us to sit at the table and start a fair game. The motive, the protection of the weaker, the protection of the weaker is this sudden blow, I say, which took place on the basis of the contract was actually headed towards the one who the borrower had all the risks in that case so the recipient of the credit. Maybe the shortest part about what we're actually talking about from the beginning, and in public too, we often have a variety of calculations and let me spend a few minutes on such examples, but let's also talk about global figures that we actually talk about when we talk about the Swiss franc. So we're talking about 50, almost 55,000 parties, 54978 parties that are given. 50% of them, so more than 28,000 are lower than 50,000 Swiss francs. So the credit situation, we're talking about the amount of the credit balance, less than 50,000 has more than half, 50,000 Swiss francs more than half of those loans. That's only 4 billion total. The total debt is therefore 20.7 billion i.e. The total credit on today's kuna is 20.7 billion. That's the frame we're talking about. The next 40% of these loans are up to 100,000 Swiss francs, so a total of 90% of the loans are up to 100,000 Swiss francs, it is cumulatively 11.6 billion kuna. Up to this 20.7 billion kuna, these loans are more than 100,000 Swiss francs, so the next slightly less than 10% of the parties make up almost half of this amount of financial we're talking about. When we talk about the dispersion of certain loans, the largest share is, I was talking about the battery, so the largest share of these loans is from 20 to 80,000 Swiss francs. There's over 50% of them. When we talk about manual dispersion, the biggest part of the loan is between 7 and 20 years, so not too short, too long, has a significant number of larger loans, precisely longer loans than 20 years, which tells us that the problem isn't easy, that it won't disappear overnight. And given the objective possible... in the future of the Swiss franc and in the short and medium-term future, we need to know what kind of problem we have ahead of us and how we try to solve it. Why the protection of the weak? Well, there are a lot of examples in public, there are opposition opinions, we'll probably talk about it today in practice, but let's just say we even gave you math here in the materials that we've prepared as a basis for this law. For example, a Swiss loan taken 9 years ago at 70,000 Swiss francs on the day of the signing of the loan agreement amounted to 315000 kuna in kunas. 9 years of repayment, 9 years of paying off a significant amount of kuna and then the principal is the truth to you God 51500 Swiss francs, means falling from 70 to 51500, but at a rate of 6,39 where we now fix this relationship, in kuna you owe 329085, so you're growing debt, and if you accepted this debt rate based on credit on today would be 388310 kuna. So the person who took the loan 9 years ago to 70,000 francs is in debt for 315000 kuna, neatly repays it 9 years ago, today it's 38,8310 kuna or 73,000 kuna. Is it good, is it fair, is it durable, I leave it to all of you to judge and see, but obviously not looking for the culprit this external blow that happened simply must be resolved and the role of the government is that at least temporarily, this decision is temporary for at least a year to protect the weaker side of that contract, the private legal relationship between the lender and the recipient of the credit. Why do you have a proposal like this about a frozen course? I said intro, we talked last time, we found a solution a year ago with an interest rate, with a reduction in then large interest rates and with its limitation or calculation at 3.23. I must admit that it was also part of these intense negotiations and talks, and the initial proposal of the Ministry of Finance to move forward with that part, so try to ease the position in that part, but in the talks with both banks and the CNB we realized that the proposal also has several shortcomings. The first of them is that then mathematically everyone would be different. So there's been a lot of cacaphony in public, you remember a lot of incorrect arguments, and it's good that the CNB finally came out with the analysis yesterday, and I believe it'll back up on what we're actually talking about, if we went back to interest reduction depending on when the loan was taken, where the loan was taken, how much relations are. People's calculations would be different, someone would get something smaller, someone a little bigger wars, and we'd estimate that would cause further confusion among citizens and not calm the situation. The second reason is we didn't have the same calculation. In fact, the calculation of us and in the CNB was that this amount then from 3.23 to balance things should go to 0.7% of the interest in Swiss. The banks had a different calculation. In this I say the short term when the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister estimated that he must react urgently and stop the nervousness that began to roll in the streets, decided to stop it and to pass this bill. I'm saying we weren't sure about that either. If we were to talk about interest and solve the problem that way we couldn't solve any new disturbance, he'd still be causing a imbalance in that situation, and I'm saying we can expect, no one's a prophet. Franak and the euro went together for about 20 years, now obviously it won't be like that, at least in a short time it won't be like that. I said intro, and today some publications are expected from the European Central Bank, perhaps that will affect the markets. So if we were to go through the interest, we wouldn't solve this problem, and there was a dilemma about whether I say so linearly cut everyone equally so that we could see what it means on every loan equal to or if we took it, some of the banks proposed and we didn't take away certain social criteria and see who and how it is and why he took the loan, whether it was his first real estate, other real estate, how he lives. So parallel with the signing of a new beginning and a chance for our citizens who are in trouble with the implementation of current obligations simply within this common policy we should and should consider all together whether to go linearly into reducing everyone equally or to try to make a model for it to be social and not to be equal to everyone. And that is why we are aware that this solution is not a solution to the problem for centuries and that it cannot do so. After all, banks and credit users are in a dispute. You know at least most of you certainly know that there is both a first-degree verdict and a Supreme Court verdict, etc. And that everyone here is called to that part of the legal process that suits him more. We are aware that the problem with this law will not be solved, but it allows for a kind of time-out, a sort of status quo, apartment by or I don't know which other English term or Croatian would find itself calmly responsible in a calm atmosphere sitting at the table, to talk and to seek responsibility legally first of all clean and as fair a solution as possible because this is what we will insist on. So I say this law allows one framework of a year to be said on the side by our deep assessment of the weak in this relationship there is no dramatic change, that it is possible to sit responsibly and soberly at the table and try to get out is obviously some cost of this blow will happen. The assessment is now based on existing data it's not some special high math. If you have 20.7 billion, the increase in the rate is the cost of any conversion problems and the compensation of that. This whole cost should not fall on, so we need to see and find the arguments, and we finally say and wake up the arguments in the public and more analysis appears and I am glad that the Croatian National Bank and Mr Vujicic came out yesterday with the analyses. We're both public and private, we're talking. I must also commend the bank's co-operation this way because, indeed, at least what I'm doing in the talks has a lot of cooperative proposals. Simply in a quieter atmosphere to spend a solution to the fate of our citizens. So 55,000 games. You know it's just as much family. He says CNB only 4% yesterday. I wouldn't do such an assessment, but it's the fate of 200, 300 thousand citizens. What does that mean for the economy, etc. You all know that very well. But we have to say lower our tensions and put arguments on the table. The problem is ten years old, and not everyone's as I'd say, I don't want to look for the guilty, but they're not all innocent in the process either. Now it depends on the angle of an observer who will say you have an exact... It's CNB's fault, he didn't regulate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second claim is the banks are guilty, they skin us, they cheat us. The third claim is that you were not careful, you must see for yourself why you did not take loans in euro. All these claims can be partially accurate. I say they depend on the angle of an observer watching them. There's a good saying. In the conflict of interest, the argument is not important, so it is likely that those who speak these radical views are too. Has the CNB acted responsibly as a regulator? We saw yesterday appear in the media, those who know it deeper know it, know it before. A comparison with an Austrian regulator that was much tighter, which is as the prime minister said well if I remember correctly which one is on that flyer that was handed over to every potential loan user just as soon as he put a dead man's head. Therefore, a warning has been given that these loans are more risky than other loans, than loans in the euro. The Croatian National Bank didn't shut up, the governor didn't shut up. We've got electronic memory and some footage back then. But if that's enough reaction, I say it depends on the angle of the observer to estimate it himself. The experience of credit users probably and some of you here in which banks aggressively offered their product, this fake product as someone calls it, obviously time has now shown that, that it was not a good product, that it was a bad product. He's offered aggressively, he's offered as he is. Whether the positions of assets and passports were settled until the end and by currency structure and by manual in all banks. The Croatian National Bank claims that they are, it argues aggregately. We'll see if they're all over the banks. That's also the topic some of you have been opening, which some say are political topics. I think we need to see inside what's really going on and there's no reason to see both the time series and all the other relationships whether there were any manipulations. Why not? So the banks on that side were obviously too aggressive and irresponsible towards the angle of some observers. Whether the credit users were the most likely due to this marketing part and the bank’s ability to deceive them. But were they all fooled? Whether some have also calculated, and those opinions will be heard in public. There was then a loan in Swiss much cheaper, you could take it in euro, you could take it in kunas. From actually to somewhere in 2009, these loans were much more favourable in mid-2009. The Croatian National Bank came out today with mathematics that if on today, i.e. the day before this blow calculated which means the average credit is there somewhere if you also took credit in Swiss and credit in euro, so. Therefore, all three sides, including the government or governments that were all acting in the meantime, although I hope you won't understand that defensively. But the government here actually has the smallest maneuvering space of all the others in this private-legal relationship as I learned it from one of the leaders of the bankers. In fact, for the possibility of a reaction is actually this system of goodwill. Was the government active enough, not enough? Have government officials, above all, warned the Ministry of Finance loudly enough both the public and all the participants in the system that these may not be the best loans. You can also talk about it. But I'm saying, this law allows for a kind of break, a sort of apartment by what I said. They are finally more quality, better or at least the beginning of the outcomes of a better quality analysis came from the Croatian National Bank. You all saw it, the bank released them yesterday and publicly. There are 11 pages, there are some charts, and there is probably a deeper reason about it, and it is likely that analysts and economists will be looking for them. So, we're having an approximation and obviously if we're going to have to solve this problem, and we in the government want to solve it as soon as possible. So, the frame is a year, but we want to get to the table as soon as possible and find a solution in the next month, two, three at the most. So, to be based on arguments, based on actual numbers, not on any arguments of force, street or any other method of pressure. So we don't, we admit we don't have an answer to all the questions and we don't have a magic wand to solve it, the external factor is too strong, but we're deeply convinced that this is a good tool to sit together at the table. This tool says no fear and uncertainty of the borrower, so for at least a year no, not fear and uncertainty, you will not be raised by credit wars, you will pay as much as you paid for December but you must come and sit at your table together with your representatives. And anyway, so this proposal helps citizens and this blow that someone has to pay for, I think demagogue would be to say that no one will pay for it, it will be paid by financial institutions for the longest time in a year. Well, that also encourages them to come up with a better and better deal with borrowers. The advantage of this law is to ensure the stability of the financial system. We take it as a givenness, so the financial system, the recovery of the financial system, some of us are already much weaker remembered in the early 1990s by banks. Some European countries, our neighbouring countries, have been rehabilitating banks these days. Therefore, the instability of the financial system i.e. We take our stability as a gift and as a God-given. It is not a small thing and it is not a bad thing that Croatia has survived a stable financial life all this time. Of course, it had its own price, but it's already a whole other topic. And so what's the main benefit of this bill is therefore allowing this stand by story so a stable framework to sit down, to talk, to look for an optimal solution to the arguments. The public debate is quite broad, I am pleased to focus on creative solutions, according to the search for objective solutions that are possible and possible. The debate I attended yesterday was also constructive. I believe that today's plenary session will also show that we can and should constructively discuss and make proposals and that this law will get support I hope most if not all clubs, to say the topic we have and what is the problem, the duty in Swiss, solved in the best possible way. Whether it's forced, agreed or otherwise converted, whether it's in kuna, if it's in the euro that I'm not speculating right now is there's a lot of reasoned saying finally and suggestions from the CNB. It is likely that the parties have already made some proposals but can also make them more constructive. We also expect economic analysts from the institutes to make their own proposals, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow the framework for these talks to be as concrete and as open as possible and as reasoned as possible. And finally, to all come together to the best possible solution or to pessimistically say the least bad solution but I believe that we will find a way to find this agony that obviously lasts, which causes anxiety among both the recipients and the financial market and the entire society to sort out successfully. This law provides a framework for such an agreement and that is why I believe and expect your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97042	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Now we have a set of replicas. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97043	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said in Article 1 that this solves the problem of annuity. However, the fact is that whoever had a loan of 500 thousand kuna until the other day is his principal of 600 thousand. And the fact that after a year, he's going to cut that main by about 20 grand and he's going to be left with 580 grand. This simply shows that this is a short-term, political solution and that a solution to the agreed moratorium that would not get in the course would not be passed by the anti-constitutional law is something that should have offered a far more quality solution. Something that should have forced all the participants in this process, so those who gave credit, those who took credit and the CNB who did not regulate in a timely manner to participate in a reduction. And that would certainly be the most favourable for Croatian citizens. This is how we engage in a legally very debateable decision, not to mention its constitutionality. And it is certain that nothing will be achieved in this way. And that is why the HDZ Club will propose a conclusion, and that conclusion will also be conditional on the support of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97044	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I've said it more than once here, Mr. Schucker, you must have heard it, and we had a good debate yesterday at the Finance Committee, you supported that law there, if I remember correctly, only Mrs. Dalic was against... Yeah, which we didn't formulate back then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I have no claim to say that this, and I think I've said it at least 5, 6 times, that this bill solves the problem of Swiss. Of course, it doesn't solve it or we could have done it. But it is a responsible political state action to quote the Prime Minister himself who had to pull him out at that time and to pull him out in quality, and for that we get on the other hand and international praise and praise to the public. Some countries didn't do it. There's a lot more anxiety in the streets somewhere. Do we really want an incident to happen so we can say, and why didn't you pull it? So, this law shuts down anxiety, closes fear, closes uncertainty in the weaker, I believe Mr. Shucker will agree with me, that the weaker link in this private-legal relationship between the donor and the borrower is the recipient of the credit. According to the contract, all the risk of a credit-receiving course is. He simply has to unload 500, 600, 700 kuna more depending on how much some financial mechanic said here to say so in a Colloquial way in some markets that are far from the Republic of Croatia. We want to protect the citizens from happening to them. But I also say this law allows us to sit at the table. This law allowed the debate to be more transparent. The law allowed the CNB to come out yesterday with a set of proposals on the solution. For 10 years, we've kept quiet, 10 years where it hasn't happened, and we've all been aware, especially we who know more about finances than an average citizen, that there's an objective exchange rate risk. That the Swiss franc is not the same as the euro, let alone not the same as the kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97046	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97047	Dear Deputy Minister, I absolutely support finding a solution to this situation, the solution must be found only I'm not sure that the law, the very law, is the best mechanism. You have a decision of the Constitutional Court since last year and I quote it: "The legislator is not authorised unilaterally to change legal contractual relations and such changes must not withdraw the consequences that do not agree with the fundamental constitutional values on which constitutional order is built." So today or tomorrow, we will pass a law that will absolutely be counter-constitutional and based on the Constitutional Court's decision of last year in the process when it comes to a lawsuit on the Dubrovnik Walls. So the law we passed here last year was suspended. So, please explain why no agreement could be reached under the same terms and conditions with banks without going into legal settlement?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97048	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97049	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt if you listened to me one part of my debate was there exposed. So we talked intensively we talked you believe me. At 10:00 p.m. on Friday morning, 8 banks that were lending, directors of all these banks or most people were talking to Minister Lalovac together with us from the ministry, we talked constructively about the solution. A series of talks held in the prime minister's office has also been discussed with the CNB, etc. There were all kinds of statements in public. I had a press yesterday... talked about it give a little list just five, six days ago like all and suggestions and we'll probably show today in the debate it showed up to the public. The responsible government stops the kaphony, stops the fear, stops the negative situation, suggestions like this. Whether it's constitutional or not constitutional or I wouldn't want to measure with you. But what this government sees as its position and constitutional position is to protect citizens to protect the safety of their citizens and to protect their social stability, which is what we have called for in these arguments along with this bill. Is that from a legal point of view and what constitutional judges are if the objection and come to them were similar debates and... a year ago when we limited interest to 3.23 of the same arguments Mrs. Vesna Škare Ozbolt you could say even when the Consumer Credit Act was passed here and the Constitutional Court did not come to the issue the Constitutional Court was not manifested. Our position is that the Constitution, and besides the government and we all become together... citizens and security of each of these citizens may not be in a problem, everyone is thinking about it, but some are in serious problems and that blow is unfair and we simply stop it this way. We don't solve the problem, we don't say what Mr. Shucker says is a permanent solution, however, we call on everyone to trace what you're saying, all the contract sides to the table to talk about. We'll give them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97050	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Third replica, respected representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97051	Thank you very much, President. The deputy minister said in his statement that around the cost is about 400 million kuna. Well, it would cost 400 million kuna to get about 10% of the citizens back on their loans, but we estimate that they would pay a lot more, so the cost would be real today, because when you wrote the material the difference is 18%, today 20.9% of us would be 4 billion and 326 million. However, banks have avoided risks and assets and are balanced. But I'm asking, what was the governor doing or the governors in the past year, and why is the course really fixed at 6.39 and not at 5 kuna? Because we all know during the 2008 credit expansion, 2009 is exactly the largest part of the loan raised during that period and the people who raised today are in debt slavery. We in Croatia work for kunas, we don't work in Croatia for Swiss, but it turns out that according to this and the governors, but also the government's presidents bypassed this burning problem, and now that people in debt have to make a decision. And I believe that most of this Croatian Parliament is very much a decision to make today. However, I believe that a common language should be found if this particular cost can be reflected in the next year on the Croatian budget and should be spoken of today, but it is certain that all actions should be taken so that Croatian citizens can live as normally as possible and as normally as possible to serve their obligations as foreign banks, and we know that 96% in Croatia are foreign banks will have no mercy on our citizens either, but also against our Croatians. So once again, let's think about whether it's time for a legal solution to be found, and this is also today on one of the very traces of this, a single pressure to finally solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97052	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97053	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with your last statement that this proposal is about creating one and a kind of pressure to come up with a solution to that problem and that is why I believe Mr. Bubalo that you and your colleagues will support this bill. You asked rhetorically what the governor was doing all these years, you're going to have to ask the governor who is supported by and this House when there's an annual report on the CNB, you're going to ask him. I was speaking in my debate that according to mine, I may have gone one step further, from what the proposing's mandate to say was to present one of my own and even semi-personal visions, it was not in any way concluded by the Government, but in this process that lasted ten years around the Swiss and about that product that was not on the healthiest legs looking for the mildest expression all these 10 years were partially closing their eyes. Who's more or less guilty of it is depending on the angle of the observer. Why is it a fixed course at 6,39? Well, because that's the way he was the day before this general blow. So everything lived that way normally. The governor came out yesterday saying let's check those numbers that the loans that are up to that day are approximately if they're taken... For 10 years, I don't know exactly what example I haven't been able to look at in detail that about the same amount in kunas as it would have been... in foreign exchanges, so by 2009, the users of credit in Swiss were in plus, after that in minus, but that was reported in those 10 years, yes or no, I believe and I have to trust the governor. When we talk about the cost of 400 million kuna then that cost of 400 million kuna goes, goes to stronger, goes to financial institutions because the course today I don't know what, 7, 7, 6,39, the assumption of anunities in this year is 400 million kuna on the cost of financial institutions if it takes a year, if it comes before that cost is lower. And these 4 billion are waiting for us, yes and depending on the course, so that's the problem, that 4 billion is the problem and how it's going to be solved and divided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97054	Thank you, too. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97055	The question we need to ask is who the state exists for. Which is why there are state institutions. They used to tell their colleagues if it was constitutional, what would happen if the Constitutional Court collapsed. So I ask why the Constitutional Court does not decide when to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Four years ago, Mr. Yakuš gave an assessment of the constitutionality of the foreign exchange clause, 4 years ago the Constitutional Court is silent because it is necessary to protect Croatian citizens, it needs to be brought to justice. Another thing that, four years ago, I held a press press in front of the Croatian National Bank entitled "The village burns and the grandmother combs." All the media transmitted it, we asked for a debate then at the Croatian Assembly on the abolition of the foreign exchange clause. We asked for a debate afterwards, in this session, a debate on the suspension of the foreign exchange clause and warned that everything that was happening today had been warned before. No one wants to protect the citizens. It says here, there should be bank stability, there should be CNB stability, there should be stability of all institutions except the stability of citizens. Citizens moan, citizens can't pay their loans anymore, they can't make ends meet, but the rest of them need to be stable. We also know the states that have agreed to the collapse of banks and today they are 10 times more stable than the Croatian state. What are we talking about? My thesis was, I said it four years ago, with no mention of the name of this other man, Mr Rohatinski and Mr Vujičić brought more harm to the citizens by just a bad policy than the Homeland War, than is aggression in Croatia. And you can see that today. What kind of state is that where citizens are afraid of every day that's gonna happen to them in the morning?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97056	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97057	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well Mr. Vuksic, this was more of a debate than a replica of what I said because you just answered me better than I did in the replica, actually in response to Mrs. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt's replica. Yeah, well, this bill protects citizens, protects, there's a contractual relationship that's tough, which generally doesn't change, in normal circumstances, that I don't use some legal terms right now, so we get into this relationship, in all the risks that I say on the legal side can exist, but we're aware of that, but we're also aware of our constitutional roles if you want us in the government, and I believe in the Parliament to protect these very citizens. We protect the citizens. If we hadn't done anything, that we'd waited for everyone to agree together, like we'd all been together for 10 years, waiting for the court to make arrangements, that the courts would settle, so you remember first-degree, then the Supreme, so that I wouldn't go to that, there's no solution. Frank sued the banks, the banks didn't give a solution, if we'd waited, it wouldn't have been good. If you don't accept this decision tomorrow, the credit rates will be 20%, 23%... It's bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that you will accept this decision and that we have a stand by, that we have the status quo and that we tell citizens, the users of the loan no, you are weaker on that side, temporarily freezing that relationship. And we're doing everything possible to bring up dialogue, on sound grounds, on reasoned grounds, on as fair a solution as possible. But let's all make a contribution to that solution. Here from these existing replicas I'm interested in and what we're going to hear on behalf of the clubs, it's already seen, at least I'm so indirectly figuring out how good this decision was to stop the different thinking, i.e.. stop the consequences of these different thinking and... So we're going to freeze the course, freeze the relationship, and then we're going to sit at the table, in a serious, reasoned atmosphere, looking for a solution to the problems that objectively exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97058	Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97059	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy, I'm going to look back on your part of the show where you said the problem was 10 years old and not everyone was innocent and the banks were offering an aggressive fake product. And indeed today, whoever has a loan in any currency has a problem and a state that has loans has a problem. Right now, we're talking about Swiss francs and people who took these loans and really need to help these people. However, that claim of yours also fits another group of loans. A group of credit users who come to me annually and this year have often spoken to me about famous loans raised in Raiffeisen cooperatives in Austria. These loans are counted in thousands of users, hundreds of millions of euros and billions of kunas. This property is leaving daily, and I think it's a chance that today when we talk about state moves, it's a responsibility to look back at these problems and say what the state can do here. Because these citizens are self-organizing and trying to solve their problem. However, they face resistance in all institutions. Maybe not all of them, maybe it doesn't go fast, but the fact is that the day these properties leave. I can't come up with a solution to my problems even though they've spoken to all the institutions, most of all to the DORH. We know that in Austria, certain procedures have been initiated against those who gave such loans. We know that these loans have not been paid to the state budget. So I'm asking you now, are you as statesman as you now claim and responsibly ready to take a break and for these credit users until the state solves what can be solved on this matter, until it determines the facts and until it tells what is finally the solution for these people as well? Here, I'd like to ask you an answer to that question. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97060	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97061	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Boric, here we are opening another niche, another leg to say the problems, the financial problems in this country. The subject of this law is duty in Swiss francs. What you're saying is a much more complex story and when you mention DORH and when you mention institutions, I believe that, of course, I do, but I believe that the most important part of both the public and the assembly is not known because this problem could not break through many and media blockades, except for everything that we have here today, and here is the most important item of the agenda, so we found something even more important in an hour. What was I gonna say? Anyway, here, let's put it all on the table, this is a much more complex problem, it can't even be solved by this law. You can see that there are many complaints and in this way the solution is unconstitutional, etc., we certainly cannot resolve it this way, but it is certainly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance want to talk about, to clear up in all fields of maximum financial relations. Well, if that's what this government did, then that's exactly what it did. Well, didn't she just do it right here in the end line and with a new beginning and forgiveness of debts, didn't she do it with a reprogramme for the economy three times, right, Mr. Linic, three times this government proposed reprogrammes and built them in that field. Didn't we do everything through pre-warrant settlements to get the economy, that precisely those baukks, the lags we've been getting rid of for years. Yeah, we do, but we don't even have a magic wand we have to admit, we don't have a magic wand and we don't have any expectations that exist in public. Just look at yesterday's "Open" so you can see what people are suggesting, so we can't exactly expect some unrealistic solutions. So we're trying, we're building, this move is good at this point, I believe it'll confirm tomorrow's vote, that it's just reasoned and healthy sitting at the table. This problem you're talking about involves other countries, etc., but...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97062	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97063	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy, so you said the problem is not simple, it is complex, not all innocent, are neither naive nor this bill is essentially preventing what is key, preventing speculation, uncertainty and uncertainty of Croatian citizens and that is what this law is about. Key. Just because it's all complex and it's not easy and because it needs a table seat, it needs to be analysed, this law prevents what's key, which is what the government is in charge of, which is to prevent speculation, to prevent the uncertainty and uncertainty of citizens. And regardless of the potential or lawsuits and debates and playful analysts and debates and mathematics what and how, this gives the Croatian citizens the security of which the decision of the Swiss National Bank has taken into uncertainty. And the government only does what is necessary, and this is its job and I believe, of course, the Croatian Parliament that will respond in this way. And these are basically the key things and messages from both your debate and this proposal. And this space of security that you get in a year, to sit down and discuss and that everything you said, not everyone here was innocent of you sitting down, to put arguments and to find the best solution in the interest of who, Croatian citizens, because both us here and you and the government are in charge of taking care and taking care of exactly and just about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97064	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97065	Your Honor, Deputy Minister, you said the government reacted responsibly and urgently these days. Your finding would be correct if we disregard three essential facts. The first important fact is that the Croatian National Bank has assisted and assisted banks in Croatia for 10 years to bring a large part of the citizens into debt slavery. Secondly, we would be right if we had forgotten or ignored that this particular government, Mr. Radenovic, wrote to 4 June 2012 in an explanation of the refusal, suspension or ban of the foreign exchange clause, quote: "Will the contracting parties agree on the application of the currency clause depends on their goodwill and choice? Such a clause is not imposed even by regulation because it is not forcible but for dissuasive purposes.". That would be true if there were no offers of non-cubic loans in Croatia. When euro loans were sought, the bank declared the search party incompetent, but were creditworthy in Swiss. And final, 2011. The European Central Bank is sending a written warning to the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, quote: "Decree the use of the foreign exchange clause to reduce Croatia's vulnerability to possible rapid changes in the exchange rate developments in the financial market.". 2011 It was an emergency, responsible reaction by both the CNB and all governments so far when it comes to the currency clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97066	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97067	Thank you, Mr. Lesar. So I don't want to answer on behalf of all governments so far, I think in my opening part I said that all the stakeholders, as it's popular to say today, are carrying their share of guilt. The government may or may not have governments before us have the easiest maneuvering space, but if anyone did say it does this government, it does even according to the interpretation of some MPs and one part of the public in a constitutionally questionable way, but yes, it wants to do so to protect the citizens. It protected 2013, therefore by intervention in the same law through the restriction of interest. It protects and now, seeks a solution, calls and appeals to sit at the table and to find a solution in the final line as well as in this opinion, which is written and legally correctly written in the final line in this private-legal relationship of the two sides. Why and how the CNB didn't do, why I'm using this bad enough product for a third term now, and we're all aware of that today, and some of us had to be aware when it was introduced and being louder in my own court to say how unquality a product it is. Why didn't he do it? I don't know. Here, I don't know. You must ask active participants then of these events. Everyone's got answers to say yes, we said it twice on the show, we said it in the Parliament. The truth and God is not my job to defend the current governor, the then deputy or vice governor. He said that in this assembly, we have footage, electronic footage. We have every year a report from the Croatian National Bank. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee if I am not mistaken for the election and appointment of the Croatian Parliament with the consent of the Committee on Finance. I don't know what article of the CNB Act. So if I were being rude right now, I'd say here's your fault, and all of you. You named him and such a governor, of course I'm cynical now. But let's not ask for guilt, let's go look for a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97068	Thank you, too. The next replica of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97069	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Radjenovic, you have used the word of Croatian citizens countless times here. I would like to correct you, remind you that this law does not apply to all Croatian citizens who are debtors. There are Mr. Radenovic, Croatian citizens who have lost their jobs, who do not work, who, for example, have loans in euros. Proposing a law that intervenes in the course, proposing a law that is directly contrary to four other laws that say that in Croatia you have to answer the question to Croatian citizens who have loans in euro why and for them, there is no law that would say that they will pay their Euro loans in the next year at some rate that suits them. Mr. Rajenovic, this problem of the Swiss franc's appraisal is a big problem and it is certain that the government cannot stay aside and ignore it. But legal intervention in something that could have been settled by agreement, and yesterday we heard it on the board that it was possible to open this issue aside from this previous issue and the possibility of the state being sued and that at the end of the cost of what you are here to defend the salaries not of banks that allegedly voluntarily wanted to pay, but of all Croatian taxpayers. You, by this law, have brought the state to the possibility that she, or the taxpayers, ultimately bear the costs of all of this. And finally third. Isn't it time for Croatia's economic policy to stop running the Constitutional Court? So why should the laws of a lawsuit be forced out of justice in the Constitutional Court if there is a clear understanding here that the danger of it is very great because the provisions of this law are contrary to many other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97070	Thank you. Replication response, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the more the debate goes on, the more I'm convinced that this is a really good proposal, because when the waist, when the former finance minister says this isn't a good suggestion, that I was working here, I apologize if I was doing the wrong quote that we're helping the citizens. Yeah, we're only helping part of Croatian citizens. With each of our proposals, we only help part of Croatian citizens. You cannot help all Croatian citizens at the same time. And when you determine the budget to go to the Department of Defense, then, by your interpretation, you indirectly depecate the Ministry of Agriculture or someone else. Therefore, every Croatian citizen is important to us and these 55,000 loan users are also his 200000 families. Why didn't Mrs. Dalic tell you? Are they affected by this blow that no one in this assembly in this country is guilty of? Yeah, it's people overnight, just these people, just those 59,000. One dictator said the death of a million is statistics, and the death of one is a tragedy. For each of them, it's a tragedy because overnight his credit went up and no one in this country is to blame either Milanovic, Karamarko, or Vujicic, or you, or me. It's nobody's fault. It happened. It's our responsibility to make this move. This does not prejudge the final story, we do not underestimate the euro loans and the danger of changes happening on that side. We're also considering, we want the sides to sit at the table, talk about social issues as well. I also talked about the introduction whether social, whether linear to everyone. I am also thinking about these citizens that your former counterpart, Boric, was talking about in terms of the party around these cooperatives in Austria, etc. Well, of course we're thinking about every Croatian citizen and we want to do it. Why do you say this doesn't matter, I don't know, on your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97072	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97073	Thank you very much. Your honor, Deputy, you were wondering who was responsible for this situation? A lot of them, but there's no question of who's responsible for this. If the responsibility for maintaining public order and peace is for the MUP and the deviating police in the banking sector, the CNB is responsible. Commercial banks must reduce the risks to a minimum. It's not the Las Vegas banking sector. And for toxic products if they occur, it is solely CNB that is responsible. And since you're already solving this problem in a way that determines the exchange rate, what you're going to do if you're going to do the day before tomorrow, and that's very possible for the exchange rate to be 8.39 or 8.60 and so many people have loans to the euro. What if the dollar is 6.29? There are even contracts tied up in dollars, what are we going to do with them? ... And it can fall and we'll damage the banks. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one in a credit relationship should be suspended, neither the bank nor the credit user. You should be careful there, both ways. That's why I'm pointing the other way around. And what is forgotten for the population in Croatia for many years has a much greater amount of savings than total loans to that same population. It means that the Croatian people are a net believer of the banking system in Croatia. And then even for that situation, he gets punished and responsible. It seems to me that in that banking system it's long since faded, and perhaps even a missing empathy-thinking being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97074	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97075	Thank you very much. Just one sentence, I've kept the point to Mrs. Dalic's debt. It is not true that the consequences of this law will be borne by Croatian citizens. He'll be carrying financial institutions, it clearly stands, 400 million kuna... Is that a good solution or not? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The consequences of this law go to the burden of financial institutions so that it is clear, and it does not harm citizens and it opens a framework to talk and see where with this bigger problem. You understand that very well if we go around the conversion and we go back. So all the solutions are good, but let's all read together the messages sent by the CNB. Mr. Maric, I have to admit he's stable in his criticism of the CNB, but there's a lot of it there or almost everything is smart in these 11 pages that they published late last afternoon, and that's probably the consequence of this pressure that finally came out and we're going to keep publishing. So let's talk about it. There's a lot, a lot of exact stuff, and they're right about a lot of things. And I say, and as I said in the opening debate, depending on the angle of the observer, we'll look for the culprits. I'm saying, I'm taking off your hat on perseverance because you're really looking for the culprit and for a lot of other things really in the CNB and in the management of the CNB, persistently and persistently. But I don't know if you were in the hall, I also quoted the Law on the CNB, the head of the CNB elected the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Appointing and with the agreement of the Finance Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97076	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Vice-President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go. ... Do any of the representatives of the board want to take a word for it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97077	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The problem of the credit user with the currency clause in Swiss francs is not from today, nor since yesterday has been a little more years, there somewhere when the Swiss franc's growth rate began significantly compared to the Croatian kuna. The abolition of the extraordinary and temporary restrictive measure of the Swiss franc against the euro, which was declared by the Swiss National Bank in Croatia on 15 January, caused an explosion of Swiss franc exchange rates compared to kuna. In just a few days, the exchange rate increased by more than 20%, causing panic among those who have such credit because in the short time their rate has increased in these few days by 20%, and during the period of use and repayment of credit there since 2004, especially those who have long-term loans, housing loans over 60%. In such a situation, I say the real explosions on the financial market as regards these currencies, the Government and the Parliament have the right, they have an obligation to intervene urgently and create opportunities for further talks on the long-term solution to this problem in a peaceful atmosphere. Therefore, not only at this time of credit, which is linked to the Swiss franc, but it will open up a far wider debate which has already opened through these replicas all credits related to foreign currency. And just to repeat what the supplement of the Consumer Credit Act brings, it fixes the Swiss franc's course to 6,39, and it transfers exchange rates to credit institutions. According to the available data, the credit situation with the currency clause in the Swiss franc is 24.3 billion kuna. It's mostly placed on the population, about 92% of that amount. Their purpose is 93% of the amount for housing needs, which means long-term loans with a maturity of 20 years or more. This kind of loan, according to the available data, is funded by about 58 thousand housing units. And out of the total amount for foreign or foreign loans, over 50% has a currency clause in the Swiss franc. It may be necessary because it is often spoken and conversion is needed, and it is not said what is the cost and why currency clauses were introduced into Croatian loans in the first place. It is the result of the structure of saving the Croatian population not only in these last 25 years but also in earlier when it is allowed for the population to have open foreign exchange accounts in banks. This was also the consequence of high inflation of the domestic currency at the time, but also of the evidence from abroad from our workers working in European countries. Citizens' foreign deposits in banks have never fallen below 65% of total citizens' deposits, today say about 70% of total citizens' deposits are moving. In other words, we have a chronic lack of kuna as a source of banking sources for lending. Bank sources are in the largest part of the foreign currency which "homed" lending to the currency clause, so when we talk about conversion we must also look for solutions how this huge cost of conversion of credit with a foreign currency into a domestic currency as fair as possible and as painlessly as we can redistribute. The introduction of the Swiss franc as currency credit clauses for information from the banking system introduced banks in Austria sometime in the mid-2000s and in Croatia, so their exposures in Croatia. And when we look at how the French course was moving, then we can come up with a reason why it was actually mass-accessed housing loans related to the Swiss franc. Looking at CNB's data on average annual Swiss franc courses then in 2005, he was 4.74 kuna, stagnating either slightly or growing by 2009 when he finished his course at 4.91 kuna. The rapid growth is 2010; the average rate then is 5.93, already next year 6,19. So over 20% of the average rate is one year's growth. And how fortunate that a long-term solution for such loans began in 2000, however, there was still hope that the course would not explode and that it would thus slide, and that the Swiss People's Bank was trying to regulate the course of the Swiss franc, of course from its national interests. However, part of the solution has just begun to be sought in 2013 in order to fix interest on loans related to the Swiss franc currency clause to 3.23 which has to some extent facilitated or reduced the annuities for such loans with respect to the consumer credit law which entered into force in early 2014. I have already said that bankers today argue that the introduction of francs as foreign exchange clauses is due to the introduction of such credits in Austrian banks, however, it should be said that the Austrian central bank has obliged its banks to fully inform creditors of all foreign credit risks and thus this related to the Swiss francs, which our banks have not already done in the great competition, have advertised these credits and less-performing creditors about which something is said in this CNB report, and I will say something later and later on. It is good that the CNB governor finally announced yesterday, providing some facts about these loans and about the possibilities of a solution and their consequences, which facilitates today's decision on exactly this legislative temporary measure, because the solutions that are possible have high financial consequences, and they must be sought in a peaceful and prudent atmosphere. That's why I'd like to draw a few points in this CNB report when it comes to this problem. Point 4 states that the debtors with the obligations in the francs, on average, had not paid more wars on average so far than they would have paid if they had initially committed themselves in euro. This is explained in a way that when the French exchange rate is maintained at 6.39 kuna and the interest rate at 3.23% of Swiss franc loans on average would not pay a significantly higher amount than those with loans related to the euro. At the same time, it is said that this was also said by the deputy minister that around 4% of Croatian families have such housing loans, but it also said that part of the debtors with obligations in francs represent debtors of very weak and questionable credit abilities. In such cases, banks must take the loss that follows as a consequence of the business risk. So this is also the reason that more citizens went to such loans because they would probably not be able to borrow under other conditions. What I think is given through even I think 5 options how it is possible to solve this problem or 5 approaches to solving this problem proposed by the CNB is a very interesting option under point 5 and that for one part of the citizens who have these loans and perhaps loans related to another currency could be realised. It is said that without legal interventions in relations, a package of regulatory tax measures should be designed which, without the use of bank budgets, would be further motivated to address this problem with financially stable clients. So you're talking here about the possibility of taking over real estate, giving them into long-term lease, and through that solving actually one part of the credit debt. All options at this point can be opened, the law could be to say a lever that will ensure a peaceful atmosphere that this problem begins to be solved. But at the end of my time, I'd say two more things. In two major banking crises in Croatia in the 1990s, the Croatian state invested huge funds of taxpayers, i.e. the state budget that still burdens us today with the recovery of Croatian banks. The resolution also ensured that strategic partners could be sought to capitalise on our banks and ensured the stability of the banking system in Croatia and in the time of the major financial crisis when major global banks either collapsed or came into major problems and countries tried to save and resuscitate them in different ways. We therefore believe that even today's owners who have come into possession of stable banks, who have provided, who were safe and in these turbulent times of the financial crisis, are obliged to meet their committees and then, in agreement with the State and the Croatian People's Bank, to find optimal solutions to address such a problem. Of course the SDP club will accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97078	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honored Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97079	Dear fellow Zgrebec, because of the public's great interest on this subject, I will simply point out with my replica that the claim or the often repeated word that these amendments to the law protect citizens who have loans in Swiss is not correct until the end. In fact, the law proposed by the Government does not apply to loans made in Swiss francs by citizens such as OPG, agricultural family economies, craftsmen, or free professions. Secondly, this law and the freezing of the franc rate do not apply to loans greater than one million kuna or to operating lease loans, or to loans concluded with investment companies. Therefore, there are 15 exceptions to the application of credit arrangements related to Swiss or any other currency in this law. It refers only to the loans of ordinary citizens in the Croatian banks. Furthermore, it does not apply to those loans related to the Swiss franc that citizens have in Raiffeisen cooperatives simply because they are not concluded on the territory of the Republic of Croatia but unfortunately the implementation of these loans is carried out in Croatia. With the exceptions that I have now listed and the fact that in the euro and the dangers of new exposures in the euro we are not discussing at all again, we will lead to a new inequality of citizens before the law. We need to intervene, but honestly we have to say, we're only intervening for part of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97080	To the reply of the esteemed vice president of the House, the esteemed Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97081	My colleague Lesar, I agree with you, I didn't even say that we solve the problem for all citizens, we don't, not even those who are related to the Consumer Credit Act, we don't solve the problem, but we just give it a time to say that they try to solve these problems in the long run. Some of these citizens have, they have to pay for more than 10, 15, maybe more years. And when it comes to not getting rid of everyone, so of course it doesn't solve everyone because it only applies to the Consumer Credit Act, so it only applies to citizens. And these citizens are out of a total of 24.3 billion kunas of such loans to them are 21 billion. So the majority of the loans that are related to the Swiss franc will thus be given the opportunity to resolve, to give time to find a long-term solution. And certainly when a debate like this opens that it will have to look for solutions for all loans that are related to the currency clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97082	Second replica, Honorable Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Zgrebec, there's been a lot of things in this previous debate in the form of replicas, I've been offered two things that you've said. It's true, the problem isn't from today, absolutely certain. But, of course, there's a question of why they let themselves pass, here's this government, for three years without trying to do anything. That's one question that is necessarily imposed. However, there is another question that concerns what you said should be reacted hastily. Absolutely, I think we all agree that a hasty response should be made, but the key question is how. Be hasty to react in such a way as to help and stop the situation and to find a more permanent solution at this time. Unfortunately, this law does not find a permanent solution, it postpones it for a year and the problem actually comes to the next government which will have to bear the cost, find the means to compensate for it, and there is the problem and there is this difference. We think that this should be binding on all participants, both the CNB and the Government, within a reasonable period of 3 or 4 months, etc. that they must find a solution, not that this solution is required for a year, and then someone else will actually have to suffer the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97084	The replica corresponds to the respected vice president of the home of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97085	And in the opening statement and in my presentation on behalf of the club we're saying it's current, it's not a solution at all, it's the current option how to even open talks so that we can talk in a calm atmosphere about it. This government has already solved a credit problem in Swiss francs when it fixed interest at 3.23. In 2010, when it also exploded by over 20%, nothing seemed. That's why they're hoarding up and growing, and people are paying off credit, and the principal's not gonna stagnate, it's gonna grow. I think that banks will very quickly start looking for solutions and business banks and the CNB and the government precisely because according to this law the bank would, at the current rate when this law was written annually, lose 400 million kuna, with each day the rate growing more and more. They are in the interest of finding a solution urgently, and the law can last a month if a long-term solution is found.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97086	A new replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97087	Thank you very much. I've applied for a replica of Mrs. Vice President Zgrebec's presentation, but I'm going to say something in the end about what you just said in the replica. In fact, it was 2011 when the same situation happened and it's not true that the government did nothing. We signed a memorandum that I remember with 8 banks, fixed the Swiss course at 5.8 kuna, opened the spaces for so-called. A balloon and so on, but there'll be time to discuss it later. However, what I wanted to agree to is that the Government and the Parliament must, of course, react in such an extraordinary situation. I agree, and that's not a solution of course, it's just the current localisation of the continuing fire, so the fire continues to rage, but we localize it and I support it. However, I would like to say that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government are not the only pillars of government that have to do something. Certainly both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, so the third pillar of power, we expect a final ruling of the Supreme Court because we know that a verdict has been made at the High Commercial Court which clearly states that it is a corrupt and unfair contractual obligation. So the Supreme Court should make a final decision as quickly as possible, regardless of what it will be, but I also believe that no one will take this as a pressure on the judicial authority, but also the Constitutional Court which is not part of the judicial authority, however, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are important in regulating life, real life in Croatia. So for 4 years, the Constitutional Court has not made a decision, regardless of what it was about the currency clause and if it were, it would probably be easier to make our decisions today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97088	Time. The replica corresponds to the respected vice president of the home of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97089	Okay, maybe I got it wrong when I said she didn't do anything. You reached an agreement, something similar to what this law proposed, so you fixed the course and the banks were calm. They could later, they didn't have any problems that later that course was still growing, so it wasn't fixed at 5.80 or as far as you said by now, it grew in the meantime. I'm pushing for this law to be passed just so it's a pressure on the banking system to look for solutions, not to get smudged, so we're going to have them now, and now they're proposing 3+3 months to fix the anuity, to freeze the anuity. And what if a solution is not found, and they can find a solution in 10 days, in a month, in two months, or they will wait a year, and they will pay the cost of no more than 400 million but ask God how much the course will grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97090	New replica, respected Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97091	Dear fellow Zgrebec, you said our banks, which is true, you repeated what Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, our banks did not warn citizens about the possible consequences of taking credit in the French, and let's say the Austrian banks did so. What did the Austrian banks do that for? Because their central bank ordered them to do it, what they had to do. What was our CNB doing? Nothing, she didn't do it, and we spend the whole time talking about who's responsible, who's responsible. The highest responsibility borne by the CNB is the highest responsibility borne by Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski, who was then named the best governor and man to be the future prime minister. The bankers have already pushed him into the prime minister's seat. And now we say we don't know who did it, that they did it, and his right hand was Mr. Wolf. They are the culprits, they have turned into black Croatian citizens. Four years ago, when we had this press release of the foreign exchange clause within an hour, Mr. Rohatinski, who otherwise did not appear to such small people as myself, mocked the initiative within an hour and many economists in a few months at the Economic Forum in Opatija recommended to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to start thinking about abolishing the foreign exchange clause. In five months, Mr. World Governor changed his mind. I guess he's been consulting with the banks. Therefore, the role of the Croatian National Bank is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97092	And this replica corresponds to the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97093	I have no reason to defend the Croatian National Bank. They warned by mouth, here we heard that in one report the deputy governor was doing so. As much as I remember my colleague Shuker as he was a minister, he warned of such loans. So loans that are far more favourable than some other questions why they are. Or, for example, savings when someone gives you enormously high interest compared to all others, you must also take it with caution. I have this flyer that the Austrian banks had to give to the borrowers. It's called foreign credit risk information, so he's talking about what a foreign exchange loan is, what a risk he's taking. What five? It even lists five rules to be managed when taking the foreign exchange credit, etc. You can't ask me now why the Croatian National Bank didn't do it in Croatia, but it's a question of why, for example, what was said here when our citizens in Austria took such loans in their savings banks should have asked them if they got a flyer like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97094	A new replica of the esteemed Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97095	Thank you. So here's my colleague Zgrebec I'm interested in, you know more, if you know everything, I don't know, but it would be interesting what you think about whether our Croatian banks really are in charge of this amount that they present to us today to their parent banks, since it is said that they are actually in charge of the off-balance sheet. So, accounting without actually having a deposit of that amount of credit, these francs, how much these loans are paid towards citizenship. And whether these 23 or 21 billion kunas are responsible for whether that amount really exists in francs or was actually just an accounting exchange, that off-balance sheet exchange between Croatian banks and their parent banks, that in fact only paper-covered what they present to us today, because in that case it would actually happen if there really wasn't that money, but it was only accountingly carried out to this extent that we would support, as fellow Bubalo said, the banks will no longer be in a hurry anyway. They won't have a special occasion or impulse to rush somewhere, and I'll remind you that those available except for their queens as sources of money here still have a whole series of branches not just business banks. They have leasing companies, they have pension societies that have billions of kunas and over which they also in fact balance with different placements in some way or not to say bad placements also at the expense of the money that Croatian citizens make out of their salaries. So I think we should move on, that it's actually going to be an obligation for the state to think about what will continue after this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97096	Replica reply, Vice President of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97097	I really can't tell you my colleague Đurovic, I have no such knowledge. I only have the knowledge we can get from the Croatian National Bank reports, and these days the Croatian National Bank said that the sources relating to loans with the currency clause in Swiss francs have a difference of some few hundred million kunas compared to sources in francs. As it is registered or not registered, only the Croatian National Bank, which controls business banks, can know that. So we must trust in the Croatian institution, the central financial institution that leads and monetary policy. And if that is the case, and as they did in this report, if you were able to read it, you said that the bank's 1000 euro loan is worth 25 euros, and that these loans don't earn anything, we can only trust or doubt it. I can't personally give you an answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97098	A new replica follows, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97099	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear Vice President Zgrebec. You said in your discussion that the Austrian banks informed the users of the credit in the Swiss francs about the possible effects of these same loans, and now in the replica, I don't know whether those users I spoke about were cooperatives, these are savings in Austria, whether they were also giving them such information. The other night the prime minister said to me that this move, the move of the statesman, the move of responsibility, and the end of expertise. So, the expertise in the last place that got me a little worried, because it was already clear to me that politics was at first, and finally or some kind of professional solution is being delayed. So I'm asking you now are you ready as a SDP club to put pressure on the Prime Minister to make such a state-owned and responsible move not this professional, so that it can be delayed for these users who took credits in cooperatives, in savings a year away and help them too because they are Croatian citizens too. I won't argue, but I think they're in almost equal or worse trouble than users in Swiss francs. Their properties are daily under wraps. Or it doesn't matter to you, so then here's the state can react to one like this, and let the others take care of it on their own. I don't think that's a good thing, and that's exactly what we need to use this debate in this direction so that your government doesn't exactly attract a perception that's certainly going to look like it's a stepmom and someone's mother. I think credit users in those savings also deserve a state-owned and responsible move. So we'll see professionally whether all the institutions in the state have done everything right so that these citizens can finally be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97100	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97101	You have to ask the users of these loans if they've got a flyer like this. In my reply to the replica, I also wonder if those savings to our citizens who took the loan there presented it. If they did, they were aware of what kind of credit they were taking. ... They had to be aware if they got this information. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've read it all over, that and layman can understand what kind of credit and what kind of obligations he's taking. ... Well, then they're not, so that's the problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we can't legally solve the credit problem in another country. This can only be done by interstate talks and this is a good opportunity, there are many colleagues and colleagues reported, on all sides we will consider these problems not only of the Swiss franc but also of all other foreign exchange loans. So maybe those credits that are in kunas, and people can't pay them off to see in the entire credit debt of our citizens how they can be helped in a certain way. There's not much expertise or intricacies. It's known that if we go into the conversion of these loans, it's a huge cost. Who's gonna take the cost? That's a deal to make. We can't go all the way to the banks, we can't go to the state, we can't go to the National Bank through foreign reserves, we need to find some kind of solution that will satisfy everyone involved in this process as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97102	A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97103	Look, fellow Zgrebec, when a man looks at this problem with some kind of time-out so sober, we've been discussing a lot of reports here, and no one has given a more significant impression of this problem. And now, looking at Croatia so soberly, something happened that the central bank did not ban loans in Swiss, and perhaps needed them, business banks did not warn clients of potential problems. And with citizens, we have two groups. One, I'm going to say it openly, they went speculatively because of the lower interest rate, and the other, and I think that these other really are the real problem of the state and they need to be taken care of, are those who have seen the opportunity to finally resolve their status as residential and like this. Unfortunately, in the meantime, some have lost their jobs and we have the situation we have. And wouldn't it make sense that the space to be so central bank, business bank and citizens try to agree and find a Solomonian solution that will solve this problem, and I think it exists and that it can be found, and that politics doesn't interfere with that part of the story until then, politics simply has to react in this social aspect and that's what this law doesn't at all. Because look, I'm against it if someone's raised a loan in Swiss for speculative reasons to make 5, 6, 10 apartments or to buy a third or fourth apartment to help him in any way. It's a business risk, like all those who have lost their jobs in the meantime. But that's why we need to take care of the citizens who, unfortunately, not their own guilt have found themselves in this situation that they've found themselves in. And maybe if we thought about it that way, we would never have had an idea like this about a law that would certainly cause a series of lawsuits. I'm going to open up a giant skeleton in the closet for the future government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97104	The replica matches Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97105	I am aware that this amendment to the law is a political decision. I think we're all aware of that here. Why is she political? Well, because in the short term, at the moment when the law is passed, talks and negotiations must take effect on how to resolve these loans, and I think that through this debate, the issue of solving and all of what you're talking about will open up. I think it will speed up these arrangements and seek long-term solutions unlike what my colleague Kosor said before when you and the banks made the deal, it wasn't the law and they were calm. The agreement was in force for a while, the course was still slipping and it exploded now that it exploded and hit us all over the head, and the citizens and us and the government and the Parliament. And we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97106	The last replica, the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97107	Dear Vice President Zgrebec, therefore I agree with your thesis that both the Government and Parliament have an obligation to help resolve this situation, absolutely have, must find a solution. Now you've practically answered Shuker and I'm asking you again when this year is up and there's a solution that will, of course, be a contractual solution because there's no other solution than an agreed solution, and what will happen if someone, for example, does. banks like you just said jump out of that deal? We don't have the law anymore. And I am the only one in this House who seems to be the only one who warns that this law is against the constitution. Last year, the Constitutional Court has already shown to you that the legislator cannot interfere with contractual relations between the two sides. This law absolutely does that. So there's got to be some other way, not exactly this kind of law that's anti-constitutional to find a way out of this situation. I can't believe I'm the only one pointing to that. Or you're all aware he's anti-constitutional, so let's go vote against the constitutional law. Take a look at the 7th month Lex Vlahusic last year. I'm talking about that part of the Constitutional Court's decision that concerns exactly the law they're interfering with. So it's only the court that can make that decision. Let us wait for the Supreme Court's decision already taken by the Commercial Court, the High Court of Commerce, if a Supreme Court decision is to be taken, the Supreme Court should ask to make its decision, it is not any pressure on the court. And why don't you do it. And we should also ask the Constitutional Court to make its decision, we do not say what it is, but let it make its decision and that is the only thing that needs to be done and, of course, find an agreement on the solution. I don't see a problem why we have to go into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97108	The replica matches Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97109	Of course, I can't have a controversy with you about the constitutionality of some law, you're a lawyer, you're a minister of justice, I'm an economist, and I can only look at it from an economic point of view. But when you do, you're talking about a contractual relationship that is a contractual relationship between a city and an association, and here we're talking about an explosive distortion of the financial market. There has been such a distortion of the market that the state is obliged to intervene to bring market relations down into normal frameworks and I think it is constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97110	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, respected Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97111	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to start my short replica, and I'm not Charlie. I've never passed a law before on the sale of the country's energy systems or telecommunications systems or other sales of financial banks. In that sense, I'm not Charlie, but I am for freedom of speech, responsible freedom and freedom of man and responsible freedom. The club of independent representatives that I represent here will in principle support the additions of the laws as a temporary solution to finding better solutions for this situation in which we are not the only citizens of Croatia but also other countries. What do you do? Perhaps this one-year delay is a reasonable time limit to think carefully and to make offers, to seek solutions and to accept a solution that will be less painful. Wrong drin, one metaphor is hard to correct again. Who was on the river Drina knows it's a canyon in a stone and it's hard to fix that drina. We are now correcting what we have missed in Croatia's current leadership, which is very risky, dangerously almost impossible because they have become mental circuits, and mental circuits are very resistant to dodging or change. Therefore, in addition to these comments, those who participated in the adoption of such laws, including the CNB which allowed foreign currency repayment, and in Croatia, it is worth the kuna as a means of payment, I think we are all in charge of looking for better solutions, and perhaps the abolition of the foreign clause would not be a bad solution. The follow-up to this debate will be continued by the second representative of the Independent Representatives Club, Mr Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97112	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed Caine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97113	Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Absolutely something to do about it. And I don't know, first of all, this law should be supported. There are cases, however, when the government and the local self-government, and I don't know who introduces new taxes, collects all citizens by 20, 30%, and then nothing. Why should this law be supported? Well, I'd say first of all because of the fate of the savings, but indirectly probably the banks themselves. If it is true that loans are 5.43% in euro and 12.9% in Swiss, then in order to find a solution, banks themselves should be interested in finding a solution. We have already heard several times 60 thousand Croatian citizens have credit in Swiss, 300 thousand citizens are in some way threatened, 23.7 billion kuna is the total amount related to Swiss and of that amount is 21.8 billion to apartments. How has the government now come to this relationship of 6.39 kuna for a Swiss franc? Yesterday, the prime minister was about to demonstrate it at his doctor friend's apartment. When he started paying off the loan war was if I wasn't mistaken, he said 5,500 kuna per new one should now be 10,500 kuna, under this law 8,500 kuna. So the risk is kind of being transferred to banks and citizens somewhere in some way. Just before we heard the Deputy Minister of Finance who said that a loan granted in the amount of 70 thousand Swiss francs with a 20-year repayment period and with a monthly annuity of 421 Swiss jump course to 7.54 kuna with 6.39 kuna brought an increase of 484 kuna annuity. However, the point is that after nine years the principal is paid off when the principal is now 51.5 thousand Swiss francs, but with a bankruptcy of 6.39 kuna, the height is 329 thousand kuna and with 7.5 kuna would be as much as 388 thousand kuna. So I take the loan nine years ago, I pay off 45 thousand Swiss and I owe normal the whole, normal, it's not normal, and I owe the whole loan... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And a little bit more, that's right. The problem is that we return the interest first and the principal waits for the end. I don't know, but I'm guessing it's nowhere in Europe. ... That, which is everywhere, first just return the interest and then the principal... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah, it's just a matter of interest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It should be clear everything, someone will say turn into a kuna, the currency clause is an extra profit but the question is raised and yesterday the governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Vujčić, warned whether it is possible. Clearly, one such legal solution makes bankers unsatisfactory. The Croatian banking system is a stable system and should be highlighted with the problem of unpaid loans. In 2013, it was about 18%, today it's 18.9%. This morning I saw 18.9% of unpaid loans are also in Slovenia. Get all Croatian banks and savings banks, so they 31 in Croatia are below T-HT's, normally not to feel sorry for them. I regret that, say, 11 Croatian banks and savings banks are doing business with losses. This means a lot about opportunities in Croatia. It's also interesting that, and it should be pointed out, that after the '99s, I don't know '98. In addition to possible cases of Rijeka Bank, Postage Banks Croatian banking system does not record any problems. It is also interesting to see how talks between the Ministry of Finance and the Governor of the Croatian National Bank were under way. It started with, like, five solutions. So the conversion to the euro or kuna, the second write-off of the difference for the poor, the third freeze rate to 6.39, the fourth write-off of the difference as expenditure and the fifth, say, interest reduction. Yesterday Governor Vujcic offered five of his solutions. So lower interest that the average monthly Swiss-related loans would remain the same interest rate at the current Swiss rate should be reduced to 0.7%. With this measure, the bank would lose 500 million kuna, in this law 400 million kuna. Then says the formation of a balloon, debtors would pay credit rates per exchange rate that was worth before the rapid strengthening of Swiss while the difference between a fixed and a real exchange rate would flow into that balloon and later pay off. Then credit conversion, the first model is Hungarian, which implies converting all housing loans into kunas but thus reducing foreign reserves by an alarming 7.8 billion euros or 73%. Another model is the conversion of residential loans with a currency clause in Swiss or these euro. And clearly he says tax measures, banks would be encouraged to deal with debt-free problems and he now offers the same under quotes "original" idea that one option would be to transfer real estate to a bank where the debtor would become a tenant, he would have the right to first purchase of real estate. And the fifth freeze course, that's this model that's just being offered here. In the next 12 months, debtors will pay off the war at a fixed rate of 6.39 kuna, which will cost about 400 million kuna at the end of the bank. I'd say this last variant is one soft variant and that's the point. However, no matter what, the bankers too, Milanovic, to put it this way, are in doubt what Mrs Skare-Ozbolt was talking about because they are calling for retroactivity. They ask where the CNB is, i.e. whether courses are now becoming an ingenuity of the government itself. Third, they say, the burden is transferred to only one side, i.e. banks, which is true in this case. But I repeat something should simply be done. This is, in my opinion, a compromise that does not affect the government, which does not affect the state budget, which does not hit the Croatian National Bank at this point, and whether the country may be hit through some new banking policy the next day, or the citizens, we will see it, but at this point we need to save what is being given. That's why I'd dare say that this law is a compromise. He's not much of a helper, but he certainly helps. Right, those in charge of the euro said that at first those who took the Swiss were in an incomparably better position than we were and I say no one talked about it then. But I'm going to say what's been wrong from the beginning over time, it can't qualify, it can't be strengthened, and that's why I support one of these solutions that isn't ideal but it's actually compromiseable and at this point it's going to support the same majority if not all the representatives or clubs. I said this law weighs somewhere around 400 million kuna, going to that 400 million kuna on the burden of banks. Today we read by portals The government is considering binding future housing loans to kunas. What happens to it remains to be seen. What my colleagues said before me, this is the second intervention of the Croatian Government or the Croatian Parliament. The first time the interest on Swiss is reduced to 3.23% clearly that the question here is what if the Swiss falls to, say, 5.5 if it stays 6.39 kuna, it won't. But I'm afraid he'll grow sooner than he'll fall. You could also look for that temporary solution of 3 months, and then make a decision but this is actually a temporary solution in a year. I'll also say that I stand behind Governor Vujcic. No one must really mess with the foreign reserve of the Croatian National Bank. Banks have borrowed, therefore, tens of thousands of Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs, etc., have not withdrawn a country that could then worry about how with these people through some social programmes, although it must be that everyone can do the job and live on their own. If this would lead to the conversion of everything into kuna loans to the devaluation of the kuna, then we are all engrossed and therefore we really need to listen carefully to what Mr. Vujčić is telling us. Clearly, there is no way to end the foreign savings in Croatia, because then the money escape from Croatia would follow, and the question is who would simply invest. Finally, I will paraphrasise that the kuna should be kept as a pupil of its own eye, but what we all need to fear is what if today the governor of the European Bank, means today it places those announced billions and 100 million euros on the market, the franc will further strengthen, and the kuna and the euro will weaken. This will not challenge the eurozone, but may call into question dozens of debtors in the Republic of Croatia. That is now the question that will be opened by the end of today, and I fear that we will probably have to read again soon on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97114	Thank you. They're following the replicas. The first two are directed to the respected Ivan Grubisic. The first is the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Don Ivana Grubisic, you have also pointed out that you are for the freedom of man and that it is always difficult to correct the wrong drinas. Is a man free to enter a credit relationship like this and can such a relationship be called a credit relationship at all when he has a chain of such credit where his hands are tied, where his legs are tied, where the stone is hung around his neck, and he has to swim through the troubles of life. And in 2004, when these loans started, HDZ was in power, the CNB which works then the governor was already talking about it, nothing, shut up or very little about it. As the Austrian National Bank does, it publishes on five pages its citizenship not only the client declaration where it tells them, in particular the fat letters to them, these foreign exchange loans are speculative business. In modern times, no one can know how a favourable interest rate will develop in the future. In modern times, no one can know how the exchange rate and thus the amount of the loan rate will develop in the future. Today, no one can know what the interest rate will ultimately be for the borrower. So that's how it was done there, and our man came to the bank, there was even conspired, our media is saying if it was our banks that became bookies, Russian roulette, but worse than that. These people are in the best of faith, even in trouble, and the man says they were naive, so they are not naive. The man who's in trouble is always naive and you can declare him because he doesn't have a choice. So, where he went, if he went for the loan, he went for a landmine, a time bomb that exploded, and there were wounded. And what does the government and the responsible state do? It's her duty to save the wounded. This is really a fight for the wounded. And what else can I tell you about this? So the duty of the state is primary to protect its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97116	Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97117	And the issue of constitutionality is that after nine years, this loan is twice as big, so people should be put in jail for loaning them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97118	My colleagues, Ingrid, respect your time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivan Grubisic. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97119	I thank you for your participation in the replica, and I agree with your remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97120	The second line is the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97121	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you said that you did not participate in many decisions that caused damage in Croatia. That is correct, but I must remind you that two members of your club's representatives were involved in the rejection in October 2012 of our proposal to ban the currency clause. In 15 points of reasoning, why it should be banned 6 points refers to the speculative character of the currency clause. What happened with Frank is the result of speculative behaviour on the financial market. They were probably led by that statement and the government's opinion and the prime minister's statement: we will not be populists and ban the foreign exchange clause. You who have the Internet open the portals. 15 minutes ago, a report from the government's session, a statement by the prime minister: future housing loans only in kunas. Partly banning currency clauses for dedicated housing loans. What must have happened, how many people, the citizens of this country have been expelled from their apartments, failed social, health, however you wish to come to their senses and to realize that you are in power to understand that the currency clause of speculative character is unpredictable, dangerous and harmful and now we are going to a partial ban on the currency clause. Did all those victims have to fall? Did all these people have to fall down to figure out what we were actually doing? And I admire the bank's PR. Only within 24 hours through the Croatian media have they managed to impose the thesis of jeopardizing the banking system if we do anything, let alone if we adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97122	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97123	I thank you for your objection, and I agree. And if it turns out that abolishing the foreign exchange clause is the solution to this case, I would be happy to accept and change my mind. The one who does the right thing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97124	They're following the replicas of Damir Cain. The first one will be presented by the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97125	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, in your debate, you were talking about this, or you were an example, I would say before the dramatic fate of one of the 55,000 Croatian citizens who, as a result, were in charge of solving their existential needs, because 90% of these credits in Swiss are precisely related to that purpose. So, you brought forth their dramatic destiny. And it makes sense to me, in fact, that this legislative proposal by the government is going towards the risk, or the cost of freezing the course that the government is proposing in this law, is going right to the burden of banks. However, here is what the president of the PBZ administration says about such a legal provision. So, he says that transferring the entire risk to banks would be counter-constitutional because it would be an expropriation of private property. And what is it, then, when a citizen is given hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs, so that's the example spoken of repeatedly in today's debate, you take two or three times as much? In fact, this moment cannot even be estimated how many times more will be taken. So the man pays off the loan he took for 20 years and then actually owes him even more than the initial amount of the loan. So what's different than expropriation? I'd say actually it's one huge robbery and it's a double robbery. On the one hand, the citizen returns incomparably more than he took, and on the other hand, the real estate he invested in today is worth less than it was worth 10 years ago. On the other hand, banks have been making very, very good profits all these years. And even when we remember that before they were sold to foreigners, exactly the money of tax citizens with about 70 to 80 billion kuna, then we can really calm souls say that this bill thinks well, that the complete risk must go to banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97126	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97127	I absolutely agree and co-sign every word you say here. And indeed, if at this point you need to transfer to someone under quotes that risk then it has to be business banks. We have cases like this, let's say in Istria which has the highest performance in the Republic of Croatia 1400, the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, which counts a million inhabitants somewhere is 400, 450 dots. The banks were able to carry out the debt for 2990 kuna. A man takes a 200 thousand kuna loan for his apartment, pays off that 200 thousand kuna, pays the interest of 150 thousand kuna and loses his apartment for 2990 kuna. Indeed, we must react in some way and send a clear message that such a law may fall, I speak now in mind and in the Constitutional Court. But knowing their up-to-dateness, I don't think it's going to be in these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97128	New replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I noticed your quote when you said that the government and local self-government were introducing taxes to no one at all. It's not like that! That's not true! Well, you can't convince me when VAT has been raised to 25% that it hasn't been quite a blow to citizens' standards, and a number of other taxes from rising electricity to heating, etc. It must have been a blow, and the citizens were weakened, and the citizens had already weakened. And you know, I from my profession speak when immunity falls then even the smallest virus can end fatally, and this is not to say what trouble this is for these people. And the other thing, as far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government has not raised a dozen of those taxes as the government has raised and so much burden. So look now in these new circumstances that happened because of the amendments to the Income Tax Act that nearly two billion kunas went from local self-government. Of course, many people struggle to preserve the standard of citizens and those things from kindergartens and, of course, they don't really raise their taxes, they don't raise and worry about it. But of course, there's one constitutional lawsuit that stands in the light of these circumstances. And the third thing, I agree with you in this part, is to do something in these circumstances. That's true, but we have in medicine a maximum that says sometimes you want to do something good, make a therapeutically good shift in priming niyl nights. There is a possibility sometimes in the best of intentions and a desire to do something good to harm and harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97130	The replica matches the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97131	I think you just need to step on the ball, and you need to stop at the ball and the government and local self-government and municipal companies, and stop simply transferring all that burden and the banks clearly and switching to the weakest ones, and these are just citizens. You mentioned the Income Act. True, two billion kunas have shifted from local budgets towards Croatian citizens. Citizens, not the state, but the citizens. The state will now, if I'm not mistaken, compensate local self-government with approximately 1 billion kuna. And I argue that if 500 and I don't know how many 50 of the municipalities, what cities in the Republic of Croatia and all 29 of them intervened in the assumption that they shouldn't have done it either by simply relocating the extra burden to the citizens. Because the vast majority of them won't just feel anything. Those who are in the public sector that, certain increases, in their salaries, but for others, I doubt that. So, once again I'm going to say it's time to stop at the ball, it's not time to just go from month to month, it doesn't matter now whether the government does the banks whether the local self-government is correcting the amounts up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97132	A new replica, respected Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97133	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Cain, you were saying something about Minister Lalovec. Minister Lalovac has, as far as I know from the media, a loan in Swiss francs and we also know that he came from Raiffeisen Bank to deputy, and today he's the finance minister. It means that in one person we have a man who should solve the problem of Swiss francs as well as these Austrian cooperatives and savings banks. I think it's convenient. Now, why did he propose Swiss francs or in cooperation with the prime minister, and this other problem is not addressed, I will leave it to the public to assess it myself. You're coming from Istria and there's really a lot of people out there as well as on my island who've been raising these loans in Austrian savings and cooperatives. Why would they do that? Because the Croatian banking system rejected them, it assessed them as people who can't get loans because they may have low incomes, and they wanted to do something in tourism, maybe do some kind of job, make themselves some kind of stock for the future. Many of them are defenders, PTSD sufferers, and today they are in more trouble than people who have Swiss francs. credit in Swiss francs. However, the state sets them apart and tells me for you we can't make a decision, we can't delay your performance for a year. And on this particular segment, they also have the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, the courts, the attorney's office. So let the store be done to the end, let it be seen what is possible and what is not possible. Which is why we would only single out one group. I say, and responsibly claim that this other group is equally and almost more endangered than the people who have loans in Swiss francs, I'm telling you. And there's a lot going on. And I think now is a chance to get that solution started and let everyone say what they think about this problem and where the solution is for those people, and not to let them get together, to protest in front of the Ministry of Justice, to self-organize and not give them any solutions because they took it in another country and we don't care, they're not Croatian citizens. They are and should be helped, as do those who have loans in Swiss francs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97134	Time fellow Boric. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97135	It is absolutely necessary to help people who have these loans in these Austrian savings banks as you say. It's only now that the question arises whether we can now intervene with some government measures on the basis of quotes of "terrory" of another country like this sovereign Austria? It is also necessary to help these people, such as to help our fellow citizens who have been taking loans in Swiss, as should help the unemployed, as should help the socially weak, as should help small craftsmen who are almost on their feet and do not count further. You've noticed exactly the finance minister comes from the banking sector and, as you say, he has a loan in Swiss. Is this some kind of conflict of interest, should we rule it out? I don't know. I guess not, maybe just more intensely feeling the problem of Swiss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97136	Last replica, respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97137	My colleague Caine, you said I stand behind Vujčić, and now I understand why Mr. Vujčić is so strong, stable, and the CNB is so protected. A little joke. And you said one more sentence, and it is to be kept as the pupil of your eye. It's normal, it's a flossula because we know that the kuna in Croatia is just a calculation tool to have a comparison of how in euro, even some members of the government will express themselves in euro. In order to do that, you're in favour of a long-term solution. To achieve a long-term solution should be touched in the foreign exchange clause. This government refused to discuss the foreign exchange clause. A moment ago, Mr. Boris mentioned one very important thing, and it is a united citizen. Citizens have also had a big role in all this to save those people who took the loans have citizens and the Frank Association that we didn't mention today. So it's said that the government reacts to a whore, to a push. Only when citizens begin to organize themselves, when Zeljka Markic organises a referendum then the government jumps in, will we tomorrow or the day after tomorrow not know when we will discuss the law that Mrs Markic is. That's how the Frank Association is an example of how the government shouldn't work. That the Association of Citizens is ahead and has a better solution than the Government of the Republic of Croatia. All you mentioned was evidence and questionnaires that you provided that the CNB didn't do its job. And, of course, because she didn't do her job, you were wondering if they were now courses in government intelligence? Mr. Vujcic gives a lot of lessons, but he doesn't do the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97138	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97139	Whether I stand behind Governor Vujčić or not, like you, that support certainly won't mean much to him. But once again I will swear, as one statesman says, in the true sense of that word to paraphrasise it, it is indeed necessary to keep it as a pupil of my eye. Believe it or not, Kuna has been a part of the stability of the Republic of Croatia for the past 15 years or more and since the time of Mr Valentiæ. It's tied or loans are tied to the euro. If the conversion of credit would destroy the foreign exchange reserves of the Republic of Croatia, then the damage would be irreparable. And that's why I really support that part of Mr. Vujcic's warning. We must ask ourselves, however, what will happen to the Central European Bank today. Today, gentlemen should make a decision that could greatly shake the market for shares and exchange rates in relation to other currencies. If the bank today decides to adopt measures of this quantitative monetary discount, it says it could boost the euro-euro-euro economy, and the dollar rate, or Swiss, could significantly rise. What will happen today, tomorrow I don't know, but then all those others who save in euro will not be gathered in front of the Croatian Parliament or I don't know in front of the CNB but also in the streets because I don't know who will be able to protect them if we play with additional foreign reserves of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97140	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave and Independent Representatives Natalija Martincevic and Petra Baranovic, the respected Natalija Martincevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97141	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I apologize, Vice President of the Parliament, I must correct you, Mr Baranovic and I are members of the People's Party of Reformists. Today, before the Parliament and before the citizens, the government has again come up with one measure that is not even close to a solution. What I would like first of all to stress is that we expect this government to come up with, at the same time, the rate of the Consumer Credit Act, which the Swiss franc is fixed to 6,39 in the fastest possible time, with the complete solution that the reformers have already offered, and I am going to do it today in this debate and repeat it again. This includes a solution that is acceptable to the government, for the CNB, for business banks but primarily for citizens who are burdened with loans in Swiss francs. And of course it can't be a year's time because you're serious the government can't allow it to transfer responsibility to someone else, after that "my concern goes to another" so to another government in a year, that's the first. And secondly, there is no need to ignore the warnings we heard today, which is that this law is in conflict with four other laws and there is a great possibility that it will collapse or dispute in the Constitutional Court. If that happens, it will also cause lawsuits and it could really happen that this problem eventually sits on the back of all citizens. This government, unfortunately, has shown that it has neither the courage nor the ability, however you wish, to initiate reforms nor to make decisions. If something goes on and it's a public administration reform, it's outsoursing, it's monetizing whatever anyone raises a voice, somebody always raises a voice because someone always finds hit this government retreats. Thus, neither the government nor the state can be governed. Because if the government's policy is not to touch anyone and that's how everyone likes it, I think that all the elections made in the term of this government have made it clear that when you go into politics, then you want everyone to like you in the end, that nobody likes you. We have been as states for more than six years in a deep crisis and our citizens with full rights expect the state to implement reforms and make decisions. And what we're discussing today is the avoidance of decisions. Over the course of this temporary measure, and without a systematic solution, we have actually re-exposed our citizens to the same risk, the same stress, the same life drama for a year. The only difference is that someone else will deal with this problem then. This is not a solution that citizens expect from the government as an institution that has all the mechanisms to ensure security for citizens. Every day we have opportunities to listen and watch the dramas of people who after years of paying off the loan war now owe more than they owed when they took the loan. Today we're talking about some 60 thousand citizens who have loans in francs, which means direct influence when we take their families to over 200 thousand people. And to be perfectly clear, we are also talking about another 60,000 citizens, or 60,000 people who are bailiffs or judges. Credits in francs have been raised mostly as housing loans, and here we have two huge problems. First, the amount of credit increased as we had the opportunity to hear today several times now 20%, and secondly the prices of real estate fell drastically. So when banks take away property from citizens, when they're kicked out of their houses or streets on the road, the rest of the debt to the bank will still remain and it's called true debt slavery. Another problem, which is these other 60,000 citizens who are judges or guarantees, is that banks will sit on their accounts before taking real estate, on their salaries and on their pensions and thus endanger another 60,000 families. So today we are talking about really terrible and huge problems of a large number of our citizens, problems that are precisely known to be responsible. Let's start with the commercial banks first. Banks in Croatia that first started offering loans in Swiss were Austrian banks. It's very interesting, so we've had this opportunity many times today to hear that the Austrian banks, of course based on the government's order, warned their citizens about the risks of taking credit in francs. But not only that, the Austrian government just at the request of the Austrian Central Bank precisely because of the risk overexposure in 2008 banned foreign currency lending. Of course, in Croatia they offered it with a hand and a hat. This trend, although familiar with the situation and risks, has been very readily joined by other banks in Croatia. It is said that part of the responsibility is borne by citizens. But the vast majority of our citizens who took loans in Swiss francs did not go for speculative income or savings, and she was not aware of the risk it poses. And all these people were raising loans according to the war's calculations at the time, and that was the part that their salaries or pensions could handle. I personally took the same loan in the bank at the time, the bank offered me a fine loan in euro or Swiss, and nobody told me a word about the potential risks in that bank, and fortunately I took a loan in euro, but what I'm saying is that's not the case. Someone said today that that's why they're going to jail, I don't know if they're going to jail really, but I think they should go because citizens can take risks or not have to take risks. If the banks had told them, a certain group of citizens would have risked it again. But the banks had to tell them that and the banks had to warn them about it but they didn't. In the context of citizens' responsibilities and that they should have been aware of the risk of this today, there were speeches. Perhaps it is enough to say that, here is what Boric mentioned and the finance minister himself said that he has loans in Swiss as well as the prime minister and that for some reason we believe that they should be more competent and more directed than the average citizens thesis of citizens' responsibility does not hold water. But not to be fooled, of course, that it's not just commercial banks. I will make it very clear that the Croatian National Bank is responsible for this situation. Mr. Vujcic then spoke of it, spoke in the Assembly, as said today by the Deputy Minister but it is certainly not something to be commended for. However, I would call it even the peak of cynicism because it clearly proves that the Croatian National Bank knew but did not act. The Croatian National Bank is not an advisory body, it is not an institution to be consulted and to be talked about, it has all the instruments and all the levers to act, it is her business. And that's why experts in the Croatian National Bank pay more than the president of the state. They're not here to say anything and they're not here to warn anything, they're here to act. It is their duty that they have not fulfilled. And that's where we get to the third person in charge, and that's the government. When the Croatian National Bank did not act at that time, the government should act. Because she was warned, too, it would be good if she knew herself that she was taking these at great risk. And she had then as this government today all the instruments to act but didn't work. And of course we're not talking about all this, there are examples of a number of responsible European countries that have put themselves there in the way to be set up. I was already talking about the Austrian government banning foreign currency lending as early as 2008, so the Austrians solved it before the problem arose. Hungarians reacted on the other hand when the problem arose. Orban showed the ability to see and solve the problem. The government implemented the conversion of francs into forints, shared financial responsibility between their central bank, between business banks and citizens, and thus protected more than a million citizens who had loans in Switzerland in Hungary. And we decided we'd decide in a year. And so for the second time, this government is missing an opportunity to deal with this problem permanently. It has already been said today that the government at one point restricted the interest rate that happened at the same time with the fixation of the franc exchange rate compared to the euro of the Swiss Central Bank and at that time it was quite clear that it was a temporary fixation and that tomorrow the market could change the rules of the game that eventually happened. And then the government was supposed to condition the transfer of credit from francs to euro but it wasn't. And that's why reformists, along with colleagues from the New Wave Club and the Democratic Center, think that we need to act immediately, and that is why we can support the fact that the government did react and that something was made to stop this blow right away. However, as more than half of the solutions have been shown and proved, they are not solved systematically. What we're looking for is the conversion of credits from francs to kuna and as soon as possible. In kuna because it is known to which we can control largely, in which we receive salaries, in which we receive pensions and make payments. Here we now had the opportunity to hear colleague Lesar warns that he had just proposed this 15 minutes ago and Prime Minister Milanovic. As far as the model is concerned, the model needs to be clearly and clean. So the Croatian National Bank today has about 12 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves and these are relatively high reserves, one of the highest in the wider region that can guarantee security and stability. This suggests that the Croatian National Bank has the possibility to borrow commercial banks for 3.2 billion euros per 20 years at 0.1% interest without significant risks or disturbances. So that's less than 30% of the foreign exchange reserves, so I'm going to repeat that is less than 30% of the foreign exchange reserves. And now I have to react to yesterday's statements by Mr. Vujčić, which I would say not only are public deception but they are a very real, pure lie. Yesterday, Mr. Vujcic said that the conversion of credit to kuna would amount to 7.8 billion euros and 73% of state reserves, thereby jeopardising the stability of the state. He just accidentally forgot to mention that the 7.8 billion would be a conversion of all loans to kuna. No one was talking about turning the euro into kuna, no one was talking about converting all loans into kuna. We're talking about how much I know only about Swiss francs. So we're not talking about 7.8 billion euros here, which would probably really jeopardize stability, talking about 3.2 billion euros here, which is less than 30%. And that's exactly the kind of bank policy that has deceived the public and the citizens today, the governor of the National Bank, and that's obviously the model of behavior in the banking sector. But if we have to take it from the Austrian and Italian banks, I don't think we should suffer from the CNB. So to conclude, the CNB knew, didn't do anything, had all the instruments and levers to do, and now this is how it deceives the Croatian public. So now that we've established that the conversion of credit from francs to kuna will not endanger the stability of our foreign reserves, I would end up presenting our model. Banks are thus allowed to schedule the impact they are suffering at 20 years, with banks obliged to support the existing kuna amount, an annuity to pay off loans at an annuity level in the past month. In this respect, citizens are fully protected until the end of the repayment of credit because their annuity will not change regardless of exchange rate changes and thus the financial problem is distributed between those responsible, which are business banks and CNB. Citizens have already taken their share of the burden of responsibility in this case. We hope that the government will seriously consider our proposals. We will in good interest support the proposal to supplement the Consumer Credit Act, but only as a fact that citizens are currently being stopped from growing credit, while at the same time expressing our dissatisfaction with half the solutions and cosmetic measures instead of giving a serious overall solution. We already introduced him a few days ago, and now I've presented him here again. And because the government does not propose concrete measures within which we consider it more than sufficient, which is 2 months, we will present to the public and refer to the parliamentary procedure our own proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97142	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. There you go, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97143	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Martincevic, it is good that you mentioned that the Austrian banks with the credit product were linked to the franc on the Croatian market when the Austrian state banned such a product. They found a spare market. By joining your proposals for a complete solution, I must update it and mention that it really should respond urgently to the executive procedures that are under way, and the consequences of the agreement are the clause next to the Swiss because not only when the bank takes over the apartment as a charge, if it is not fully charged goes and blocking the account for the rest of the debt. And I think that by the urgent revision of the rules, by amending the rules on enforcement for so long until the first time, and now I publicly call on the President of the Supreme Court to finally make a decision from 12.8.2014, when he had a request for a review of the second-degree decision, the Supreme Court has no right to postpone and not to decide on this, Mr Turudić, wake up, as well as the Constitutional Court, which since January 2011 does not want to decide on the requirement of an assessment of the constitutionality of the articles of the Law on Mandatory Relations on this and they cannot, must no longer be silent, because there is too much disputed, strange, suspicious. Too many Croatia has already been divided, awaiting that on the one hand the judicial body, so the Supreme Court and on the other hand the Constitutional Court will finally suspend this competition of constitutionality-unconstitution. Only then could the government take further steps and measures... to amend the Mandatory Relations Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97144	Thank you. The reply to the replica, colleague Martincevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97145	Yes, as I was saying, Austria is only one of the states that have set up in this case as the state should be set up and that is responsible. After a few years earlier, citizens through these flyers who only today had the opportunity to see and read, warned their citizens about it, eventually at the proposal of their central bank, so our CNB issued a ban on taking credit or lending in foreign currencies. That's how the responsible state behaves. And as far as these activities are concerned, it's exactly the problem I was talking about, which is that in Croatia today we have a situation with the debtors who due to the housing loans in the francs that they and when the bank takes away their property, when they are kicked out of their house, their apartment, that they remain in debt to the bank. But before that, before she takes the property, she'll take the money to the judges and the bailiffs. So in addition to these 60,000 citizens who are directly at risk, another 60,000 judges and bailiffs have been threatened that the banks will sit on their salaries and their pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97146	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97147	Dear colleagues Natalija Martincevic, you spoke in your presentation about who was guilty or responsible for the situation, so you put the government in third place. I'd put more government-Sabor withdrawal there, but I'd put it first, I wouldn't blame it in the first place for the CNB who did it, but who puts the governor of the CNB? We're here in the Parliament. When we saw the governor not doing his job properly, that the governor, according to that most conservative understanding of the central bank, was only protecting the exchange rate and not protecting the economy, the industry in the state, not protecting its citizens, it had to be replaced. So it's our fault, like someone said before. Besides, the CNB exists because of the citizens. When Mrs. Allbright came to Croatia, if you remember, she immediately warned Mr. Tudjman's first president at the airport that the state exists because of citizens. The CNB is above the state and above the citizens. It's like giving an extraterior institution that does what it wants. Mr. Vujcic is here above as a man who gives lessons to everyone. He's actually in the role of a politician who shares a pair like Mr. Rohatinski has been handing out packs to every government. And then he hit on his fingers, but he didn't do anything to change the situation, and he has instruments that can do it especially in the foreign exchange clause that he said in response that he wasn't competent to change the CNB, that he wasn't in charge. But the CNB was supposed to warn but not verbally, as you said, but on a written path, it was supposed to hit the table with a fist like one of the future presidents said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97148	Thank you very much. First respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97149	Yeah, I counted very precisely all those I think are responsible because none of this happened by accident, nothing happened suddenly. Therefore, there is the name and last name of the responsible person, i.e. the responsible institution. Certainly, it is always the most responsible government, as is the most responsible parliamentary majority who supports and supports its decisions. That responsibility here is unquestionable. The Croatian National Bank, however, is an institution that specializes in just this sort of thing. She exists for this sort of thing. I said today that experts in the Croatian National Bank have paid more than the president of the state for exactly the reason to do their job, to protect citizens from these situations. And they didn't do anything. Now 10 days after the problem broke out Mr. Vujcic explains that there was something he used to say and say. Yesterday, I don't know how many hours he's out of here, now he's with some kind of measure, five points. Is that how a responsible institution behaves? Is that how the Croatian National Bank behaves? Certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97150	Thank you. Comrade Lesar, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97151	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I must make a public apology to Mr. Turudic for declaring him President of the Supreme Court. So, I had a lapus. Mr. Turudic, I apologize. I wanted to speak to Mr. Hrvatin, the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97152	Thank you very much. Okay. We're moving on with the replicas. There's a colleague and a colleague, and it happens to those experienced like a colleague called Lesar. The next replica of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97153	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Martincevic, your debate prompted me to an occasion. I was at the bank, and I asked the bank clerk if you trusted your clients. He said of course we did. Then why did you tie your pens? Your debate prompted me to actually troublesome the relationship between the clients and the bank itself. And when we talk about risks, who shares risks in the case of these credits that are risky and could really be citizens or most of the citizens be aware of the risks in which they engage? Banks call loans their product. Imagine that technical product, for example, I'll take a printer. Buy a printer and it really is. Buy a printer at a pretty good price and then they tell you more so listen but the color is the only one we produce for that printer. But they don't tell you that the ingredients of that color can be extremely expensive later on in the market. So you do not have or need to have such specific knowledge to know that this product can later be very dangerous to your financial status. So I think here that the banks knew or had to know what risks the citizens were taking, and they didn't inform them about it. It was said here that the Austrian banks did it. And what struck me yesterday and today I hear that banks in these kind of loans didn't make any money. It is amazing that they offered a product in which they had to know that they were dealing with such a business that was truly risky, but that they allowed such loans in which they did not make a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97154	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97155	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97156	The microphone of a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97157	Excuse me. There are Austrian banks that I mentioned very interesting and as I said just as the Austrian state banned foreign currency lending, the Austrian banks here offered loans in Swiss francs. Afterwards, the trend was accepted so that there would be no confusion and all the other banks. What's controversial here, so a citizen can take a risk or he doesn't have to take a risk. It's, of course, his decision. And if the banks had warned some would have gone into that risk again, some would have been in Swiss francs again. But the point is that banks had to warn, banks in Croatia did not warn. No business bank in Croatia has warned citizens about the risk of loans in Swiss. It is the responsibility of business banks, and also the Croatian National Bank something small as it warned but it has other mechanisms, it should have acted and it was another responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97158	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97159	Dear colleagues, you say the government doesn't make decisions, the government misses opportunities. And I don't understand that god. So what is this law but a government decision? This is an expression of a political will. If you really want it to be a government duty, because it's the government's duty to protect its citizens. Well, I guess we're gonna laminate here, have some academic debates about who's to blame. So who could have known at the time that the Swiss franc would go up like this in his course? Commercial banks? No, they don't, so they don't have a glass ball, and neither do the Croatian National Bank. So even then, commercial banks gave citizens loans in Swiss francs under more favourable conditions with lower interest and it was mutual interest for both banks and citizens. But now that it happened without someone's special guilt and the Croatian National Bank and the commercial banks and the government and the opposition, that the Swiss franc was going wild now needs to do something and there's the government doing it. Between rich banks and poor citizens, the government has decided to protect poor citizens, and you would probably do otherwise. If the government heard the opposition speak of this law, they would say, the opposition is right, we withdraw the proposal. And what would happen? Why are you standing up for it? To keep citizens paying 1,500 or 2,000 kuna bigger wars? To be under wraps? To get them kicked out of their apartments, to lose those properties? That's what the opposition stands for in this House because it's not good for her when the government helps the citizens. Well, I know it may not always be easy for the opposition to admit that the government has made a good move but don't attack it because it helps citizens survive, don't because they're listening to you because they're watching you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97160	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97161	Of course the citizens are listening and watching. I'm just sorry, you were so close to me that you didn't listen to me a little better and more carefully. As far as these firm government decisions are concerned, this government has firmly decided to decide what it will do in a year. I have here today very constructively and very precisely outlined the model. So, I haven't come in and spent 15 minutes criticising that nothing is right, that nothing is good and that this is not a good solution, I said my opinion, or the opinion of the People's Party of Reformist on this solution, and I also offered a very precise model of how to solve the problem, very precisely. I'm sorry you didn't hear him. And I even commended the government, I said you took the first step but it's a fire department. You've done something to stop the citizens from being hit now, but that's not the solution. These are half solutions that can ultimately be worse than any solution. So you have to make a decision and you have to make a solution. I'd be very pleased if you'd listened more carefully, and here I can repeat our solution, it would be good to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97162	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Martincevic, so here's this story, let's say my colleagues, Sagara, reminded me of one moment when the former president of the state, Mr Mesic, called, said as I recall, he says one bank and asked if you had credit? We've got plenty. I think it was post office, and then she says give it to them. See how easy it is with these banks now, you see? That's part of it. And the second part that offered me the replica that you said this proposal did not offer a solution, and it is neither acceptable nor that the thesis my concern shifts to another. You have offered your solution, your thinking and in the debate you have thought and have indeed accurately cited all categories and users of the credit and the judiciary etc. But you didn't, only colleague Lesar remembered one category, no one remembered one category today, and that's the one I advocated. They're farmers, they're O.P.G.s. And look what happened, they're excluded, it's not worth it to them. It is not worth it to them even though 70 percent of them today are almost OPG blocked and difficult to live in such a situation. And then when I hear today he says more times these are state moves this is a wonderful thing, I don't see fellows dear that it's state-owned to let the village go to waste, that these OPGs end up like that, etc., and mostly that there's an inequality going on and it's really unacceptable and I don't think that it's really good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97164	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97165	Here's a dear colleague of mine. I'm glad you've been listening to me. This is just what you said I absolutely agree, so there are the OPGs and there are craftsmen and there are other professional activities that carry out their own activities. So there's a lot of them. This shows that this solution was made in haste, that it was designed to put out the current fire and that it certainly is not and cannot and must not be a permanent solution. And that's why I'd like to invite all the clubs to see this solution that we've proposed, and we're going to suggest it once again if we have to, and in as short a time as possible, we're going to bring a quality system solution that will permanently solve this problem not only for the categories that are listed here but also for those of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97166	Thank you. Next replica Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97167	Dear Mr. President, colleague Martincevic. I agree almost entirely with your debate except for this thought when you said it was citizens' responsibility, you practically relativated it, confirming that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance took credit in francs. No, it does not ablimate our citizens, but it actually proves vice versa that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were careless people with little thought and if they lead the country today they could ask themselves and ask a hundred questions about whether these people can be trusted etc., etc. But I don't want to be so bad, but that's it. As for fellow Stazic who told you and respected this, I regret that the state is making moves. Who trusts him more? It's the same thing as Goebbels '45. talked at the 4th month that Germany would win and the Russians were in the suburbs of Berlin. It's so convincing today, Stazic. Don't let it get to you. So, this government decision, I feel totally sad here, useless, useless. The government is making a decision, please, that we are going to change a law that will be worth a year. If they have solutions we go into a change of law that will be worth forever, if not forever what I know until someone changes it. They can pass a provision of the government with legal powers, and this is only proof of counterpart Martincevic who they are saying about a year ago that they are not convinced that they will win the election, or that they believe they will lose the election. But I don't care who thinks or believes in himself, but I mean that this is absolute proof and confirmation of the government that extraordinary parliamentary elections should take place. This is directly said we're not capable of solving anything, we're going to the election. That's what Milanovic says with this bill. Translated to logic and all the laws of common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97168	Replication response, colleague Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97169	Well, here I have to be honest and it seems a little bit to me that the idea that this problem is finally going to end over a year is someone else's jinx, but I really wish that it wasn't, in the sense that the problem is solved as soon as possible because with this decision and this moratorium for a year we haven't solved anything at all. The same drama will happen to people, to our citizens in a year. So there are high-quality suggestions on how to solve this problem and the government itself should be what it is, unfortunately, not so far, and that is decisive. There is a need for concrete change, for changes to be confirmed, for changes to be made and for our citizens to be helped in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97170	Thank you. Next replica Don Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97171	In fact, there's a question here in Parliament that there are a lot of independent representatives clubs, and as far as I know, I'm the only one who went over the independent list, passed the election, and came to the Parliament. .... /The speaker excluded./... as it is possible that then parties who have not yet been to the elections are promoted in the Assembly, and we do not know their programmes, they are taking a word here on behalf of these parties. That should be resolved in Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97172	My colleague, this is not a replica of my colleague Martincevic, but I suppose it entered the record and you'll get an answer. And I think you know the Rules of Procedure and the functioning of the Parliament. Comrade Martincevic, is there any need to answer, you picked up the plate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97173	Well, Mr. Grubisic is a little confused to me because I don't know any more of those clubs that he's changed in which the club is right now and I can't keep track of his movements around the assembly room, while with the same list where I was. So I was in the 3rd constituency where the holder of the list was Mr. Radimir Cacic. At the time of the Kukuriku coalition, it was a list that won the highest number of mandates, so I stayed where I was, on the list carried by Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97174	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97175	Thank you very much. My colleague Martincevic, you know what will happen in a year unless all those involved in this process reach an agreement, what will be the effect of this law? So whoever had 500 thousand kunas a week ago, today's capital is 600 grand, you know what it's going to be after a year? A little less than 590 thousand kuna, that's true and that's a fact. And that just suggests that this law does not solve anything, opens a possible skeleton in the closet for a future government but without the agreement of three key participants, and these are clients who have loans, these are banks and that's the CNB's permanent problem cannot be solved. The other thing you're saying is that the governor came out with a number, so it would be better if all three of them were in a meeting and everyone came out with their own bill and came up with a solution. However, there is one very convenient thing, today we all glorify Austria and the Austrian governor and how Austria did something. So in the meantime, I got information, and if I got false information, then I apologize to everyone. Yesterday, the governor of the Central Bank of Austria, Euromoney, reported that the total share of all loans in Austria in Switzerland was 18%, in Hungary was 27%, in Poland 12%. Therefore, these are facts and therefore not the Croats are the only ones who escaped, and it is also well known which banks the Swiss came to Croatia. So I repeat this law unfortunately does not solve anything. It would be better to go to a three-month moratorium and simply force the banks, the Central Bank and the citizens to agree on one reasonable amount to bear one part of the burden is that we understand the citizens have already submitted part of the burden because their course is already over 6.39 and before this agreement, but I think that with the agreement we could reach a lower rate that would have fallen to their account.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97176	Thank you. The answer to my colleague, Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97177	I certainly support the proposal that all three parties involved in this problem must agree. As for this information about loans in Swiss that you have just presented in Austria, it may be related to what your colleague Boric is saying all day today, and these are our Croatian citizens who were in charge of Raiffeisen savings in Austria, so they were not informed by Austrian banks, so they thus raised their loans in Swiss. But as far as the CNB and the data are concerned, this is not the kind of version of the data that we're talking about here. This is what Mr. Vujčić said yesterday about the direct deception of the Croatian public. So there was a proposal to encollect loans in Swiss francs into kunas, it was a proposal, loans in Swiss francs. He said that he can't because it would endanger our foreign reserves, which would endanger 73% of our foreign reserves, which would be 7.8 billion euros, which is not true. This is the total amount of all loans, so not only in francs but in francs and euros, so it's a public deception. When we talk about how much this would be if we just made a conversion of Swiss francs of credit into kuna then it is 3.2 billion, or less than 30% of foreign exchange reserves, and that would not endanger the stability of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97178	Thank you. And the last replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Martincevic rightly spoke of responsibility or irresponsibility as saying that if we suffer from foreign banks we do not have to suffer from the CNB, but that is where the circle actually closes. Because whoever allowed these banks to behave like this and what we must actually suffer from because the CNB is, of course, an independent institution, by changing the Constitution in 2010, we further strengthened the independence of the CNB, here is a colleague, Lesar, waving his head, that is, however, the CNB is not independent of Croatian interests or the interests of citizens and citizens, and that is the point. So what I'm saying is, we're independent and we can't mess with each other and we can't interfere incorrectly, so they're dependent on interests. And what exactly is the state's interest? That Croatian citizens and citizens do not fall into debt slavery, that they do not fail, that they are not sick, that they are not at the limit of suicide, etc., that is. And that is why I have already said this before, and now it has been repeated by my colleague Lesar, we as the Croatian Parliament can also appeal that this second, third pillar of the government, so the Supreme Court, that we know what decision is related to the ruling of the High Court of Commerce and that after 4 years, the Constitutional Court will remove this case from the drawer regarding the foreign clause and that it will decide that it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because then we here would be able to consider possible permanent solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97180	Answer, colleague Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97181	I agree with you completely in this part. The Croatian National Bank is an independent institution but all that we have discussed here today is the business and responsibility of the Croatian National Bank. The Croatian National Bank has not done its job. I have said several times today that experts from the Croatian National Bank have paid more than the president of the state and are not doing their job. They're not here to warn anything, that they're saying something, that they're sending some remarks here, they're there to act, that's their job, but of course they're just one link in the chain, the other link is the government, the third link is the Parliament and the fourth link is about which, which you said, and that's the Supreme Court and finally the Constitutional Court that is here and they have to bear their share of responsibility, react in time and not keep these important things and these important cases for over 4 years in drawers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97182	Thank you. My friend, I'll take the trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97183	Honored Vice President, I did not want to report earlier on behalf of the club because I wanted everyone who applied for the replicas to take out their replicas and to have Mrs. Martincevic answer them, but now I am looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the SDP club because my colleague Dujomir Marasovic, replicating my colleague Natalija Martincevic compared me to Goebbels with a notorious Nazi war criminal and this government with the government of the Third Reich at the time when the allies were standing in front of Berlin. We will not sully these insults, even if they came from Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97184	Thank you. HDZ club, okay. I'm setting a break by 13.26 minutes, that's when we start. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:26 A.M.]] Here you go, fellow Stazic, in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97186	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. The SDP club has always strongly supported and continues to support the right of MPs to speak freely in the Assembly, to express their thoughts, their political views in both a dictionary and a way that may be above or greater than what is otherwise used in the academic community. And we don't mean to choke freedom of speech, especially not at the Assembly. The right to a stronger word must have a representative and we as politicians must be able to endure such a speech. But expressing a replica to counterpart Natalija Martincevic, a colleague of Marasovic, said that I was acting to defend this government and this law as Goebbels acted defending Reich when the allies were close to Berlin and when it was clear to him that the Reich war had lost. Comparing fellow MPs with Goebbels, comparing one government, the elected Croatian government, chosen by citizens with Nazi Reich Hitler, pardon that is beyond this measure. It's way beyond this line. The SDP club fully understands HDZ and counterpart Marasovic. We fully understand that this item on the agenda is embarrassing to you because it affects the position of a large number of citizens who have found themselves in a very unfavourable situation and the government is helping them with this political decision and I know that it does some kind of political damage to you or you are experiencing it that way. We understand all that. But dear colleagues and colleagues, we are in the process of developing an ethical code, but even before we bring this code to which we hope to codify these things, I ask that we guard ourselves against these things in the interest of the integrity of this Chamber, in the interest of the dignity of each of the clubs, ultimately in the interest of the dignitaries and the representatives themselves, including Mr Dujomir Marasovic. I've seen the HDZ Club come forward too, and I say hello, my colleague Shucker answered, and I expect the HDZ Club, I think that's why they called, to apologize publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97187	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Reporting for the word of my colleague Stazic, I expected him to publicly apologize to Croatian defenders, who is still a close associate of the current president, called Ku Klux Klanom, on behalf of the president, who called HDZ a hiduced, Kabadiah defender, the Croatian people a stupid nation. Stazic called Croatian defenders..., so with the military wing of HDZ, he called the primitives and barbarians. Milanovic called HDZ and HDSSBs half-world and I could list it so infinitely. I expected him to apologize for it, because if you're looking for some kind of limit for yourself, then you have to offer them to another because she says "old folk," when you want to offend someone, then think about how much it would offend you first, and then you'll never do it. And my colleague Stazic, I personally and I suppose the vice president of the Parliament who runs this session, took this presentation of counterpart Dujomir Marasovica as a figurative term, and he did not mention the Croatian government in any word. Take a look at the phonogram of the session and you will see that there was something like what you said then you would probably be a colleague of Batinić, knowing him as a zealous chairman who did not warn me once, giving a warning to my colleague Marasovic. But it is obvious that the argument of the opposition in this morning’s part makes anxiety on the other hand, and it is obvious that its own vanity and ego are more important than the problems of Croatian citizens. Because looking for a break for something, colleague Stazic, we could've been looking for so many breaks, I don't know how many times someone always comes in. But I'm saying, we've all known each other here for years, and I think that even if a man says a hard word that it's not his intent to insult and hurt someone, at least I think to most MPs. But there's someone who's in constant rhetoric, who likes to use it all the time and likes to get muddled on the other. But I repeat, before you throw mud at someone else and before you hurt someone, think if it would hurt you. And forgive me for saying this to you, I don't mean to personify anyone, but simply figuratively, I'm saying it again so it doesn't turn out that I don't have respect for my fellow MPs. So I expect it. But is this really the government's move to offer something to Croatian citizens? Yeah, he'll offer them. They had a loan war of 500,000, at the end of the year they'll have a war, in fact the principal of the loan, I apologize to 590, to keep the course frozen as it is, and the next government will have arrogant lawsuits. It's the truth of this law. This problem can only be solved if banks, bank clients and the Croatian National Bank are agreed, and if all participate in the process in solidarity, given that Croatian citizens have already paid annuities at both rates 6,39 and 6,24 and higher courses. They practically participated in that part of their work. So obviously it remains that business banks and CNB are agreed and it is not such a large amount and that we are discussing in such a way that nobody's ego would be above the fate and suffering of Croatian citizens. And let's not, you're such a very generous man fellow Stazic and you know it well. And you use once figurative expressions and your colleague Marasovic didn't go and compare you to Goebbels or pull anything. I have no intention of telling him. It was a figurative term, but I repeat in the lack of arguments in one reasoned debate let's go look for a break in switching the topic to something else. It's the same story as today's announcement we'll cancel loans in euro etc. Then ask the question to Prime Minister Milanovic will you remove both Croatian citizens and euro savings? You will return us to the time of the agreed economy when only privileged and those who were expelled from Croatia had the right to foreign exchange savings. Because if you're giving all the credits in kunas, then the active banks must be in kunas. So that's another set of questions they've been opening. And my colleague Stazic would like to end with this, my colleague Marasovic, without the intention of justifying him, has not called you or compared you to Goebbels, but simply used something figurative. But I think you're the last one to complain about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97189	Thank you. My colleague Marasovic, you didn't get your word. My colleagues and colleagues, we'll stop working. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97190	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, a colleague of Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97191	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the last few days decisions that have a lot of impact on life in Croatia. The decision of the National Bank of Switzerland on no longer to protect the Swiss exchange rate, today we expect a decision from the Central Bank of Europe that will likely make decisions on how to help the European economy strengthen exports, stabilise and in some ways the central bank tries to influence the stability of the euro area and European member states. These are all decisions that have a lot, a lot of unpleasant impact on the financial markets, so that is why the simple Swiss has again strengthened, and therefore all those who have debts in Swiss have certain problems. In front of us is one of the first dilemmas whether to solve a problem that has emerged with the Swiss franc or to solve our really long, long-standing problem, which is to save citizens in foreign exchanges and currency clauses. The assessment of our club is that it is such a difficult situation for the franc that we should not lose in strategic discussions whether to solve monetary policy issues of the currency clause but rather focus on the problem of how to solve the Swiss issue. And if we focus only on this problem I believe that solutions can be found far easier than if we are now trying to solve all other problems like debts in euro, such as debts in dollars. There is one more question that we need to answer if we are to find the right solutions is the skating of the Swiss franc course and further possible? Then it is enough to answer ourselves with the question of what is the situation of the Swiss economy and what countries of the European Community. And then we'll see that even a very high course in the Swiss franc had no impact on the Swiss economy. Which means that there is no need for intervention of the National Bank of Switzerland, that the economy will be able to bear it and no matter how threatened the export economy of Switzerland is, it will be able to handle it and will have no greater impact on the economy. And we know very well that all the measures taken in the European Community have not produced results and that the competitiveness of the European economy is weak compared to the Far East, the countries of America independently north or south. And in such findings where businesses show us that stability will fall in Europe, and that we will continue to strengthen francs for the sake of interest to transfer our money, our assets, our transactions to francs just means that we will still have problems with francs. So let's focus on the Frank solution. The club will support the bill sent by the government, although we believe there are three shortcomings. The first flaw is that the course is frozen for a year. Thus, whether or not the government wanted to experience severe criticism that the problem simply pushes under the carpet, waits for the elections and someone to handle it behind the elections. The government shouldn't have allowed it and it didn't take her a year, especially if it's just a temporary solution that doesn't offer a permanent solution. and it is evident that a permanent solution can be found if we have a joint agreement of all participants to try to find a common solution. The second weakness of this measure is that there are no social criteria. When you make a decision where you use your law to make a smaller profit or damage to a page, here we really reduce profits by banking and financial systems then at least we have to have a social criterion. We don't have it here. To all those affected by the Consumer Loans Act, it means not to everyone in charge of francs but only to those who fall under the Consumer Loans Act we freeze. Whether they are financially strong people, people with significant wealth, or they are the most endangered group of citizens who are unfortunately their life problems with an unfavourable product of banking, Swiss franc. That's another problem. And the third problem is that if you have one year of time as the government has given itself a weakness in its negotiating position, there is not enough tension not enough will to find a solution that is permanent within a short period of two or three months. And these are the three weaknesses that I think we could very much solve if we put in the social clause and in some way reduce the deadlines that are indicated here that this temporary measure is taking place. And, of course, it's essential if we have any suggestions on how to deal with this problem permanently. and we have already heard certain proposals from party representatives, including the club of independent representatives to which I belong also has a proposal for a solution. And the proposal is based on an analysis of the causes of this crisis, strengthening the Swiss economy, strengthening the francs, weakening the euro and a very unstable situation with the European economy, which means a Swiss franc should be resolved. And that's one solution, and it's almost the only thing that's forced us to simply convert all the bank's duties into Swiss francs, all the duties in Swiss francs. And that conversion doesn't have to be in the kuna, it can be in the euro. It all depends on how the bill will show what the cost of conversion is, but all the credits of banks in Swiss francs need to be settled, and then we need to convert to the citizens of the businessmen all those who have Swiss francs into the contract or with the currency clause for the euro, because we are linked to the economy we belong to or even far more favourable kuna. And now I believe that it is possible in two months to sit down, agree, sign even to execute a transaction. It remains a matter of agreement on the cost of the transaction, whether or not the participants can agree on the cost of the transaction, the conversion. And it is evident that this is where we should start from the National Bank that must bear part of the cost of that conversion, that there must be a financial sector but there will be a part of the citizens. And we still need to find through the social clause simply or criteria that one part of the burden goes to the richer ones, and that there is essentially no burden on those who have tried to provide themselves with living space. Now, instead of them in one part, I think it would be acceptable to charge the state budget. And then we have four participants who can agree on that transaction. But the basic answer is we're fighting a problem that has been imposed on us by the Swiss franc, and let's not solve the deluges of our loans that are in all kinds of currencies and exchange rates that we haven't solved so far. At that point, if we access the agreements like this, it is possible and also what I want to stress is possible and to find a solution to how to distribute the cost of conversion. At that moment, the conflicts that can cause no permanent solution in the next year is evident that the banking system will not wait calmly for a year, but will start certain judicial processes and we do not need conflicts in Croatia in this crisis field. We need more arrangements, more understanding. So there's a solution. The story of how we can look for a solution and property management is a very risky story. If we want to talk about asset problems, the drop in value, then we have to change the basic principles of lending. It won't be mortgage anymore, it'll be... credits where the burden will fall on banks that banks if they can't collect will take the property independently of what the value of that property is, regardless of what the value of that property is. So if we don't want any more social impact, let's just turn around and get rid of the conversion of the loan itself. Here we also heard debates about Raiffeisen Savings, there is a very simple solution of the Ministry of Justice itself. Raiffeisen's savings bank was unauthorized in Croatia, it had no authority, it could not work in Croatia. Many notebooks have unauthorizedly intervened in all of this, many intermediaries and that is why the National Bank did not grant approval. The justice ministry has no problem in terms of unauthorized activity on the Croatian market can suspend and only it can suspend the assets. And we discussed it, but unfortunately there was no will. So I think at this point we need to send a message to suspend the execution because it acted unauthorizedly. Also, the National Bank of Austria has sanctioned and seized the authority of Raiffeisen's savings. Which means she didn't even work under Austrian regulations. But that means that we should find a solution to how citizens can pay off certain funds as well as all other citizens, to deposit it somewhere and then find a solution with Austria. So the purely legal problem, the clean problem of the Justice Department, and I think that's simply what solutions have to be found. If we really cut the deadline, I think it would help the government because all the participants in the agreement would be able to focus on a solution because if the solutions are permanent they will not be in the next 2, 3 months of the law that we are also going to support will cause huge problems both to the state budget and to the citizens themselves because it is not a permanent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97192	Now we'll move on to replicas. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97193	Yeah, yeah, I agree, social clause. All morning, gentlemen, I have been warning the MEPs that the European Central Bank is on the market, which was just announced at 14.30 p.m. on 60 billion euros a month. The euro has weakened according to the US dollar to 1.1538. So now the Swiss could have jumped to 8.5 and maybe 9. Now, whether this will help through exports to the European economy remains to be seen. He announces, the governor of the Central European Bank, that the interest should remain the same. I'll say once again, if a dollar grows, Swiss grows. I said he's somewhere at 8.5. We'll see about tomorrow. The Croatian National Bank today sold 326.6m euros, which is cca. 2.5 billion kuna. So they're aware of what's going on. There are more and more bad loans in Croatia. Credits are dropping, the Croatian economy is getting worse, unfortunately stagnating in January. Who will solve the problem of the euro? The problem with Swiss is a sweet mother to the euro problem. Will the Kuna remain stable? If she is questioned, the whole country will be simply on a beggar stick. Never the banks, never the debtors, never the Croatian National Bank, have the government been more committed to each other. What am I saying? That the swear should simply be kept as the pupil of his eye. To paraphrasise that statesman, military leader and politician, and then that means that the euro needs to be kept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97194	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97195	I would not agree with my colleague Cain that the problems we now have on the European market and the European economy will have an impact on the exchange rate of the euro. We are simply part of that economy related to that market, therefore it is essential that we do not expect major changes in that part. That's really not gonna happen. The problem of the kuna will be if we don't control government deficits and if our debt is growing publicly because we haven't solved our structural problems. This is what can significantly affect the course of the kuna according to the euro. So let us not send the wrong messages because it is simply not good when we have a certain fear of any activity in the Republic of Croatia. I think that the kuna and the euro will be stable, in that part we don't have to be afraid, we're just running politics and spending and reform so that we keep the kuna, and that's the only way we can keep it. I expect greater exports of Croatia towards the euro, so that is the stability of the kuna again. And not to mention a tourist season that is very, very favourable to the euro. Our basic problem is going to be a dollar that will boost but I'd say it's useful because the stronger dollar, and the good part of the financial transactions in exports is in dollars, so it's going to mean more inflows to us. The basic problem and the basic thing to solve is the Swiss franc and we have no right to delay the problem. But now in the same package, we're going to put the franc and the euro in the same package, and we're going to jeopardize the kuna, and we can't afford that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97196	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97197	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, I listened carefully to your reasoned presentation and since you were also Minister of Finance and I see that you have certain ideas that even in my debate I meant to highlight. In fact, this period of one year, in fact, you've been well-detecting that it's my concern that I move on to another, after the election, how it's going to be and what it's going to be. So if he had a good will, that deadline would really be about three months so that all the factors in this matter would agree on a foreign exchange game, to agree on how to solve this problem. And I agree and we agree at the club that it's just a conversion. How to do that is now a thing to say both techniques and goodwill among those factors that should solve it. But there's something else you might be, I won't say you forgot, namely, and the state is in charge of commercial banks. So it would be good and interesting to have information today and here is Mr. Radjenovic, how many states are in charge, for example. Not only in euro or in dollars, but also in Swiss francs. How much does the State collect, therefore, to private, natural persons who have raised loans in Swiss francs, etc. So you should see the state balance against this problem, that's one thing. And now it seems that when we listen to all this and we go back a little bit to history, in the nearest history, how much does it actually cost us to sell, capitalize and sell banks to foreigners who now rule our banks at some 98 percent amount. And even the Government of the Republic of Croatia's payment traffic leads not through the Croatian Post Bank, the only Croatian-owned bank but through some other commercial banks. I'm not saying there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97198	Thank you, dear colleague Boro.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97199	Okay, thank you, too, not to be too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97200	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97201	... there's no duty in Swiss because we've just never taken a lower interest because it's simply a currency that has its own risks. [[Specially enabled.]] So we have most of our debts in euro, unfortunately something in dollars, and we see that the dollar is growing, so that is, that is, but the euro was so interesting for European countries for a time, so you could only borrow in dollars because they were not there. Thus, the state carries its burden of trouble. It is essential to stop the government's task, but to stop this, reforms and pension systems need to be implemented, restructuring state-owned companies, not to list everything else. Therefore, the state will all bear their exchange rates and interest through the tax system. It is always essential to address the problem of individual groups of citizens who are in difficulty and how to find a solution for them, and it is evident that such crises can be found together with other actors and financial banking institutions and the People's Bank, and that is why we must try to find a solution there. And let's try to understand something, the privatisation of banks has enabled a huge number of loans. Citizens who wanted insufficient funds from their own incomes are provided with accumulation. The economy wanted it, therefore a strong banking system always needs Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97202	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97203	Dear counterpart Linic, in your debate, you also spoke about Raiffeisen Bank, which is a savings company that has acted unauthorizedly on the Croatian market. It is absolutely certain that this should put an end to the performance of those people who are no longer able to pay those loans. The other thing is, every time we say let's not go back in time. All those who have taken these loans and who have actually been deceived, robbed, they are very much returning to the past and cursing that past. And I certainly can't say that the Croatian state worked because how these financial operations were carried out on Croatian territory, which is not that they were undetectable and allowed. And they even say in Austria you said that Raiffeisen didn't work under Austrian regulations. So they also declared it illegal. I don't know, that's why you said... to the Justice Department you transferred. Legal experts should say whether they should have broken those contracts if they were made without any permission. If they're against the law, let's protect these people. These people deserve it. In fact, it's an obligation for the state to protect them, too. It's even bigger crime, so someone was working on the Croatian market, giving loans unauthorized, and even from Austria and Austria, they say they act unauthorized. I think the situation is clear. Now it's all up to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97204	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97205	Raiffeisen's savings bank did not have the authority of the National Bank to operate in the Croatian area so that monetary transactions were done mostly in Austria in exposures or in the head office of Raiffeisen's savings bank and paid cash. Also in Croatia, some mediators carried the money and illegally, illegally shared the money. The Ministry of the Interior has complete reports on these illegal activities. Therefore, it was illegal transactions. At the same time, because of these illegal transactions, the National Bank of Austria seized the power to operate the savings bank. The biggest problem is that they only provided themselves legally through the mortgage notebooks, and then these same notebooks today have to carry out mortgages on a warrant because the Ministry of Justice did not decide that everything that was illegal, and that was illegal, could not be done, with us in the financial area also thinking that citizens do not have the right to that money but that they have to return that money. But if they have problems so they can't get... funding, reprogrammes, then it's something that the state can handle, but first of all it needs to stop the execution. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is also able to find a solution to how citizens must repay their debt, but to make it appropriate for them to make their incomes available. So the move is at the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97206	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97207	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what happened with the Frank course is an illustration that we were actually sitting on a time bomb the whole time. She didn't break for the first time. It happened a few years ago when he slipped from 4.6 to 5.4, 5.6. He's caused a few fires at this point, not just one. This bill offers a solution in the short term and in part for the biggest fire, because we are discussing the Government's proposal to intervene in a law relating to consumer credit for only natural persons, so not those with whom it burns, and they took credit in francs, and they deal with the family agricultural economy, not craftsmen, not those who are in charge as free professions. They also exploded a bomb called the Swiss franc, and there was also a fire. There are also 15 exceptions to this Article 3 of that law which are not subject to the law, and even any exchange rate fixation will not apply to these loans. But the governor of the Croatian National Bank announced that 25% of the debtors in the clause have 66% of the debt, so they are 25%, 66% of the debt, that they are people with relatively high income and that they have loans of about a million and above millions of kuna. It was published today in the media. Exception, one of the exceptions in this law in Article 3 does not apply to loans of more than one million kuna. To consider her, Mr. Radenovic, did this million-dollar limit be reduced? Because if the CNB warns that it is loans that were not for the first and only housing unit, but obviously for other purposes, then it is one measure that could have, with what counterpart Linic said, the social dimension. That is not what she was concerned about, so no one, the government has considered this possibility, and these data presented by the governor of the Croatian National Bank are indeed as I have read to you. The exchange rate fixation, therefore only applies to loans not only but also to deposits bearing the currency clause in them, and there is a reason why banks are terribly opposed, because they introduced the moment, even before, when they put the product in the Swiss market, they also gave savings in Swiss, the currency clause. The currency savings are in foreign exchanges, the kuna is in kunas. And by creating these two new products they later turned into an argument why the currency clause should not be touched. But the real reason the bank's opposition is deposit and savings with the currency clause. The currency clause on loans and deposits is a product some say with a mistake, and another broken product, a dangerous product. When Toyota found that she had placed a dangerous product on the market of her car, she pulled it out of the market and lost $10 billion. This is how you treat a dangerous product that is placed on the market. First, in April 2011, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Agency... warns that public and private sector debt is high in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also a written warning from the European Central Bank and a recommendation from the Croatian National Bank to reduce the use of the foreign exchange clause to reduce Croatia's vulnerability to possible sudden changes in the movement of the Euro and other currencies. A few days after the hand-delivered from the financial market, the financial markets disappear in francs after this warning. Never explained why. That's exactly why. The euro, of course, and other currencies were not discussed. Next. A ban on foreign exchange clauses, currency clauses cannot cause any expense. Any intervention into the law relates to the future. Therefore, fearing that a ban on the currency clause would cause at this point any cost is not correct. However, in the seventh month of 2011, I proposed an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Relations and the ban on the currency clause. The then government gave a negative opinion. The debate is not open because, in the meantime, the Parliament is disbanded. In July 2012, we repeat the same proposal. By amending the Law on Mandatory Relationships of the Currency Clause. The government gives a negative opinion. The government's negative opinion, the current government, 80% of its content, has a copy of the July 2011 opinion. And here in the Parliament, it was called a dangerous proposal, that's exactly what I'm saying. It's a dangerous proposal. Yesterday, however, we heard from the prime minister that he was also calling for and calling on the Constitutional Court's words on the assessment of constitutionality. So it calls for a possible ban on the foreign exchange clause. That's exactly what it meant. In July, when we proposed it for the second time in 2012, the Swiss was at 5.6 and many were already in big gables. And then you didn't see this kind of debate if the motion to ban the currency clause wasn't good, or is it a dangerous suggestion to make solutions? No solutions have been offered by either the Government or the CNB. Article 22 of that same law contains, I will be ironic, and the possibility that instead of the Swiss bank clause in Croatia, I will apply the golden clause. For the purposes of this Article, the value of the contractual liabilities in the currency of the Republic of Croatia shall be calculated on the basis of the price of gold or the exchange rate of the Republic of Croatia in relation to a foreign currency. Therefore, banks can automatically propose contract annexes and offer a gold clause instead of francs and comply with the law. We don't need to discuss it or change it, so let's keep it. These are dangerous suggestions, everyone who thinks and talks about it. But now we have a fire. Not one but far more of them. And we're dealing with a proposal that only in consumer lending, we only fix the course of the franc for a year to the citizens. The conversion into kunas of all currencies, of course, which cannot be done immediately, but now we are engaged in francs, can be calculated and obtained a decision or vote for or against only when finally the CNB, or its governor, its lordship, is published in which the currency and the bank was in debt when loans were placed. The Poles set up an investigative committee a few days ago to investigate where the currency of banks that provided loans to the French clause was in debt. We have to form such an investigative commission or the CNB is Croatian, not Pakistani, as the prime minister said yesterday, so will the data give you? This information also depends on the calculation of the possible cost of conversion. However, what is conversion? An indirect ban on foreign exchange clauses, one currency. If we agree to convert all loans and liabilities from franc to kuna, then it's an indirect ban on currency clauses in Swiss. It then requires and intervenes in the Law on Mandatory Relations, so that even in the future this would not happen because this conversation solves existing contracts backwards, not in the future. And then in our law we must clearly write there is no currency clause in the Swiss franc and we must intervene in the Law of Mandatory Relations because conversion is nothing more than a ban. If we don't want to do it again after a year, two of us have a situation. For conversion, it is necessary to fix the course. I'm not a fan of the moss to accept the proposal, the course, when the contract is concluded. And there's exactly the most important point of the deal at which the course will be converted if it comes to it. And there's a point that the CNB has to negotiate with both consumers and banks. Not to wait for consumers to negotiate themselves with banks, but the CNB must conduct these negotiations in order to reach the agreement. And that is why we believe that this proposal is so engaged as it really is is a fire measure and a buy-in of time. I don't know why, if it's not about the election. In order for it to be complete, and we need to discuss outside the government's proposal, we need to, because we are not solving it, we are not putting out the fire until the end, we need to open a debate and ban the implementation of the tasks that are under way, and it concerns loans, contracts with Swiss. For what? Because we're running a lawsuit and we're waiting for the word of the Supreme Court. Since 12.08 last year, the Supreme Court was unable to make a decision and the fire was on fire. Here's the government saying fire's on fire, burning 60,000 people plus 60,000 guarantees, plus 60,000 Sudanese. Someone says 5,000 people have already been kicked out of their apartments. The Supreme Court has time. Second, January 26, 2011. The Constitutional Court has received a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality. They don't decide, but the fire burns. And when will you get involved to help the executive and parliamentary authorities shut down and prevent possible other fires that can happen? You can see that this is how we discussed it when we proposed a ban on the currency clause, if then they'd sought solutions and recognized the dangers, maybe today there wouldn't be 22 billion kunas of citizens' debt expressed in francs and 60,000 victims, there might be only 5,000. But we'd still have to deal with them, to get along. This temporary measure may have a period of use of 3 months, all above that being counterproductive. And think about it if you want support, of course. Secondly, at this point in time, I agree that the conversion of Swiss into kuna by my colleague Linic, I would say in kuna, with the agreement on a fixed course that the CNB must lead. Third, Raiffeisen Savings, 20,000 people. You heard a colleague Linic, an illegal business on the Croatian market in which public notebooks participated, certifying false documents and conducts illegal contracts and transactions by the Croatian judiciary. And what's more, the debtors are returning the wars to the account and the codes they got from the CNB. Therefore, the CNB of each of these users knows, each transaction to Austria also knows users on the other hand. The state's attorney's office has hundreds of kilos of documents on the subject, hundreds of kilos of evidence that it was anti-zocony business, nothing, nothing done. What are we gonna do with these people? The Swiss is in there. This is not a proposal that solves it. We find that foreign savings banks, foreign financial institutions mixed in Croatia, knew about it, we perform the tasks and thus recognise the illegality of their business in Croatia. The Austrians took their license, the Austrian State's Attorney's Office launched an investigation. Long live the Croatian State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97208	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97209	Thank you very much. You spoke of a dangerous product and an example of the withdrawal of a dangerous product. Of course, this is also a dangerous and incorrect and corrupt, toxic product that has been operating on the market for years. And all of this is what those who are in charge and authorized and responsible for it must not be. And you said that the product was a time bomb, but that time bomb wasn't just a time bomb for housing users. It is a time bomb that has already destroyed entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, which has driven many away and made life worse, and many and ended life, and all of which at all levels we have seen for years and politicians, and most of them there in the CNB who have paid 36,000 kunas more than 70 percent more pardon than the Prime Minister, 70% more than the president of the state, twice as much as the state's attorney, and 2.5 times as much of us here. Imagine having that kind of pay and not having any responsibility. Then someone did a hell of a job on this country. Great! You're also talking about these illegal loans, so who is if cocaine shows up on the market illegally, the police arrests them. If something illegal appears on the financial market, it is known who should prevent it either HANFA or HNB. If it's a banking business, it's a CNB. Nothing, that's what they watched, and now you're attacking public notebooks. I think you've lost it. Public notebooks did their job, verified what was brought to them, verified the signatures. They didn't approve the illegal documents, no, they didn't, but the CNB was supposed to ban such a product, but she was also looking at trams when they share, so answer the phone and no one even knows who they are. I've been here publicly for five years now, such a ballot has never responded to the CNB. That's what she allowed, it suits them... negligent for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97210	Take care of the weather. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97211	Due to the shortness of time around the public notebooks we will later even exchange evidence have confirmed... You mentioned CNB and a broken product, I'll quote the former governor of the CNB in response to the replica. "As regards the possible ban on the use of the currency clause on loans, this issue is regulated in Article 21i 22. The law on mandatory relations and is outside CNB's jurisdiction. The governor also pointed out at the above-mentioned meeting that the currency clause reduces the CNB's maneuvering space in defending the stability of the kuna, but also makes it difficult to introduce the euro into Croatia, but for this responsibility it bears towards Mr Rohatinski Vlad of the Republic of Croatia." It was said when the franc was at 5.6, not 4.6, 5.6. Compare this statement to yesterday's statements by the current governor. What's the difference? Nothing. That I forgot to forgive my colleague Maric, the continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97212	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97213	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned this bill as a fire measure to your colleague Lesar. Well, I agree with one of the fire departments could be localizing fires, but this is really just localizing. So we don't know when the fire can break out. That's why I'm going back to that debate a little while ago, and I'd like to read part of the verdict for all the banks that have been sued, the judgments of the Trade Court. So for all, it is the same formulation where it is said, "It is found that this and this bank has, during this and that period, violated collective interests and consumer rights, users of credits for including credit agreements using the same zero and unfair contractual provisions in consumer credit agreements in Swiss franc contracts that, before and at the time of the conclusion of the contract, this and this bank as a trader did not fully inform consumers" etc. So that formulation is the same for everyone. And in the final statement, the verdicts under point 10 are prohibited by the defendants of such or similar treatment in the future. It's a first-degree verdict, which is why I'm reading parts of the verdict and nothing to anyone. So we still don't know if the Trade Court decided in accordance with the Constitution, the laws, in my opinion, is and there are no consequences. So I return everything to that little previous debate, that we have this decision, above all, to the second-degree and final Supreme Court, absolutely certain that the decision of any government would be simpler and of course it would have consequences then and for the conduct of the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97214	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97215	My colleague Kosor, it's very useful that you quoted part of the first-degree verdict that was made, in the second-degree, then something was... I don't know if in this part. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not in this part, it's great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But look at the absurd now. All of us, so panic has arisen, we're all dealing with this problem, we have different suggestions and ideas, and those who are obliged to decide, make a final decision, act like it's none of their business. They're getting paid a little bit. [[Intruder: Their small salary.]] But there is something else, in the Croatian legal system, that even this decision, this verdict is justified for damaged consumers, citizens must come to their right to press an individual lawsuit, an individual lawsuit to create their own because there is no automation or our system does not know that in the event of such a judgment all the banks that had such contracts and all the signatories of the contract as consumers automatically exercise their right to do so. What's that, we've told 60,000 lawsuits to exercise their right to a verdict because the court found that it was illegal? And then we will say, we will reform the Croatian judiciary to make it effective, fast and simple. When we were reforming the judiciary, we forgot about it obviously. But if at least a final verdict had been passed, if the Constitutional Court had responded, there would have been no political debate but would have been held by the court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97216	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97217	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue on what my colleague Lesar said earlier, I went to Raiffeisen Bank because I had one loan in Swiss francs and asked if you would bring it back to me yourself or if I were to sue you. Well, they told me to wait until New Year's, so we'll see. If I don't hear from them, then I can sue them. I'm gonna have to leave now these days to see if we can make another deal. But that's why our former governor of the Croatian National Bank or how someone here speaks very often, and I am deeply disturbed by the National Bank of Croatia as the prime minister spoke here yesterday at the current afternoon, the National Bank of Croatia, although it became the Croatian National Bank 25 years ago, so it was awarded or recognised as the best governor in the world. I expect that both colleagues, sorry not colleagues, his colleague Vujčić will get an Oscar and also for not acting but also for the governor of Croatia, or the best governor, at least the Croatian National Bank, then the vio vice governor. What to say after such a strong and very detailed debate on all aspects of this to say in the end, let's say, let's get down to it, that I don't owe you the title of this Consumer Credit Act. The problem is clearly this exchange clause, which stands four years larger and in the Constitutional Court. The problem is that the citizens were to say, in some ways, not familiar with the options. The problem is that we don't trust ourselves in our kuna, so we keep foreign currency savings mostly in foreign exchanges, there's little savings in kunas. I don't know exactly the ratio of saving citizens, 75% in foreign exchanges, yes. So what to say about it, we had little faith in that former state's dinar, so it was passed on to the kuna, and then there was a large part of the savings in the euro or in another foreign currency. It would be interesting what a colleague said before me to see how the banks were, so in which currency the banks were in charge to lend loans in Swiss francs. Because it's obvious they had knowledge and they have the knowledge that it's the most rewarding and the best. Here, my neighbor, therefore who was in debt 6 7 years ago in a Swiss franc loan for some 370 thousand tells me that he is now in debt so after 2009, then the franc was 4.9 kuna, now, every hour is growing, I think that when we are now talking about which hour will be immediately a few kunas more. This is amazing, so one geometric progression almost increases the value of francs compared to other currencies. So now he owes 530 thousand kuna. We all say that the interest rate is the one that's two-digit, so I'm saying more than 10%, as soon as 10 percent and more is the interest rate. And you see, the value of this gentleman's loan to my neighbor has increased by 50%. Is that, I don't know what to call them, is it a foundry or a super-interest business. And now, chief, the main one has grown, given the increase in bankruptcy, and the main one has grown. From 4.90 to 7.70. He now owes almost twice as much as 50%. The principal, and what about the interest that this bill makes for me. But I'm asking Mr. Deputy, if I were to be in debt or anyone or that neighbor of mine and I wanted to repay the loan by raising some other loan in euros or in kunas, can I do that? I can't. This is a law that applies exclusively to the payment of war, interest in Swiss francs. The principal as Mr. Shuker said, it grew from 500 to 590 grand in the last few days, and who knows how much longer it's going to grow. And she stays. She stays still. What does that mean? If we kept this measure in this form as we have now passed this law, if we kept forever, all those who returned loans in Swiss francs would all be extended because the principal had grown. They're returning interest now, and when will they return the principal? So he would pay them back from 20 to 50, until he died or his children paid him back interest and his grandkids would pay him back interest. We have brought our citizens and these banks, whatever they are called, domestic or foreign, whatever they are, into debt slavery by inaction. And the Croatian Parliament, here is the honour of Mr. Lesar, who tried to propose a bill to the Croatian Parliament to discuss it, and it failed, given that the government gave a negative opinion to others here, to bring Croatian citizens into debt and well if Mr. Vujčić was here today, I wanted to say Rohatinski but Vujčić, and it would be good for the minister of justice to tell him everything that this aspect is related to both sides. This debate is also tied to the Minister of Justice, but also to the Governor of the CNB, as it is officially called. What would you suggest for Croatian citizens to be freed? Which is the first goal of debt slavery, to be free citizens, not to be bound for the rest of their lives by this very financial I would say, I will not say to malversions but to this kind of engineering that happened in the Republic of Croatia. Could the Croatian Government have done anything about this or any other matter, I do not mention the SDP Kukurik Vlad or any other, therefore that HDZ is the same thing. Were we supposed to take the initiative in the House to keep this from happening? It's true that banks are foreign and you see how little is here today, and very often you use the term banking industry and the banking product. What are banks making? Scarfs or screws, whatever you want or I don't know what. What kind of production is banking production, don't tell me about the banking industry. When you enter that factory, then you open the golden doorknobs, you can't handle the mirrors, I don't know the crystal, so you see the strength, the value, the strength. And let's look at the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. People in the Republic of Croatia work and receive salaries exclusively in kunas. They return and pay loans in kuna, and you bind to the Swiss franc or to the euro, etc. You don't get no one back either if you're doing credit in Swiss francs, you don't get a Swiss franc in the bank, you're turning it into kuna. You don't get money in francs or in euro or in dollars, but in kunas and you repay credit in kunas. And what is played behind this exchange and exchange rate and exchange clause is actually a game, a game in which Croatia goes into debt, the citizens of Croatia go into debt slavery. Can we get rid of that thing, can we stop it, can we now try to get the government's attempt to get 60,000 citizens into debt slavery to stop this measure? Yes, we stopped, I said already this part of the interest, but the principal stands and not only stands but by changing the course and the constant growth here for every second of the kuna is even higher. It's increasing every second. What is the key to a solution or a conversion as my colleague Linic said, we are in doubt either in kuna or in the euro, there we can observe differently but those who are participants in the game, so CNB, commercial banks, those who have been credited in euro and Croatian Government, any one of which, not at all, does not matter which one must find a solution in this regard. According to fellow Toyota, she produced the wrong ones, or the wrong ones, pulled him out and stared him in order to say that he lost 10 billion euros in Bosnia so that something... and that. But we have to stick to it and lead our citizens to freedom. When we talk about freedom, we're not talking about World War II or the Homeland War, but about breathing through, to be as financially as solid and free at last. The worst is when someone slaps you not in the face but in your pocket, it's much harder, it's much worse, and it's happening right now. And then we're talking about this non-saving company Raiffeisen, but the cooperative is called some kind of, is that what it's called, a cooperative. No contracts signed in Austria, contracts were signed here in Zagorje, Međimurje, etc. because they had their own runners who came to Croatia and signed contracts. Yeah, if it's an illegal store, if the CNB didn't give permission to work... the work of that Raiffeisen cooperative called Raiffeisen, it's very strange and apparently has nothing to do with Raiffeisen Bank. There'd be a lot to say about that. If she worked illegally, if she worked unauthorizedly, then there are three adjectives: unauthorized, illegal or illegal, whatever you want to take. What is Mr. Orsat Milenić waiting for? So every day we look at this living wall and not without a living wall of execution, emigration forced, the Croatian police intervened, 50 officers arrive, and it comes out, and it all costs at the end. And it also costs that process of eviction and the executive procedure cost. What are we doing to ourselves, the Croatian state and the Croatian peoples? And we're here today to say so much about grandma. There aren't any more parties. We don't need to talk about it at all. Within three months, well, this measure is now what it is. But within three months it should be given, here and the conclusion some kind of solution must be made in a way that is not only agreed, but I think that the first place in these talks and agreements should be the one that is in power and the Croatian government as a representative of the Croatian state and the Croatian people. I recorded a lot while listening to each other's discussions. Who raised the value of the Swiss franc? Who's the one who decided to go to heaven with the Swiss franc? The Swiss Central Bank. Who should react in Croatia to that? Well, the Croatian National Bank, first of all, was first in Austria, Mr. Governor. For me, it would be a state of war where you must return from Austria urgently. I don't know what kind of job you have. But after he came back, did he ski, didn't ski, didn't matter what he was doing, but then he had to intervene. And even come here to the Croatian Parliament because the situation is so dramatic that it requires the governor of the Croatian National Bank to discuss it here with representatives of the Croatian Parliament and to decide what attitudes will be taken towards commercial banks and according to this situation in Europe not only in Croatia. And what do we have? We're having a little debate today where we're making suggestions, we're citing cases, we're complaining and we're complaining together with our citizens, we're trying to do something. What are we going to have from this debate? We will clearly adopt this proposal of yours, Mr. Radenovic. Of course we will always be on hand, at the service of the citizens, and this is the measure in which what came out in the first wave as one moratorium, one that says apartment by, to only do something, to prevent what is happening in Croatian society, and we know that in the Republic of Croatia, the number of suicides was once the largest in Hungary in Europe, and today Croatia is at the suicide rate in the first place. Not just the defense attorney, but other people. Therefore, it is also necessary to say that this measure of yours does not alter any contractual obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here they say the banks will appeal to the Constitutional Court. Let them complain. Here's to complain because nothing's changed in the contract. It doesn't change anything. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97218	Comrade Boro, time's up. But you have seven replicas, so you will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97219	I can. No problem. Thank you very much. We will support it as a temporary measure to say, but we are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97220	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97221	Thank you. In the first part of your debate, you wondered what caused this situation or what caused it. Today, there are many reasons for the causes. I personally think that I am adding that the main cause is the economic situation in which Croatia is located, incompetence, high debt, seven-year recession, small number of employees, low wages and the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, that this is actually the main reason. Because if all economic indicators were reversed, then the Croatian Parliament would, in fact, make it much easier for Croatian society to actually deal with this situation and probably be paid by Croatian citizens for slightly bigger credit rates than those in the euro. Let's not forget that the euro has slipped at least five, six, seven percent in the last few months or a year two. So, on the other hand, of course the Croatian government, if we are to speak frankly, that the Croatian government that has to knock on that gilded door every year and ask the same banks for a few billion euros or a few dozen billion kunas that the Croatian government doesn't have exactly as free hands as we would like to have or that it would have to do the same thing every year that the state really isn't over-indebted as it is. I think it's some reality after all. And of course on the third hand that we would all like what's best to break the currency clauses, deal with banks, deal with everything and drive on. However, I think that all together, and sometimes we ourselves, too, should see little of this Croatian reality as it is. I don't mean just your debate now, but some more simply watch what is actually realistically possible at this moment at which Croatia is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97222	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97223	Thank you very much. My colleague Djurovic, I don't know if you were here, but if you did, you heard your fellow Linic debate and yes, I didn't quote too much, but what he said and these are social criteria. No, it's said to be 25% of the 65,000, that's about 15,000 people. Debts total 22 billion at 18 billion. So 25% is 18 billion kuna, and the other 75% is only 4 billion kuna. That means the one who bought his first apartment, the young couple who took that loan to secure myself some kind of a nest and all their nests aren't the same as the one who took the credit in the Swiss and bought the yacht. So, we haven't made a selection according to social criteria, and in fact, in some sense here, all those who have raised consumer loans are affected, so regardless of their social status, and we have this very situation that we now have. But, well, it's a long debate and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97224	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, if you look at the government's argument, then it becomes unclear to me what we've been discussing all day because the government is precisely in its explanation why it goes with this law against its proposal and everything because it says, says a loan approved in the amount of 120 thousand Swiss francs, period etc., and annuity of 620 Swiss francs. No one got a loan of 120,000 Swiss francs but got a loan in value. His annuity was also an equivalent of that. And now watch, how quickly an act came into existence that has a purely political dimension, and practically nothing at all. More like '95. The government of the Republic of Croatia, then Prime Minister Mr. Matesha, passed one regulation. This Regulation has never been abolished, and that is that all official documents in the Republic of Croatia use kuna and everything else if foreign currency is spoken of as equivalent. And it stuck to it for years, but unfortunately it evaporated. But I repeat, if you read this argument a little bit better then you'll see that we're discussing it in one direction today, and the government is using an explanation to go in another. And the other thing that's very interesting, which is that in times of crisis like this, you sometimes resort to what's called. non-economic classical solutions. It's very interesting that no bank has ever thought to be the largest part of the annuity, and a very small part of the interest, because in such a way the basis for a possible new shock of increasing the Swiss franc would be reduced. Unfortunately, however, that did not happen. And no matter what the governor said in his statement, I still doubt that the banks were buying Swiss, and then on the basis of these bases, they were giving credit. And it's very interesting that one large part of the loan is given in a currency that practically has no tradition in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97226	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97227	You've given me a lot of these assignments to respond to this line of yours, but I'll try, won't I? In fact, I said myself that no one in the Republic, no one, but nobody does or gets paid, so pay in any currency other than the kuna. No one repays the loan if he has raised it in relation to any foreign exchange clause, so no one repays the loan in that currency but in kuna. ... the President of the Government at the time where the kuna is introduced as an exclusive means of payment and where it is used when talking about any of the official documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's completely forgotten, it's an ad act you'd say is, it's something archaic even you could say, retro. And God forbid any bank changes its relationship to the loan so that credit wars are paid off so that they get mixed up amounts of capital and interest. No, no, no, no, you'll pay off first, always, in every bank, interest, and only then the last wars before the end of the payment are the main wars. No one thinks of banks. And what's the bank's profit? Let's look at how much for these here let's go from 2000 or 2002 or 10 years, what is the profit of banks. So how much whining in 2014 was that the bank's profits were reduced by 10%. You can imagine! Not that it's reduced traffic or I don't know what it is, but it's bank profits. So they cried as if someone had died, it was God's keep. So there's space and there's room if there's a good will. There's room and room.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97228	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97229	Dear colleague Grubisic, you were wondering in your discussion what the bank is making? Because we often hear in these discussions how the bank has its own products. Well, one of the most significant and actually the biggest products is profit. The bank makes profits for itself, and it produces something much more tangible, galga or guillotine for customers. These are the two most significant products of banks. Banks also produced in 2008, I'm talking globally, I'm not just talking about Croatian banks, I'm talking about global crises. They caused and caused the world's crisis by insecureness, the greed of bank managers. And when it intervened in various economies, from America, Europe, the largest countries, that year, bank managers recorded the highest wages, or bonuses. It was even said that they were embarrassingly large bonuses because they buried and wrapped up in black all over the world. Banks make interest rates. However, we should also look back at this again, our guilt, or Parliament's guilt. First, the guilt of Parliament which allowed the foreign exchange clause and made it possible, strengthened the robbery and then those parliaments which, despite the proposals, refused even the debate on the foreign clause, let alone to abolish the foreign clause, and as Parliament, we always can. It's not going to be easy and it doesn't have to be done overnight, it has to be budgeted, and so long we won't solve anything until we cancel the foreign exchange clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97230	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97231	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, this morning I went as usual on foot from my apartment to the Croatian Parliament. And I'm passing through the victims' square where the seat of the RS Special Police Association is located. There's a board there that says soul disease, so there's a lot, and the diseases of the Croatian people's soul are also a product or a product of somewhat this banking industry. As I passed by this seat of the Scial Police of the Republic of Croatia, I then went to the square of Croatian Greats, where the CNB is, and I thought about today's material how connected these two things that I've been through are. And then I got to the Croatian Parliament. But speaking of the banking industry, it also produces bonuses of employees who work on exactly this sort of thing and people who are in debt slavery making bonuses, those who are on top, those by which the intervention police are coming to carry them out of the apartment precisely on the torture of Croatian citizens, Croatian peoples are making their bonuses. Is this a product of Croatian banking, be careful, banking? Well, it bothers me so much when I hear it's a banking industry that it's as terrible as you, as I see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97232	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97233	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned Raiffeisen's savings account, their illegal business on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the whole number of other speakers, and in fact the situation in which they got away with it without consequences. I ask a practical question, does anyone remember in the Republic of Croatia in these last 20 and a few years any situation, and there were a series of them, in which foreign companies that came from politically better positioned and powerful countries caught in Croatia with their fingers in honey, and that they had any coincidences. And an entirely clear key issue opens up the outcome of all the problems in this country, and that is how sovereign is this country at all? How sovereign is this country when it comes to the financial market, or the banking sector, how sovereign is energy, how sovereign is foreign policy, how sovereign is this country feeding? How many real elements of sovereignty do we have and how much character do we have in such a country as Parliament to deal with the failure of the institutions of the rule of law that should protect but, above all, prevent situations in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are going badly? We are now buying debris, instead of realizing in time that it is unacceptable for a sovereign state that has its own coin to allow the functioning of the credit market in the first place. We are now engaged in triage, and the prevention of lack of character in Croatian politics has not been done in the past 20 years. Answer my question only to a colleague do you think this is a country that is completely sovereign?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97234	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97235	Thank you very much. It is good that a new code of ethics has not yet entered, perhaps I would end up in prison if I answered this question you asked. But thank God I can still speak, so until the new code of ethics arrives, that's where Article 6 paragraph 3 is set out, but we'll talk about it later. But when we talk about sovereignty, look at our fellow energy partner, which is a strategic branch, the strategic goal of every country, the sovereign energy independent to be. We know to INA that both governments 25+1+Sanader-27 sold to MOL and lost and now we have problems that I was talking about this morning, I just said this morning, I lost my sovereignty in energy. Let's look at the telecommunications companies, so the information and what's flying over the satellite to say next, you wouldn't want to talk about it, and that's where we lost sovereignty. We don't have nearly any of our companies. Let's look at the banking that went into the foreign hands first, so let's ask ourselves, "Where is our sovereignty?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97236	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97237	Thank you very much. I am pleased that in your debate, too, you have referred to the issue of savings in Austria, and I think that through this debate on the Swiss franc, we have clearly and unequivocally warned about the problem that exists, but I even feel that there is some consensus in the Assembly that this should be reacted to. We've heard all the clubs, and I hope the SDP club that I've asked for will respond to find a way by tomorrow until the vote to commit and the Ministry of Justice will react because we're already talking about statehood, state decisions, accountability. I think this group falls under those terms. Because Austria was reacting to what we heard, we heard many new facts, Austria reacted, the Austrian State Attorney's Office reacted and they realized what was going on. Thousands of statements in the State's Attorney's Office, protests, have not forced Croatia to react yet. Many from their homes must leave their homes, and they had no intention of doing so. I'll tell you just some examples that I know of, for a 100 thousand-euro loan in those savings, one person pays less, another person pays almost twice as much in the same savings unit. Another example I gave the house and land to sign up for a mortgage, signed up for the entire ZK stake and all the inheritance I got from my parents, I can't even afford my property to get out of that loan by selling that property. It means there was abuse. And there are hundreds of such examples. And I think that until tomorrow's vote on this law should, in parallel with this, suggest a certain conclusion that would oblige the Ministry of Justice to also for a certain period of time until the Croatian institutions in particular DORH also protect these people and citizens and try to make a maximum effort for them to find a specific solution for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97238	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97239	Thank you very much. I am convinced that you are very often in the Parliament and here you are very often present that you have noticed that I have been before and I think you have talked about this, but also as one of our prime ministers said "dogs bark and caravans pass", an old Arab proverb that he loved to pronounce very much. So nothing happened. Looking at both commercial television and this public television called Croatian TV, there are shows of the type "What Insolences You", "Checked" and the like, where people just whom you and I are talking about, who were victims of the illegal, unauthorized and illegal work of the Raiffeisen cooperative. Is there anyone else I don't know but this was indeed an eclectic example of illegal work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where people were really left without property, real estate, completed etc. So Austria, which is an orderly state, recognized completely and very quickly what it was and brought sanctions for so-called. Raiffeisen, if she's a savings bank or a cooperative, I don't think it's a cooperative, I don't know exactly. From this place today I hope they hear us over 100 meters away from the other side and we send a message, if not, we will write a written inquiry to Mr. Justice Minister about the Raiffeisen Savings, or cooperatives or clients who remain in this position to say debt slavery and there are sanctions for this cooperative or savings company already in Austria, so why not in Croatia where they acted against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97240	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97241	My colleague, when you said that, I think you have rightly established it because unfortunately so is that regardless of all these consequences that happen to all these jobs happen in the Republic of Croatia. And in the Republic of Croatia, our laws that we have adapted, the truth, and then we have given up more, thus giving up that sovereignty that we do not now have those laws that would be effective to prevent all of this. But there are laws, there is a Law on the Croatian National Bank where it is independent, independent and when it is changed there is always that provision. He's working with the government, that's what needs to be used, that provision was worth a few years ago when these loans started in Swiss. And then I'll repeat how the Austrian National Bank reacted that it issued a pamphlet warning all the citizens who threatened the dangers of such a speculative product or a loan trap. Literally, it also in bold letters explains what the trick is on a few, on five cards. That didn't happen with us. Now some of you are rightly speaking, so whoever's there is the state, are state banks, and you're always saying banks behave like this. No, they behave in any way they can. Perhaps many of you here who criticise banks would have acted worse than they did in their position. They're telling the court that they're still holding back how much these loans could have been. They only behave as much as we do here, no one else but we allow it here. And stop talking about banks, let's start talking about us. This is a good measure, and I'm glad you support it. And what else should I do? Someone here is causing a lot of concern about what's going to happen in front of the courts. The courts already said in the first degree what they thought about it and all the honors. What's going to happen in some higher court and so, what's going to happen possibly in the Constitutional Court which now the Banks' Association is going to do, then they stick together. When one gets in trouble, they run away from one another. And now, it's a shame that they're hoarding the people against each other. The people of Croatia will be solid [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] They say how much the Croatian people will pay. [[Thank you very much.]] And allow just one more sentence. Which will be before the Constitutional Court, if someone with a loan nine years ago pays him off for nine years. in equivalent to the kunas had 500... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellow Time.]] 750 thousand and if the Constitutional Court is different than for the benefit of people to rule then indeed we all take our pictures off from ID cards and put on a donkey's picture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97242	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow 34 seconds. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97243	Thank you very much. Don't knock on your colleague Ingrid, she spoke very well, and I'm very glad she answered the line. And here I thank her very much. [[Intruder Zgrebec: It's all right but she has a debate and she'll say what's not in the replica in the debate.]] Here, I thank her from the bottom of my heart for this replica. And I don't know what to say, I don't know, first I'd hug her and kiss her. But here, thank you very much. Not because it's on the trail of my debate in full. And while it is already talking about independence, sovereignty and independence of the Croatian National Bank, I would only add and ask in its own style and from whom is it independent, independent and sovereign? Who is this bank independent of? From the Croatian people and the Croatian state, it seems to me, but some others do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97244	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97245	Your colleague Grubisic, in your discussion, claimed that the Swiss had been growing practically from hour to hour. So is that fact itself not, in its essence, the best argument just so that the law can be passed as soon as possible, so that we can vote it out tomorrow, that the sooner he starts to act, and that credit obligations don't grow anymore? As much as the speed of passing and adopting laws and acting on it is good for the banks themselves because this law predicts that the burden of increasing the course falls on them, therefore. That's why it's in their best interest for the law to come into effect as soon as possible. And you asked one question, you asked who it was that decided to increase the Swiss course and, of course, to result in this tragedy with the debtors. Well, he decided the capital of who else would. So the problem of credit in Swiss is nothing more than another consequence of the global financial crisis. In the event of a crisis, capital was fleeing where the safest vault in the world was Switzerland and Switzerland's banks. As a result, the Swiss economy was strengthened, and consequently the Swiss franc grew. By mid-January this year, the Swiss National Bank held the Swiss exchange rate growth under control and then decided to give in, removed the measure and the Swiss exploded. So in market economies, it always decides capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97246	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97247	Thank you very much. You said we should act quickly, so let's pass the law today if there's a majority, but there's no here, no conditions as they say. So it's not a problem that we're going to adopt, nobody said they wouldn't vote for this law, not one club, they all said we'd vote for, right? Therefore, the outcome of this debate is absolutely certain of the vote, so we will all raise our hand. But it's not the point, so parliamentarians aren't just some simple voting machine, we're trying to figure out and contribute to the debate as far away as possible because it's not a solution, it's finally not this law. It's just a fire strike, let's just tell people a little bit to ease the pain to say so and try to save them in the first wave. But what about their principal? I told you that the principal, here and Shuker knows, is now this man who has 500 thousand kuna credit is his principal from two days ago 590. What about that? That's what we're talking about. So we are not, no one is here but we are trying to make our contribution, each of us, to finally solve the issue of the foreign exchange clause in Croatia and that is why we are discussing, and that is why we are, I think the atmosphere is quite good and that every club contributes to its debate. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97248	And on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97249	Dear Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Our colleague Shuker, former finance minister, has warned us of something we may know, perhaps we don't know. We know that there's a currency clause, we know that when we raise loans to a car or to an apartment that we don't get them in a foreign currency that we're bound by a currency clause but in kunas. But he said one more thing, and that's whether the ones we're in debt with the currency clause with some currency really have that currency as a basis for a kuna loan or it's just a accounting base. Is this merely a nominal basis because in the financial capital market, i.e. someone estimated that it was good to go into the business with this degree of banking security and open that segment of the credit market when there is no serious supervision and when no one is seriously watching, if that is true. And it would be shocking if it were true, but it would not surprise me because of what my colleague Linic opened, with the effect of savings that actually act illegally in the area of the credit market of the Republic of Croatia, using the institutional channels of the Republic of Croatia including the National Bank. If that's the case, it's the alarm bell. Not the one in Sava because it's the bell of the ritual state where we should sacrifice. But when the sacrifice was to be offered and it made sense for people to sacrifice themselves for the state then was the time to do so, but today we all potentially became victims. At tens of thousands of people become victims, not by their own free will, not by their own responsibility, rather than by their own desire to have as many better living conditions as possible, and we have not as a state provided them with the assumption that they have security in achieving and their wishes and needs in the end line. We didn't. And here we come to the key issue touched by counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, the kind of state we actually have. More ritual than functional, more state to sacrifice than state to be in the function of organised society and the needs of citizens. Unfortunately. And for nothing we've been turning our political battles around the ritual state, it won't be in the citizens' interest. I especially want to point out to our colleagues who do not deny the right to protect that part of the political spectrum. On the contrary, someone must also guard that kind of feeling, but when it is exaggerated, it is exaggerated. Croatia is not a problem of Yugoslavism or non-Yugoslavism, but of what is happening to us, because it has dressed up as it says, today we competed with proverbs, emperors to Duvar, and will say Croat to Frank. Unfortunately. And that's good, at least to see where we are. And if we learn from this lesson and start editing the state, then this danger makes sense. What we feel today is a high degree of harmony in our attitudes is good, but if it only comes to what we discussed here today and on the proposal that the government is proposing, it won't achieve much, but it's heard very important and very interesting proposals. The proposal to convert credit into kuna is a good proposal despite some saying it's not good. We need to determine what course it is, but that's a good suggestion. It is our national currency. And it's not just for us to pay for the gemist with that currency. And it's not like it's just for us to buy a grizzly at the market or whatever it's called, a verdure somewhere in the market. I guess it also serves us to regulate the same capital market and protect our economy whatever it is, and a good part of that economy concerns exactly the financial market that we do not manage properly and which, as we know, has never been, and in rare times, there was a good relationship between the fiscal part of the policy in the country and the monetary part of the policy in the country. But I can talk more about it than I can talk about. But it wasn't. And for that reason, I think it's time that we get far more far-reaching conclusions from this debate than we can get from this proposal. This proposal is good and we will support it. Freezing the Frank at 6,39 will help a number of people, but it will not help anyone who needs help. And at the same time, if we decide to take a step further as we hear and that the prime minister announces that a step further should not only take place on housing loans. These are not the only contaminated loans in the country, and these are not the only loans that make citizens suffer, nor are they the only loans that can make the economy suffer. And for this reason, you should consider the proposal tabled by your colleague Lesar, which is a matter of currency clauses, especially because of what fellow Shuker was talking about. If nothing else, if we do not decide to abolish the currency clause because it is necessary to make an assessment on the basis of which such a decision could be made. But the business surveillance issue is based on the currency clause absolutely yes. And that you have a currency clause, that you have the conversion of that accounting foreign currency into Kunsk where the bank can make multiple profits, and people are completely unprotected. It's our responsibility. It's not the market. It's just a relationship of power and a relationship of power in which someone has power, and you don't have it. And the state serves here and should serve to compensate for that power that a citizen cannot have. What kind of capital is that going to be? Whether it's private or social or national is less important. The state here needs to be a regulator, and unfortunately it has not taken over that role of regulators, it has not fought for it as other countries do. And in that sense, it seems to me that this is a crucial moment to start thinking about the state in a different way than we've ever done before. We have done everything to bring the country into the European Union. We did. We brought her in. But what will it be in the European Union? How will it go in the European Union? How will it work in the European Union? No, we don't have real and serious discussions about that. We feel like we're done with this and it's like it's over with our history and our statehood. And then we get what we get. As long as we have it as a small country, we have no other instruments, we cannot project our policy in international security. We cannot project our policy in major economic projects, but we can project our policy in that we have a country that will be a valid regulator and what I would say to my colleague Gjurkovic there will be no renewal of our economy unless there is no renewal of our regulatory mechanisms and the power of our country. He won't! And for this reason, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party will support this proposal, but we expect the government to be unable to stop this. We expect to either move towards the conversion of loans into kunas or to look at the possible consequences if we go to the complete removal of the currency clause. And that's what seems to me to be the necessary and necessary measure. The HDZ colleagues suggest that this applies to both the euro and all others. It's not a dispute, but it's not enough. It's not enough, because it's not just housing loans that are critical. There are others. They don't all have three cars. People buy emergency cars and often buy them in Swiss. And of course there are other forms of borrowing that are not just a form of consumption. For this reason, it seems to me that we need to think carefully and agree on proposals and refer them to the government. At the end of the day, my colleague Lesar made a good proposal. I think someone reiterated it whether or not counterpart Boris from the HDZ Club of Representatives, which is a matter of purpose. The government and we here need to agree to propose a conclusion on the implementation of contaminated loans, and especially the illegal loans spoken by counterpart Linic, should be stopped by the Government and a safeguard measure should be put forward for the exercise of citizens' rights. That's what we're gonna be all about as a club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97250	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97251	Dear fellow Pupovac, the ban on enforcement is several MPs, and I was among them asked for a ban to allow these people to retain their property and the Croatian state to react, to react primarily to the Ministry of Justice. You said there was a need to assess what a complete abolition of the currency clause would bring, which would have caused it. The question of what consequences? First of all, Croatian citizens would be brought out of debt slavery. First of all, the state isn't just an imaginary notion, it's not a name, flag, anthem and coat of arms, the state is human, the state exists because of the people, because of the people, the citizens. No matter what we live in the country or in the city. Would it have been possible for a Croatian savings bank to pick up Austrian citizens of the Austrian institution sitting with their hands crossed? I'm sure he wouldn't. Our institutions are calmly watching the citizens fail. You were talking about the victims, the citizens who took the loans are victims of bank acts and the victims of the state's indemnity. And the state is us, here in the Parliament. We make laws. As I said before, we've allowed a foreign exchange clause. With what motives? And later we allowed in the Croatian Parliament and the previous government and this current government not to discuss the foreign exchange clause at all. The mockery caused the proposal, I remember well, when we suggested that the exchange clause be abolished. Today we're all talking about it. We were four years ahead of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97252	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97253	I haven't heard all the debates, so I apologize to those I couldn't list as the proposings of this proposal on the protection of citizens from the executive proposals coming from individual savings or individual banks. So I'm glad that there are more clubs that support it, which means that there are assumptions that this is going to be adopted by a larger team. And as for the questions of others you have raised, I agree with you, as I agree with the good part of your debate and your replicas, and I have nothing to add except to say one thing. When I said I made the Emperor to the duvair – the duvar is a wall in Turkish, and we do have a wall. But easy for that wall, what is much more important for us is a wall through which our citizens cannot and through which they cannot. And it's our job to handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97254	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97255	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, so I'm going to repeat something I've already said several times today, and reading CNB's statements, listening to banks, listening to the Frank Association, so what can theoretically happen at the end of the year? Someone who had the capital 500 thousand kuna a week ago, it's now 600 thousand kuna. At the end of the year, when you pay off your annuity by such a obsessing that I say the principal course will be 590,000 kuna. So you've paid 10 thousand kuna, but your commitment has grown 90,000 kuna. It's a fact and it's true. And that's why our conclusion goes in that direction to force all the participants to do something within 90 days, so if it's not done within 90 days, we're going with the Constitutional Law to finally step on someone's tail. But like this, this is a political document. I can list you a bunch of things, in this history of the Croatian state of 25 years, which unfortunately came into something else. The second thing, the currency clause she has clears her definition. And those who don't have currency clauses, I'll talk about it in a debate on behalf of the club, have other instruments. But if there's no such thing, then the price of capital is much higher. Don't think that I stand for the currency clause, I will suggest something else that should be done in the future in Croatia. But let's just not close our eyes, we're gonna do something with fixing the course. Unfortunately, we won't. Or, say, these 20 billion loans will just grow to 24 billion at the end of the year, if nothing happens. The other thing is, we can't ignore the charges. We've had no one to sue in our past, so we've paid billions of dollars for those lawsuits. And I think now there's a situation, that it's mature to say so, if everyone puts down their horns a little bit to find a lasting solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97256	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97257	I didn't understand your proposal significantly differently, but it seems to me that we should strengthen our power, and that means strengthening the position of citizens who take credits and positions of companies that take credit. And that's why I'm saying that just as the Government's proposal to go to the cold rate of francs isn't enough, your proposal for a conclusion that we're going to encourage to come to an agreement is not enough because it should be extended to other forms of credit. You should see which one. And what's very important is that we realize that it's probably not an accident that the Supreme Court hasn't decided so far. As it is not an accident that the Constitutional Court has not decided so far. And for that reason, we don't have to put all the responsibility on the banks. The banks are doing their job and they want to make money. We need to ask the question of what we do and what our state institutions do, what does the Supreme Court do if it's not the most pressing thing for him? If there's one item that could be held on Saturdays, then why can't it sit around this thing and Sundays? Why can't he sit in this thing? Of course because it's a matter of ritual state and intrastate purchases. And here around this thing, you can't because it concerns those thousands and tens of thousands of poor people who don't have powers anyway and don't have their own spokeswoman, and in the end they don't have their own Parliament to date until it's seen that this House still wants to wake up, and it's being encouraged by the government by its proposal, and that's what we need to say. It is our fellow Shuker that we need to expand, we need to support them, and we need to force them to negotiate, and that power needs to be balanced because it is not balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97258	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97259	You say a colleague with whom I absolutely agree that the state needs to strengthen its regulatory function. However, I will point out that in addition to this law that we are now discussing the Consumer Credit Act which is a lex specialis we have the General Law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, which therefore speaks of the rate of contractual interest, which speaks of interest rates on interest, interest on monetary obligations where such behaviours are explicitly prohibited. Therefore, Article 26(1) states that the rate of contractual interest between the persons of which at least one trader is the case here will be the rate of legal even tight interest applicable on the date of conclusion of the contract or on the day of the change in the contractual interest rate. And the article... item 3 shows if interest is different contracts such contract is worthless, does not produce any effects. Article 27, which speaks of interest rates on interest, given that people in late payments were not able to pay, and then interest on interest is provided here, the provision of a contract which is supposed to be on interest when they arrive for payment, and no interest on interest has been paid. So the thing is, not only do I support all of this that you've said especially about the execution of people who are not guilty of their own guilt, so they didn't buy apartments of 500, 600 square meters and they knew they had a salary or they'd get a temporary job somewhere, but people who weren't by their own fault that would be... any case that the court would decide as well as non-payment of wages, that they couldn't or should not be left without home. We in our legal history had and we had a ban on foreign exchange clauses, we can say that because of a different system was normal, but we see how far this has led us. Similarly, a small amount does not leave a man without his only home, and that is what we can do in the Law of Business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97260	Thank you. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97261	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Not only the Law on the performance of colleagues Antičević-Marinović but you will also agree to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Under the Mandatory Relations Act, it can't be that only one party bears all the risks and all the costs, it can't be. But the question is, of course, it's a matter of power. Today the laws apply but according to how much money you have. If you have a lot of it then you're worth a little, if you have a little bit then it's worth a lot to you. So it's not worth the bank, but it's worth the bank's client, and that's it. That's why it's no wonder the Supreme Court isn't answering, so it's no wonder the Constitutional Court isn't answering. I repeat it once again is a matter of power relations, and that power can only be established by the state if it does not want to be established by the street. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97262	On behalf of the proposer Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's what I really meant very briefly when all the clubs are done and then come forward, but here's the need for just one, two dilemmas to solve now. We've got three or four more clubs, so let's see where we're going and how we're going. I think this debate has shown that we are on the right track and now that we've calmed down the situation means this motion for a decision to be made tomorrow is clear to everyone that it will be taken from this support of clubs that have said it so far, and I thank them for that, so we have an electrified debate. Okay, you'll say this Parliament is famous for having an electrified discussion, but there we really found, as a speaker, but we did find a lot of culprits like I said depending on the angle and watching the observer no one is innocent, because we were all somehow aware that it wasn't about the happiest product, and that someone criticized that credit is called product. But let's play it right now. Is that the government is it the CNB are the courts, is it the DORH, are it the foreign governments now that we're headed for these Raiffeisen Foundations, etc., etc. But we've achieved I mean a good path and a good basis for discussing as much relevant data as possible. We're discussing a final... data proposal that came out of the CNB. We have a background that shows exactly how many credits it is, what their dispersion is, what it's always been we have attitudes, we have and express attitudes where and how the CNB has and sees 5 solutions. And what we need to see from me is whether we're going this way now, and I think the debates were in the right direction, whether to get deep into those loans. So we have aggregated credit information, everyone who came but every bank has a different position and probably within those loans and that social structure we don't see below. And it would be good if I were to say even similar actions like a new beginning to see and really see that structure not because, I'm not looking for a final solution or I'm going to impose it on all of you, I think we can come to it together, but as usual, we need to have a basis for good decisions in life, and that basis I think we can still get further, and that banks can look for them themselves. They'll look for her and because we've transferred this temporary cost to them, it means the opposite of what Mr. Shucker is saying,... That's the $60,000 debt now for that proxy loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was 500, so it's 600. No, it was 600 last Thursday and it's going to be 500 now. Yes, yes, yes, for 6,39, his credit is 500 and that difference from 500 to 600 will go to the bank's burden. And it's also an interest for the banks to get to this solution as soon as possible and solve it in 2, 3 months. And we don't run away, though, I think I've said, eight times here on behalf of the promoter, not a year is the deadline just to relax the atmosphere so it won't be under pressure. No, we want a solution in a month, two, and we're going to do everything we can to make that solution come into a month, two, three, but based on sound foundations, based on sound information, and I'm saying as much social conversation and consensus as possible. If everyone sees that solution justly, we'll see, some expense will exist. I think that two dilemmas have been crystallized in this regard whether to go linearly towards all credit users and say here the Swiss are maimed compared to others, we stick to only Swiss and find a solution for that and on the other hand whether to look at all the users,... So either go into these social criteria and relations to see who's the first realtor, who's not the first realtor, who's not a speculator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About that, I say I appreciate your every opinion, it would be good to hear it. I think we should be there, too. I personally think we should be socially sensitive, but I say the final court can't bring it either until I see the final data. And if we're talking about the conversion of whether or not it's just Swiss, if I just think that it's only Swiss, at least I'm reading it from what the clubs have said so far because this would be too much of a bite. And then if it's only Swiss and if it's a conversion of whether it goes into kuna or euro, is it possible to do it only in kunas so that two currencies remain to say domestic, standard kuna and that which is the euro with which we are in the economic space at the end of the line but which is the base, so all the profession will tell you, the base is in savings, the gross savings, the vast majority of the savings is in euro. And... Every bank... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why you don't need to be governor of the National Bank that you need to practically have your product in the active and passive, o, it's already past time, and in the activity and passive therefore balanced between that currency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97264	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm surprised by what you said. It is here in Article 1(2) that it says of annuity or meals in regular repayment. So your top 500 has grown to 600,000. Let's assume that the annuity that contains the principal in the year is 10 grand, in this new increase is going to be 12 grand. With this decision, we're just saying that this year he's not going to pay 12 but 10 and 2000 is going to the bank's burden but the principal remains 590,000 kuna. It's the right math, and that's what you wrote here. So you're only talking about an annuity in 2015. If it's a 20-year loan it's about 480 monthly meals so it's somewhere means 1000 kuna let's take it to be a meal for the principal times 12 it's 12 thousand, plus 20% how much you went up it means to you 14400. Therefore, the client will not pay 14400 but will pay 12, but his principal at the end of the year will shrink by this amount of, say, 10 thousand 600 minus 10 thousand is 590,000. Which will be after the end of this law we don't know. So I made a theoretical assumption what if the parties fail to agree. And it's the only correct math. And what you're saying isn't true, you're only talking about one year's annuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97266	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97267	Yes, Mr. Schucker, we're a little closer than we were before from this last sentence of yours, so that you'd be right if this course were to remain the same, present or if the war was increased, it would be even bigger, so if nothing had happened in all the markets and if the clients hadn't agreed. ... And we, but all the time, so that's exactly what we're saying, we're looking for this solution, we're looking for, we want, we want to expand to agree. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we're looking for that solution no later than a year just to get away from the pressure, but we want the solution in 2, 3, 4 months. We don't want... We don't want to give solutions unless we know what's behind it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As long as it takes this temporary stand by moratorium I don't know what I've already called it all people paying off anunities in a way as if the loan is now 500 and he's really 600 if we're talking about this proxy. He was on Wednesday last 500, the Swiss People's Bank said we don't bind the euro anymore, that predicted man he became 600, he was 600 and today it's 600 and 600 by tomorrow until you actually pass this bill and unless he... Annuity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then he becomes, then he practically becomes, and the annuity in that share of the principal is practically turning away in a way that he's like that because it's the ratio of interest and this to the percentage amount. Of course I say your theory would drink water when a) would not agree, and also from your discussion and discussion of your club and your conclusion in the end line you also want to support that things are agreed even in three months and b) when nothing would happen in inter-curricular relations over the next year and we all must have concluded today that we cannot. It could be six and 11 in a year, and we don't know that, and that's why we need this law, we need a deal, and we need it, here's another allow for your personal judgment, we need to get out of that bad product through... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97268	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97269	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Consumer Credit Act, which the Government has sent to an emergency procedure with full right of course. There are not many laws that are passed in this way, that is, in this form and with this purpose, with a reason like this. These are rare historical situations that need to be intervened practically immediately and in which there is clearly a high level of consent not only of executive but also of legislative authority. In this regard, we also read the indications of all clubs so far that they are ready to support the Government of Croatia's proposal to adopt a palatable measure that will allow practical acquisition of conditions and create time to define a sustainable and sustainable solution. As far as the liberals are concerned, we are rightly frowning and raising our eyebrows whenever it comes to state interventionism and whenever there is something that is in principle not respecting the principle of a free market economy, but we are giving ourselves the right in this case to say that this is not about it. Yes, it is interventionism, but it is an extraordinary situation which is not created by the free operation of the market but by a whole series of other factors that every country, the rule of law and the international system must control in terms of protecting citizens' rights as consumers and protecting their rights and freedoms above all that they have as consumers and then as customers of banks. Here is a situation where none of us can be blind or deaf, regardless of what political principles we call upon, because it is a situation that basically leaves 200 or more thousands of people overnight in an extraordinary situation that puts a great question over their own existence. It is, therefore, about 54000 loans or what the CNB would say about 4% of Croatian families that are in charge in the Swiss francs when it comes to the loans they have raised to acquire living space. The right to the roof above the head is one of the rights that cannot be refuted and no space in which such a thing would be denied. Croatia and, of course, Croatian citizens are specific in this regard because the right to a roof over their head is understood as a property right, so many of them want to acquire property in their possession. But this case has shown or opened one of Pandora's boxes of evidence of a whole series of extremely negative processes that always occur at the expense of the consumer, always at the expense of the client. The first of course is the bank's behaviour as a business entity, as a business partner, of the one who offers capital on the market. And there is a whole series of information that says that it can be rightly doubted whether they did it in a legal way, that is, whether when they offered this banking product they really pointed to all the advantages and potential shortcomings, i.e. the risks of such a task. We know for sure that several years since 2006 whoever wanted to buy a car on loan could not have obtained a loan in another currency at all, but was calculated in Swiss francs by some banks. So he couldn't choose. This is certainly not respecting the principle of market freedom. And on the other hand, if information is added to that which says that banks are not in all cases their clients, and this is confirmed by decisions that are not yet powerful, the commercial court, so that not every single one of their clients is in the right, adequate, fair way to warn all the repercussions of the agreed terms, then the question is really raised that this form of state interventionism is actually justified, so moreover, that it is not a lasting character. He is therefore a temporary palitative measure, and we must be aware of that and that is what the Proposer says. It is therefore this time to allow those who are key partners in a possible solution to indeed agree. First of all, commercial banks, CNBs, associations representing and representing part of damaged clients, i.e. part of savings. Of course, we don't think the government should sit side by side. It must play an active role as much as it must insist on achieving a deadline in a specific, default, fair, concrete deadline, and here it is said to be a maximum of one year, so that a sustainable and long-term agreement is reached. So it's about 54,000 housing loans in Swiss francs worth about 20.7 billion kuna. This proposal therefore provides for a solution to establish, for loans contracts in francs and kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs for anuities, i.e. meals in regular payment of the Swiss franc rate according to kuna, at a level of 6 kuna and 39 lip for one Swiss franc, and in that way, to prevent potential major social breakdowns in society. Because out of 54 000 credits, no matter what the data says, those in charge of francs in principle are better paying powers. So we assume when it comes to buying real estate it's mostly about younger families, families where two people work. So these are the ones we can conditionally call middle-class carriers. Any gambling with their fate actually means destroying a very creative part of our status, and that's not to play with. No matter what, because it is in principle about those who have better paying power to leave fate means actually bringing them into an impossible situation because there is no, so for most of those who are in charge of such financial conditions that credit conditions are not important to them, so they can pay them if they are both francs 4 and a half, but if they are 9. It's not like that. And we must not lead to those who, therefore, are the most potent, creative in this society coming to the limit of existence. Or that even worse than that, they get into the plight of the activation of mortgages, the execution, the absence of a roof over the head and a whole series of other problems that can result. There's our responsibility. In that sense, whatever any of us are saying today has not shown that he is blind or deaf to these problems and that is good. Because this is one of the laws, even though every law applies to human destiny. But this one is one of the ones where you see it most and very, very clearly, plastically with concrete data not only statistically, but also these socially stratified elements that are very important to us. In this respect, the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal and encourage the proposing to insist that an agreement be reached within a reasonable period of time. We heard here today, not only from the proposings, not only yesterday from the Croatian National Bank but also from the representatives of clubs, from the representatives of a whole series of possible solutions and open issues from the currency clause institutes, conversions, possible in kunas, possible in the euro. For all these suggestions, for all possible solutions and therefore it's good that we get practically this proposal out. It is necessary to create simulations and not over the knee, so that something that is at first sight or first impression is actually re-embarked on the back of the one who didn't deserve it as well as with the very conclusion of a loan in the conditions of an unstable course, i.e. the course that later changed. So, mathematical analyses, simulations and, of course, the solution that carries the cost of the new solution is something that needs to be done in these months that are coming and we hope that, when we speak today in January by summer, this issue will be solved in a more sustainable and sustainable way. In this regard, we welcome the proposal from the promoters, we join all other clubs that have declared that they will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97270	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97271	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I would start this debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club with two questions. Do we all really think together that this problem that requires great financial resources can be solved without costing anyone anything? I say he can't. And the second question is, let's remember 15 days ago, 20 days ago, a month ago, the Vice-President of the Government famously said that Europe has a billion euros for various projects and programmes, and that it really is thought that the placement of those billions of euros will not be paid. Did you think that both the dollar and the euro would look blindly at what was happening to the euro and no one would react. Well, we've been taught about courses and dollars and yen in the past decade. Therefore, nothing is happening that simply some things should not have been expected. No one could have predicted that the Swiss boom would be the way it is. But just some things had to happen. And what, why we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club have proposed a certain conclusion is exactly the problem that arises in parallel with the proposal of this law. So we're simply not apostrophe of the parallel currency, and that's the euro. The euro which you look at in Croatia is more Euroised than Kunski adapted, because Kunski is practically in daily payment. However, everything that happens is practically euro-related. The other thing is, with this law, we're introducing how to say some multiple courses. One course by which the anuity will be calculated is the second course by which the same credit will be conducted by the business bank in its business books, then in some way describing or how it will already work. And a course based on the one set by the Croatian National Bank to trade with Swiss francs in Croatia and at the end of the course towards which Croatian businessmen will have an economic exchange with Switzerland. It's a fact and that's what hides one great danger. We automatically violate the Foreign Exchange Act and violate the Law on the Croatian National Bank and it automatically opens up a space for lawsuits. And if there is one very high among us here today, I can say a very high degree of consent from having to solve it, only that we differ in the ways that we should solve it. And what's most important is if you listen to the CNB, regardless of what they're still communicating with the statements and not with any concrete meetings, if you listen to the representatives of the banks and if you listen to the ones that really concern them the most, and these are Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen who have loans with, I'll say no in Swiss, with the base, the foreign exchange base of Swiss, because it's the only correct solution and the correct expression because this is all in Swiss for me, but I wouldn't want to offend anyone on will play. So if you listen to them all then you will see that there is one very high degree of desire to agree. Why? Well, because nobody just knows what's going to happen in the next two, three months. No one knows. And everyone wants to solve this problem for the simple reason that we don't get a new boom. It can be Swiss and it can fall, and it can grow. However, if what makes it more difficult for everyone to convert whether those who have loans with the Swiss currency base want to do so in the euro or in kuna we would generally get clients who, with 1 or 2 ways, have... their credit relations with business banks and any shock in the future would be far easier to solve. But no, we're going to do something that's purely political. When I was talking about these 600 and 500 thousand, it was one theoretical assumption that nothing happened and that you saw in principle whose juice you came in or how you hit your head against the wall, and you can't go through the door like our prime minister says. Also, when I talk about the currency clause and much more advanced, stronger countries than us, countries that have a long tradition and not one, but not one, but the strongest practically world economy and currency which is the basis for all other currencies since the 1970s when that no longer gold has been defined in principle, do not have a currency clause but you must in a certain way protect and whoever gives credit and you must protect whoever receives the credit. That's what it's called. The ceiling and the floor. So you define the law to which percentage levels can most increase the vulnerability of those who pay it, and also to which the highest level can fall annuity. So protect both the believer and the debtor, one fair game. It's a model that Americans have, for example. And then there's no more talking about the currency clause. But just to talk about abolishing the currency clause, are you aware of what this leads to? This leads to an increase in risk and you get a rise in the price of capital. It's the same story, I've been listening to the story here, and while I was the minister about how I should devalue the kuna. If the kuna had devalued, look what would have happened. All those who had loans and all had foreign exchange loans would find themselves in the situation that today those who had credits with the basis of the Swiss franc. And not to say what would happen to the state. The state, when in debt in dollars, most of these debts were converted into the euro for the simple reason that most of the debt of the country was in euro or the debt was on the domestic market but related to the euro. So if we thought about it that way and thought about it then we'd probably look at this law differently. This law definitely offers one big skeleton in the closet. Because if it stays on this, so the government determines something that has no right to determine, look at the Finance Committee yesterday, the bank representative said they agreed on the first text of this Consumer Credit Act when the interest rate was fixed and it was counter-constitutional but from the agreement of the banks and the Ministry of Finance and the Government they agreed to do so and gave up the lawsuit. So now, yesterday, he opened the question if the government continues to insist on this, then the question of fixed interest will be raised. So why force something if those who are the most interested and these are the recipients of the credit and those who give credit and the CNB want to sit at the table and agree. And that's why the proposal for a HDZ conclusion is going in that direction to make that happen within 90 days, we say that in the same way we should treat the loans that have a basis in the euro as well as these. We mentioned, we pointed out particularly housing loans. Why? Well, because most people, unfortunately, who took up housing loans, went for Swiss for a reason to come and solve their life issue in a cheaper way at that point. And the logical thing is that if that state needs to react through its social programme. But also, there were some colleagues here who said we shouldn't ignore even the businessmen. And they also started certain businesses with cheaper capital at that point than was the one that was tied to the euro. Are we going to put them in a position where we can get a few thousand more people on the Stock Exchange? So you just have to think about everything because this isn't a single problem, this is a very, very complex problem. If he wasn't like that, they'd probably have solved him in the last few years. So, what I said and now I'm gonna go back to that. HNB's statement, I don't think it's just time to make a statement. It's time to talk at the table. Because you write something on paper and there's one word or one sentence left unclear, the other who participates in the whole process doesn't know what you meant by it and the story is running out. So, it's time for the talks, it's time for a far more active role both of the governors and of the CNB for the simple reason that they're farthest and most revered at the moment to give a concrete and quality solution to this problem. It's time for the CNB not to be a holy cow but to be who it is. Because if we have given her great independence that we cannot interfere in their affairs, then as parliamentary representatives, we should now ask them to show themselves very responsible to the Croatian state and Croatian citizens on behalf of that independence. And that's the point of the whole story. And let's not get carried away here, we're talking here like Croatia's an unsettled state. So when the government is in charge outside and when you have a billion, here's how they will now be in charge of a billion euros, those billions of euros when they come to Croatia know exactly what the procedure is and how they come to the payment system of the Republic of Croatia if they are to be paid in Croatia to convert into kunas as they are paid, the same story with business banks. There's nothing you can do about the conversion of making it past the CNB. So let’s not make a big deal about something that is reality and fact. As you get paid by this conversion simple work for those who deal with the job, there's no difference. Because if someone did go past the rules, then they're breaking the law. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, I repeat, the government has gone into a political move that, without any agreement, these three subjects mean nothing. It may last a year, but I think at this point the government should be a moderator between these three sides and that a settlement should be made and I think a solution can be found. You can find a solution with some middle rate, you can find a solution to the conversion, and I think that's the only solution. And today we have listened to praises about Austria, the Austrian National Bank, etc. I say I said it in one replica, I think colleague Martincevic, yesterday the Austrian governor said that of the total credit in Austria 20% of the credit is in Swiss. And to be clear, these Swiss didn't air down in Croatia, didn't bring them storks or swallows, you... came to Croatia through one bank from that country, and then the other banks went with Swiss for a simple reason to be competitive on the market. The other thing, there's been a lot of criticism here today, let's look at the times that's been happening. By 2004, it was almost impossible for Croatia to obtain credit for neither entrepreneurs nor citizens nor anyone, it was even difficult to get a credit card. The time has come for historically low interest rates and credit debt expansions, when people are based on it and this is the so-called Grubisic fellow. The banking industry and the banking product were offered products that people had lured themselves into because they were not alerted enough and therefore the responsibility of business banks and therefore they had to participate in this story, just as the CNB's responsibility if it felt that something was happening with these loans had to prohibit these loans and therefore they have a responsibility and which is why they can financially participate in the recovery of this. If you look at the CNB, remember the report, so they have a yearly profit of 400 and another 500 million, so for those 11 billion or how many billion euros we have foreign reserves, and they're deposited somewhere, and they get interest for it. So why don't we take part in the recovery of this together. And in the end, some citizens went to solve their problem because they couldn't solve it differently, they saw... some went for speculative reasons, but they had already submitted their share of the burden and they were practically at this point the basis for the calculation of the principal increased by 50 or 60% compared to what was at the moment they were raising the credit. So nobody can get away from this, and I'm saying if someone thinks they're gonna get out of this problem so they don't pay for anything that's wrong, and the state has to be prepared for those social cases that don't get their own fault on the market or get sick or otherwise, and in that way, the existence of them and their families is threatened to help them, and also to the entrepreneurs. We give through various ministries incentive funds, why not the entrepreneurs we see that this loan has brought them to work, to produce, to have a perspective so why not help them stay alive too. And that is why the HDZ's conclusion is going in this direction because we have written here a great increase in the course is jeopardising existence and that is the constitutional equality of all citizens and financial interests of the Republic of Croatia, with this covered practically all of them. And I would be happy to accept this conclusion, and then I think that we would practically reach a consensus in this House of Commons, and it is time to really show real concern for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. And colleagues and colleagues, all these measures taken without economic recovery will unfortunately have no major effect. If the banks do not have a higher ranking in the future, the greater the profits will be more difficult to bear this loss. Likewise, if the number of employees is not increased and wages are raised, it will be very difficult for citizens to repay their loans. So what I said yesterday on the board and today several debates by the HDZ club are ready to support this proposal but with the conclusion that we have proposed another conclusion that Boris will have already spoken about it several times, which is to get rid of these cooperatives that shared people's loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97272	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a replica of the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97273	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll quote my colleague Shuker one of your sentences, you said literally, "No one knows what's going to happen in the next two to three months," referring to the course of the Swiss franc. But I'm thinking something else, so the elements that citizens of these 55, 60 grand, and the other ones that you were talking about, are craftsmen and others who are also in charge of Swiss francs, including farmers, OPG, etc. that there are elements of injustice. Since I am very curious and this kind of thing a bit bizarre and painting, the other day in Slavonski Brod, I was on the taras as they say in Slavonia, in letters from a meter, I saw a graphite on which it says, "When injustice becomes a law of resistance becomes a duty." So now let us all think together, which means resistance, and that's what a fellow Pupovac used to say at the end of his exposure. And another graphite passing through the market in Slavonski Brod writes like this, "Croatia today! An honest Croat died, the autopsy will determine what he lived on." Yes, yes. And the floor, in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament for this session under the regular number 71, and I tried to change that number at the Bureau's session, was now 61st, and it was now 71st: "The proposed conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the purpose of the legal halting of the performance, pedidab and the occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own and in which they live. It is proposed by the HDSSB Representatives' Club.". We put it in 71st place and you see now during this debate is very current and this topic is precisely related to those Raiffeisen associates etc.. Unfortunately, this is the position of the Croatian Parliament and all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97274	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97275	Yes, my colleague Grubisic, I said that no one knows exactly what will happen because if you look at the news on the portals this afternoon then you will see that the dollar has grown, that the dollar has grown. And the logical thing is, let's talk openly now, if you know that someone is going to place a billion euros and that they want to propose that other currency, so the logical thing is that you're going to raise your currency to get as much euros for it as possible. And then tomorrow you're trading another way with that euro. So that's why, and when we talk about this problem, then Croatia has to be kind of unified. You need to tie yourself to something we're trying to get in. Because we're trying to get into the euro area, whether it's going to be three, four, five years from now, it's up to us how we're going to run economic and fiscal policy, but the logical thing to focus on one thing. Because look, we forgot here, look at your colleagues and colleagues you have citizens of the Republic of Croatia who took a loan with the basis of the euro when the euro was 7.20 today is the euro almost 7.70 and something else, so it's gone about about 9 or 10%. Well, you can't say that someone, that on a million kunas, 9 or 10% is a negligible amount. And at the same time, we boast that we've given someone support or encouragement with 50 thousand kunas and say that they're going to make some progress. Therefore, things need to be reduced somehow to a common denominator and try to solve this problem. And I think it's high time that we in Croatia want to solve the most pressing problems of life. We unfortunately do rational things irrationally. And this bill is, let's let go of politics now, let me out of HDZ, see what economic and legal and other experts think about it, unfortunately one irrational law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97276	Dear fellow MP Milorad Pupovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97277	Thank you, Mr. President. In your argument, you referred to the Foreign Exchange Act and you said that the Government's proposal is such that it can be, that it is contrary to certain provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act and that banks can be called upon. And what can the citizens call on who took loans from the bank? First, they can appeal to the Consumer Credit Act on Article 3 and the banks have not met the conditions laid down by that law because if they had, they would have warned them and the contract would contain what should stand and not stand and did not warn them but lured them. Second, what we must take into account is the Law on Mandatory Relations of Article 29(4). The parties are obliged to comply with contractual obligations but the moment the contractual obligations begin to be regulated or fulfilled at the expense of one party then that contract is no longer valid. Then you either need to break it up or someone needs to intervene third. And it's the state now, and it's happening right now. Maybe not in the best way but in an intervening way and for the whole, a solution needs to be found. So I agree with you when you say the banks won't lose much because they're making a lot of money and they're really making a lot of money in the last few years, we could all see that. I also agree with you that citizens should learn responsibilities because they have been irresponsiblely often to their future obligations and to their needs, it is all true. But we used to warm up that mood very often. In the end, I'll go back to what I said, the thing is that we here secure, to secure a balance of power based on which to negotiate, because without it, we won't be able to reach an agreement in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97278	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97279	Comrade Pupovac, when I was talking, you skipped that key line, given that there's a high desire for a deal. That's why I said, and that's why we're asking for a 3-month moratorium to give them a chance to agree and then if we don't have other instruments for which all the clubs in this House are going to be, we protect our citizens and our economy. So that's something that's not controversial. But to pursue now something that was past the agreements that were common, which could produce lawsuits is something that was problematic and that's what I was talking about. Therefore, it is not disputed when you mentioned the Consumer Credit Act, so when I explained why banks should participate in the resolution of part of the costs, then I made it clear that they did not inform the recipient enough. So I told you exactly about all three subjects why they should be involved in this whole process. But I'm just repeating that we don't get sued for tomorrow, which will pay the same citizens again tomorrow because they pay taxes in the state budget. It's a key problem. And so I appeal again if there is and at least, according to my information, there is a desire to make a deal, let's give them 90 days, please sit down and arrange. There's a desire to achieve a moratorium on the course for those three months that he'll be whether 6,39 or even smaller, so let's give them a chance to do it. If they don't, but let's go solve the problem of the euro, then there are instruments that we can act on. After all, because we can always pass the law. ... Change the foreign exchange law to make this all legitimate for me to understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I repeat this is a time when, obviously, both political factors and institutional factors and citizens have the will to find a solution. And it would be a shame not to use that positive energy, which unfortunately in Croatia today has very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97280	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the Honorable Representative Franjo Lucic and Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Schuker, your debate, no matter what we come from the same party, we liked it very much, and that's why there is a basis because you were a longtime minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about this decision so the government has made to try to solve the crisis and courses and the Swiss franc already present for many years, then I'm certainly very concerned and I don't really see a real solution. Certainly HDZ wants to solve this problem today or tomorrow when it gets an opportunity, but as an interpreter we have also witnessed in this pre-election campaign for the president when some people have been saying that they simply want who not to live in the rule of law to replace all possible governors of these and those who, at the same time, do not call and not know that we live in the rule of law. So today's government, which I also believe has brought its proposal to a rapid pace, as if it did not live in the rule of law, not agreeing with either the National Bank or the users, is also passing a bill that will certainly not benefit those most in need. Of course, we all need to find a solution to how and how to help people, but once again I want to point out that the only problem is not those people who have raised and raised loans in Swiss. It's probably also potential for those who will be in the euro tomorrow, not to mention the loans that have been made by our farmers, the farmers, and especially by people who are engaged in agriculture, who can't repay their obligations today either. We simply need a thorough debate, including all those who can help, and not just this simple, populist before the elections bring some proposal that will not benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97282	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97283	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucic, that's exactly why our conclusion is going that way. We want a complete solution to the problem and I want no matter how critical the CNB is, but at this point it's simply time to take advantage of its intellectual potential to come to a solution. I cannot accept a statement signed by the governor of the CNB. He signed it, however, does not address any imaginary people, he addresses both peasants and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have raised loans for their housing needs and entrepreneurs and all those who have found themselves in certain problems. But so you don't argue in the same way tomorrow about euro loans, then we're looking for a complete solution. And I don't see the reason why the problem is in these 90 days if those 90 days mean fixing courses if everyone agrees. After all, the representatives of the banks said so, and possibly the CNB, as well as the citizens who have loans agree. And then why don't you go with one big consensus because every law that is unanimously adopted in this high house, whether they want to admit it or not, sends a very clear and strong message to those who should implement it. However, if there are political crackdowns, then the law unfortunately loses its strength. And I will repeat what I have already said several times, it would be a shame not to use this desire for consensus. I will call it exactly that, both in political factors and in all the relevant factors participating in Swiss, these are CNB, business banks and lenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97284	Dear colleague representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97285	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Shuker, I will refer to three things you said in your debate outside the club. So first, you said that as a consequence of the application of this law there would be several different courses in circulation. There won't be a few different courses, so there'll still be only one, the official one, let's call it that, which will be used by both economics and banks and credit institutions and citizens and which in the coming months will either grow or fall. This frozen course of 6.39 mentioned in this legislative proposal is an artificial course, if we can say so, which will be used only in this law as an interventional measure aimed at solving a huge problem of part of Croatian citizens. The second thing, you insist that, moreover, you condition and support this legislative proposal to treat euro-based loans equally. It cannot be treated in the same way as loans in euro because euro borrowers are as consumers, and this is about the consumer credit law, they are not in the same situation as this group that has loans under Swiss credits. And thirdly, you're right when you say this bill is a political decision. Indeed, this legislative proposal is a political decision and it is good that all clubs are sensitive to help Croatian citizens and that everyone is ready to share a shared responsibility for this attempt, a valuable attempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97286	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97287	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelash, you basically said what I said, there will be two courses. 'Cause look, you're... No, no, as soon as you've set the rate at which an annuities will be calculated for loans that have a basis for Swiss, while the CNB will set a course for other transactions related to Swiss nationals in the Republic of Croatia, these are two courses. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The third thing that may appear to you, you may have a problem with the euro tomorrow, and then you will have a multiple exchange rate. It's definitely a danger. However, the proposal of our conclusion brings... from not touching the course, because the course is not mentioned anywhere. The law does not regulate the euro, yes, the euro is a potential danger. What happens if the euro doesn't give God a jump to 8.20? What will happen to the obligation to the Croatian state's anunities, what will happen to interest on the loans of the Croatian state, what will happen to Croatian citizens? So I say, it would be better if the conversion of Swiss into euro or kunas would be made depending on what Croatian citizens would like and then they would have a uniform problem which would be far easier to solve and could be far easier to set measures. Yeah, I said this is a political decision, I didn't want to use the other one after that, and I'm not going to say for the simple reason why if we offer the conclusion that this law is being passed by some consensus then I don't want to go into some kind of heavy accounting. But this is a political decision that's not good and it really has a political character and that's what the prime minister said. She's political, and she's not professional. And here it's strictly a matter of expertise, because this decision, if it's not an expert, can cost us all a lot of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97288	Dear colleague, Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97289	If the policy, if this decision is not professional and tell me whether they were professional donors and whether the creditors were acting professionally, i.e. Borrowers. That's what Professor O'Donnell told you. Popov. By law, our law and our own laws where the parent banks were obliged to inform their clients, first of all they were obliged to advertise afterwards before the contract was concluded, before accepting the offer at the time of the contract and during the duration of the contract. Did they say that? Did they tell people that after 10 years of paying off their loan by another third, they would grow? Did they say that? They didn't say. So, if we agree with that, it is actually interest, credit price, and any price for this legal work to be valid must be determined according to our regulation, including all European regulations or regulations. This interest is undeterminable and they admit it themselves. We don't even know how much that's gonna go. So why do you say people were naive? People weren't naive, and I'm increasingly convinced they weren't naive because they can't believe that someone like that, an honest man can't believe that someone can cheat on them that bad. And I believe that we will not suffer the situation that our society is made up of fraud and fraud, but of honest and responsible people, individuals and institutions. That's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97290	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97291	My colleague Antičević, it's all ok. What you're saying is that you're the only one who's been jumping interest and major. And here interest is no problem, here is the main problem. Why? If you've raised, say, 100,000 with a base of 100,000 Swiss, that's where you were in 2005, the sixth was 450 thousand kuna. After today's course, that's over 770,000 kuna. And the logical thing is that in 10 years, you couldn't reduce that much capital, and that's the key problem. And that's what we want to solve, and that's why the banks and the CNB introduced the currency clause, that's why. Well, let's not keep it like we don't know what it's all about. So that's the key problem. And what fixed interest at 3.32 or 3.39 last year, she basically didn't solve anything. Because when someone's principal jumps 60%, then you're gonna bring his interest down to zero in principle he's not gonna get anything. But if his interest is 3 and a half percent, and his principal has jumped 20% he means 6 times in loss because 6 times 3 and something else is 20. Therefore, these are facts. And that's why I've been saying this all along that because of these facts, we don't have any new facts in the future, and you're right. I did if you were listening when I was saying why banks must bear part of the burden. I just said because they didn't do their job the way they were supposed to. Unfortunately, however, someone says it implies that the currency clause says so. But unfortunately, when we agreed at the time that we had a currency clause, then we accepted this together. However, I say there is a good will to resolve this problem and let us not, for the sake of a political decision, those who have a good will to resolve it from themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97292	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the HSU Club and the esteemed colleague, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97293	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed deputy, colleagues and colleagues. On Thursday, January 15th, the Swiss National Bank shocked all credit users with a currency clause especially in Croatia and Poland, as it unexpectedly abolished the Swiss franc's defence course towards the 1.20 euro euro euro euro euro euro. It was the result of investor pressure, which at the time of the debt crisis in the euro zone in Switzerland sought a safe port for their capital. During the night, the kuna course towards Swiss flew to the sky, and the credit rates of Croatian citizens increased on average from 500 to 700 kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, there are about 60,000 contracted loans in Swiss and with a currency clause that have come into a very difficult position because of the increased loan war. As a result, this law introduces an extraordinary measure for 12 months to fix the exchange rate of 6.39 in relation to Swiss for one Swiss franc, which currently mitigates the position of debtors. This measure is to put an end to the fire that has only stalled since the time when banks from only them known interests have offered consumers loans in kunas with a currency clause in Swiss. Why did they offer this when we had the euro with our domestic kuna at the time? Was this a well-designed scenario of banks because in 2006 the course was 4.6 kuna for a Swiss franc, which was a real bait for citizens and more favourable than loans in euro. In addition, we had our Croatian National Bank which did not respond to the appearance of a third currency in the credit sky of Croatia. Even today, no one knows whether these banks actually bought a Swiss franc on the financial market or whether it was just a hoax. Governor Vujčić says these days that banks have not earned anything from such a store, which I highly doubt. On the other hand, we had citizens who took such favourable loans in Swiss and didn't think much about a possible crisis in the next 30 years and problems in paying off credit. They didn't count on losing their jobs, so there could be a serious illness, death, or any other mishap. Of course, young families need an apartment, right away, and a car, few who have realized that for 100,000 euros of credit for 30 years more than double. At this time, banks who only fought for the greater gain have been significantly secreted by the risk and uncertainty of exchange rate change. And our central bank, even though it's called the People's, didn't take advantage of its role as supervisors and regulators because it didn't protect its citizens. The CNB has been on the sidelines for years, keeping a stable exchange rate towards the euro, and now she can't run away from responsibility either. And third parties, i.e. citizens who took such loans, bear part of the responsibility. At the end of last year, when there was a growth of 3,23% interest in a television show, one citizen explained his case. He says in one year he took out a loan for the apartment, and his wife took a second year's loan for the car. Of course, after losing a job, one of them loan wars could no longer return. In the case of citizens, it all comes down to financial literacy, maybe we can say illiteracy, the desire to settle the housing issue urgently, buy a car for work, go on vacation or go skiing. That's where I have to mention, since we're retired, generations of pensioners who lived at another time, at a time of great inflation, when there weren't so many banks but there were loans. Houses were also built, apartments were purchased, and more courageous ones were taking loans from inflation, so the war fell on a pack of cigarettes. And those others were building houses for the whole working life, right up until retirement. Credit withdrawal is a personal decision and responsibility of every citizen, especially when it comes to long-term loans, and thus a greater risk. To put an end to this fire, the government reacted urgently, sent before us an amendment to this law. The Croatian Banks Association threatens to sue constitutionally, debtors and the Association "Franak" are somewhat satisfied. Economists warn of a double course, one of the 6.39 kunas set by the government for these loans and the other CNB that applies to all other transactions. It is, however, a temporary measure that gives room for all foreign, state, bank, CNB to find the right solution that would satisfy all parties. For a long time, the Franak Association has been fighting for debtors in Switzerland, which is still a relatively smaller group of debtors because yesterday I read in the media that 73% of housing loans were approved with a currency clause in the euro. One hypothetical question can be asked what would happen if depending on the elections in Greece, what was one of our economists talking about, the euro flew off like Swiss and shocked an even greater number of euro debtors and the CNB, like the Swiss National Bank, gave up defending the kuna? In that case, the consequences would be catastrophic, not only for the citizens but also for the state. By accepting this amendment, the government is trying to help its citizens in trouble, but it is not the end of this story. The question is how to solve the conversion of the Swiss franc when the CNB can't order it to the banks but not to make its own reservation. The conversion also has its own price that banks are not willing to pay. They've forgotten who's beaten up billions of dollars in their recovery, and they've been making a huge profit for years. The banks cooked up this problem and their responsibility is the biggest, and right behind them and the CNB. In addition to these institutions, the need for financial description of consumers, information on financial products and bank services and making the right decision on the management of family finances is visible. Therefore, the whole solution will have to be agreed by the banks, the CNB, the debtors, the Croatian government and this Parliament. The club of HSU representatives will support this addition of the law but we also have one question, as regards the draft law in Article 11d, this formulation would be that the Swiss exchange rate per kuna is determined at the level of 6.39 kuna for a Swiss franc for a period of 1 year. Perhaps it should be up to a year, given that some other agreement can be reached and that this article does not confuse it from the course being 6.39. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97294	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is the turn of a respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97295	Thank you very much. My colleague Shemper is very smart and very intelligent to say this remark of yours on this deadline for up to a year. So, God forbid a lasting agreement is reached before among those who are interested. You were talking about interested people in saying in this accident of a Swiss franc, in this tsunami that here every hour is more expensive for one kuna that franc. You said it was commercial banks, that it was CNB, that it was government, then citizens, and this Parliament, but you see when you're raising credit in any currency, then you're going to go to a public notary that's segregating your loan contract. What does it mean to solemnize a contract that pays a thousand, two depending on the amount of credit? This means that a public notary must explain to you by the Law on Public Registration the meaning and consequences of this act, the withdrawal of credit. We can't not blame ourselves, but also be responsible for that part, perhaps in a small part exempt from this responsibility and public notation that must explain the meaning and effect of the loan. And another thing, when you spoke about the recapitalisation of banks made by Croatian citizens, the whole of Croatia participated in the recapitalisation, and later someone sold them, we know who, foreigners. Just look at the principal loans in the Swiss francs that have grown so much by changing the course that I'm convinced there's little anyone who can bring them back for life, the principal, not interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97296	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed fellow representative Željko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97297	Well, my colleague Grubisic, we all know that billions of people have been shot at that recovery and we believe that banks should now return some of that to citizens who are in the far most difficult position. What I've proposed to modify the article I don't think it takes 12 months, it's like some kind of deadline, we think that this time out can be much shorter so that by agreement all sides can be settled in two or three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97298	Dear colleague Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97299	Thank you. I'm listening to only one sentence, so of course the citizens are partly guilty of the situation, and I'm one of those who took credit in Swiss and no one can tell me that I didn't know what I was signing. And besides what my colleague says, ignorance doesn't justify such business. No one forced anyone to sign the contract. But the point is that at a time when these so-called. housing loans offered were most attractive on the market because simply in Swiss you didn't have to give away the mortgage on a specific facility or any other guarantee. You shouldn't have had a believer or you shouldn't have a jury because let's be honest who you're gonna be on 20 years of housing credit today, very little. These are the people in the Swiss monetary system very well understood and then went with that marketing good spin. You don't have to have a guarantee with us, just give us a mortgage and take the Swiss loan. And that's all the story. And we all believed that story of theirs, counting that Switzerland was a monetaryally stable state that it would be a 4 point something like the course that was when I raised it. Who would expect it to be today's Swiss course and who would know how much longer it grows. So, of course, it's now one situation that can be difficult to get out of, unless politics is as brave as it was in Hungary and cut it out, so what happens happens. So delay the political loss on one side or profit by politically saving the financial situation of your people. That's what the government needs to say about, and this is a good start. The question is whether it's enough of a move that's under discussion today or whether it needs to be even more radical in some things. Formal-legal there are elements to cancel these types of contracts, the only question is whether we have the courage, the time and the strength to deal with it individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97300	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed fellow representative Željko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97301	Well, here's when loans are raised, so it's important to get the credit. Citizens don't read the five, six pages of change written, it's important to get what was required, it's important to get an apartment. But for example, when it comes to dedicating, where there aren't so many occlusive actions, we can say, there's a citizen who knows exactly what interest he's going to have, knows what value he's invested in, and knows exactly how much interest he's going to get after a year of handout. Here, when you borrow whether or not the bank spoke, it's certainly not, that if you raise 100,000 francs that you might eventually return the double. I think it's the citizen who's raising such a loan that in such a case, he'll think a lot more about whether or not he's going to take such a loan or he's going to raise something smaller or he's going to look for another solution. That is why I think that in Croatia, it should in some way be to describe our citizens who are not always such as the financial market or such cash transactions, that citizens should be more emissions and, in particular, by banks, in a way more informed about the consequences of such credit taking, especially while loans are long-term to 20 or 30 years for which time such shocks as this has happened this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97302	Thank you very much. We have completed a list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's time for my dear colleague, Jakša Baloevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, all day we've been discussing one big problem for all those who've been taking loans and now they've come into some trouble, so I can't repay the loans. It is therefore good that the proposal from the Government came to come in this way at least for a short time and to meet to overcome their credit problems. We will support this law with the intention that within the shortest time, all interested people sit at the table and in one quality way agree on how to solve this problem. For a long time, the question has been raised, or two questions, whether a Hungarian standard is possible and by which all loans with a currency clause would turn all debtors into kuna loans. And secondly, would this shake the banking system since it is often repeated by a highly euro-euron country in which 80% of euro-saving citizens and would the loss of the currency credit clause mean loss and protection for savings? We in the New Wave are of the opinion that the Hungarian scenario is possible and as the only way out of the current and future and similar situation. The social damage to the currency clause is much greater than that suffered by debtors in francs. That's why the foreign exchange clause needs to be abolished. The stability of a currency depends on its economy, not on the foreign exchange clause, as we have been affected by the opinion, when the euro would stop the accounting unit. For example, we bring the kunas to our savings and they calculate them into our euro, and when we raise the euro, we usually get them in kunas. The credits we raise in euro account in euro and pay in kunas. In kuna, we pay them at the euro's calculated value. This virtual euro game is possible in banking but not in the economy. And as such, the accounting unit of the foreign exchange clause may remain for savings after it has been abolished for the loans. Kuni is committed to the euro which we do not want to recognise the strength of the euro and not its economy. So bloated kuna is seemingly powerful itself and this illusion has led us to more than 45 billion kunas of external debt. And now there is a problem that Switzerland is managing its currency and the current move of the Swiss Central Bank we consider logical, smart and in the interest of the Swiss economy and the people because this... Who defended her no longer reflected the image of her economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is high time Croatia also began to manage its currency in the interests of the people and the economy and to restore all functions to the kuna. If it were to be earned and owed in kunas, then the kuna would speak as much as anyone can bear debt and there would be far less problems and execution than there are today. It wouldn't happen that because of maybe the wrong... He swears on the franc credit he gets someone he might at that point and can't pay off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This today's liberal and brokerage approach to money sees it as just... exchanges, not like a picture of the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of a Swiss franc in Croatia means that it was allowed to perform a function of money, which in one part of the kuna ceased to be a national currency of which we have negative consequences. An integral part of the economy is the ratio of money and the economy, the economy increases the value of money and money makes it possible to grow the economy and lose if you gave it to a foreign currency. So we're for abolishing the foreign exchange clause which is... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97304	Thank you, dear colleague Baloevic. It's the honorary representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97305	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. So I've already delivered my opinion today on how I feel about the model to regulate this problem legally, temporarily. I absolutely support this issue being resolved, it's a large number of people's fates. However, I still hold that this is not a good model, I still hold that an agreement should be reached, especially now that Governor Vujcic has come out of his five proposals, everyone should sit together and make one firm agreement of all stakeholders. In particular, for the reason that the decision and the Supreme Court are approaching in the audit in the case of the Franak Association and the audit, the request for a review of the banks themselves on the judgment of the High Court of Commerce. Given that this verdict can significantly change the relations of forces when it comes to the currency clause, I think that the Supreme Court should be asked to make their decision and, on the basis of that, to take concrete measures for the permanent settlement of this issue of the foreign exchange clause. Why do I say that? Because a European Court of Justice ruling in Case C26/13 Kasler v OTP was reached on 30.4.2014, so it was an important decision on a consumer loan with a Swiss currency clause offered by banks 10 years ago, practically all Eastern European countries from Hungary, Romania and Serbia offered Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are practically all in the same problem. So this Kassler was suing, so it was approved, that Kassler was granted a loan in forints along with the Swiss currency clause. And they sued the bank to determine the integrity of the currency clause provisions because they had to pay after 10 years of far greater interest than it was at the very beginning when they negotiated the loan. And they asked for that provision to be agreed on by the currency clause, asking for an unfair provision in the consumer contract. And to declare legal nothingness. That request, that lawsuit of theirs, also went through all the court cases and came very quickly to the Supreme Court of Hungary. Hungary's Supreme Court has stopped acting and has asked the International Court of Justice for legal opinion. The International Court of Justice has just confirmed what I've been talking about. When we take that to our case, I remind you of what I said at the beginning, the Supreme Court needs to make its decision. The Supreme Court cannot make a different decision than has already taken the International Court of Justice on the same legal matter. The decision of the International Court of Justice has practically become an integral part of our legislation, and it seems to me that it was only necessary to hurry up and ask the Supreme Court to make its decision and then move on with one permanent, after that decision on this issue. I repeat, only legal regulation by me will cause quite a lot of turbulence. I remind you that banks aren't domestic banks, they're foreign owners. I remind you that they will not respond so well in this legal way to solve the problem, and I fear that there will be any lawsuits before international courts. And that's why I think before this solution should be made, another additional effort should be made, especially because all the participants, the actors, have already agreed, and we heard that on the board yesterday, on the parliamentary committee. Perhaps it was necessary to leave for a month, two or three hours and have the Supreme Court decide and finally start to form a permanent solution to these problems. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97306	Thank you, too, dear fellow MP. It is up to the honourable representative Petar Baranovic. Here's my colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97307	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The day-long debate comes slowly before the end of the day, but given the seriousness of the topic and the seriousness of the situation it would be very ugly if this honorary home had singled out less than one working day for such a topic, and it would be even uglier if future Croatian politics had served such things as seriously as it has served for the past 20 years. Today during the debate, we felt a consensus of all policy options that it was necessary to find a quality solution and protect citizens in this situation. There were differing opinions about whether this government measure that was adopted was so spotlessly quality, how sufficient it was. I will say immediately in the beginning the position of the People's Party of Reformists and my personal, we consider this only a temporary measure, an intervention, we advocate a more quality solution. We also made our proposal very clear, which was presented this morning in the debate, so there is no point in repeating it, and it is presented in the Croatian public. However, we need to do things in order to look qualityly into the truth and ask ourselves, in fact, how old this problem is. We have now reacted as a society, now we have reacted as a policy, this government has reacted at least in this way, and this extraction story... actually legally covered by the robbery of Croatian citizens of credit and Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, farmers, OPG owners, has been going on for years. The story of Swiss is so old that it eventually provoked the formation of one of the most powerful civil society associations to protect its own head. It's not a whim. I take them much more seriously than some other civil society association. People have water to their throats. There have been criticism on account of this proposal and thinking whether or not to support it, we will support it, and I will explain why. I am experiencing this situation where the Croatian Government and the Croatian Prime Minister are experiencing, pulling a parallel into a former professional world of mine. You're on a piece of bridge, and you're getting information that you have a breach of the sea, that your ship is sinking. Then in this situation, you can't perform a high-quality hull reconstruction, but you're putting on a fast-linking cement, you're stopping the breach, and then you're thinking about where you're going to make a quality patch of the ship. In this situation where Croatian citizens were found, the government had to do something urgent and in that part we welcome it, I personally welcome it as a representative and citizen, although I do not have a Swiss loan, fortunately. But we insist on dealing with this issue in a quality way as quickly as possible. That, as counterpart Skare-Ozbolt stressed in her presentation, will not be at all simple. Because unfortunately, by deciding again on Croatian politics many years ago, we allowed ourselves to have the entire banking sector first rescheduled and prepared by money from Croatian taxpayers, and then delivered to foreign banks that work in this area as well as all other significant foreign companies, what they think is not functioning by the institutions of the legal society, i.e. the Croatian institutions of the state operate on that famous Orwell farm that I probably mentioned in this House at least 10 times in these three years, I am now 11. Everyone is equal, only some are more equal than others, or in this society there are untouchable. And the policy led by the CNB and led today is driven by untouchables. A policy that has completely suspended every sense of work and production, which has taken off the pedestal, and placed on the pedestal a trade, speculantly and then put ourselves in a position to withdraw the pedestal measure for the pedestal measures that are bad and which have consistently brought us into this situation so that citizens cannot repay the loans. Because I will remind you, because of the poor thinking and moves and the lack of understanding of real and national interests, Croatian politics has led citizens to the situation that two or three times over the last few years has put real wages down, and thus puts citizens in a position that they cannot service their credit obligations. The question arises how far will we approach problems in this way? On this occasion, I appeal to all my colleagues all the political options that we finally stop sharing on important strategic issues, because with such political practice in previous generations of this called the Parliament, in the previous generations of the executive government we have brought the state into a situation that reminds it of a tilted ship. We've brought the state into an unexplainable situation that today has a relic of the relic of sovereignty, that even this aspect that we're talking about today has no real sovereignty, that in energy we don't have real sovereignty, in the diet of the population, in ensuring sufficient amounts of food that is absurd, we don't have real sovereignty. We don't have political sovereignty, we've equally unprincipled one example when it comes to ZERP. I guess we're the only maritime country in the world except for Greece that hasn't declared an economic belt, because we've never looked at our own interests, but we've always bowed to the interests of foreigners. And this tragedy that is happening, the social and economic in Sisak with the refinery, tomorrow in Rijeka, is generally due to such political work and approach with the INA. Let's break up with that practice once. To the story of the Swiss, Croatian politics was supposed to react in time when I had not yet even dealt with it, when the whole story began, professionally, responsiblely, professional politics would recognise the beginning of the problem, see the consequences that would follow and prevent the whole story. Today we save people's heads and that's what's positive in the quick move and reaction of the Croatian government, even if this solution has a series of shortcomings. But let's start taking things seriously, doing it seriously. What the People's Party – reformists and I expect as a representative is that a quality long-term solution that has been valid for more than a year and that will really solve the problem without us or our citizens entering legal conflicts is to start doing it immediately and to exclude foreigning, politics and the lowest personal political interests from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97308	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97309	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. If a Roman citizen were to face some danger and the dangers were lurking, but being a Roman citizen at that time meant being absolutely protected from whom? From the Roman state. And they'd talk but lime tangeres civ humanus sum. I don't care. I'm a Roman citizen. So he was sure no matter who attacked him, what trouble he would face if he was a Roman citizen were Roman peasants, too, right? If they were citizens, is that already the notion of citizenship has evolved? Some still don't know that day, but it doesn't matter, they'll learn to be protected. And what does the state do and what's its duty? And no one said, so there's no eye rub. We solved the problem, we delayed the problem for a year. This is the first aid to stop the payment of any kind under such a course. This is something that is the most normal thing that every country does and needs to do, and no one should question or condition something, and if there is a systematic solution to the problem, that is what the Government has announced and all these proposals that go in this respect are for it. But if someone says I'm not going to vote for this right now because it's not the whole solution that requires, however, an expert one basis, serious work, requires some time. He can't do it from today to tomorrow as we could with this measure. But this is something we can do and we have to do. Therefore, I do not believe until the end of the good intentions of those who, for God's sake, warn when they condition it, because this is a fire, and at present this bar needs to be put out, and where there is a hot spot, we will see how it should be solved. Here's the government already coming up with some ideas. We see that other countries affected, unfortunately, are only Central European countries, east of what did counterpart Skare-Ozbolt say, so I'm asking myself how did it not come to the heart of Western Europe to offer these loans? I think the police would have come for them right away. It's mine like this, maybe naive, but I can see what's going on. Why is it happening here, and it's not happening there. The truth is, most countries are there in the euro zone, but let's say the UK isn't. Well, good. It's not good, but I want to explain why I support this bill. So many regulations were quoted here. Since 2004, this type of loan has begun. Some say they've been warned. I don't remember anyone warning her. The duty was quoted here by the Austrian National Bank. I say, I'm here on several occasions, and today she's just betrayed, I say a declaration, a whole panflette where she talks, informs citizens of high-risk foreign credit that she considers extremely speculative high-risk business and repeats and tells citizens, not only the clients, she warns. In today’s day, no one can know how the exchange rate will develop, and thus the amount of the loan rate will develop in the future. It further warns citizens, five foreign credit rules. Raise the foreign exchange credit only if you can afford such funding and loans in euro. It goes on to say, always be aware of the risks, credit interest rates, exchange rates and contributions to financial investments are extremely variable. Furthermore, keep in mind the fundamental economic principle of current development at favourable interest rates or exchange rates is in no way a guarantee for the future. Use exclusively financial products you understand yourself. At our governor's, at our CNB torment all the time, not A. But good, that's one thing. But they were business banks under the law of this company, which we are changing today about consumer lending, which speaks about citizens' intelligence, and then potential clients, and especially where they warn them about what this credit means, which it will mean in the main, in interest, a whole series of these are exactly what several articles say about notifying. Were the people informed? Have they been informed in a very way, this example has been etched on me perhaps there are even more drastic examples that you, has anyone told these people listen to you it is such a loan that is now favourable but for you, because it is a favourable course, but for some time let's say for example. as it happened during the nine years you will have such a principal that you will still be in debt after 9 years of paying and interest first and foremost if you had a loan in equivalent to 500 thousand kuna you will after 9 years of paying your debt will amount to the kuna equivalent of 750 thousand kuna. So you show me the person who would sign it. They're not! So they were lured, they were deluded, they were deceived. And I guess someone has to answer for that. If Janko did that to Mark, he'd be a loan shark, he'd be 10, 15 years in jail, and we'd be scared and yelling and screaming all the time like that. And what response do we have today from the Croatian Banking Association? What are they telling us? They argue with each other, they say it will be paid by Croatian citizens. And who's paying for this? Yes, Croatian citizens will pay. They'll pay for it, too. Actually, not who's gonna pay for it, it's something that's been taken, and it didn't belong, or people agree on it. It's a contractual relationship. Even before this law, which we have often quoted as the Consumer Credit Act, the Consumer Protection Act, should also be cited by law, and the fundamental principles of the Law on Mandatory Relations. We talked there about those cash contracts and we quoted them. However, first and foremost, every norm must fulfil its objectives and principles, principles under the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is a roof law, and this law is a special and special law. Therefore, no one can derrogate nor ignore the norms of this law in Croatia, and that is the basic principles of bargaining. And these are the principles. Transport participants freely regulate mandatory relations, yes. But they cannot be regulated against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by the coercion and morals of society. Is it the morale of society that someone for 10 years, 9 years, every month pays off and after 9 years he owes more than 30%? So let me see that Constitutional Court or any court that'll say we're wrong. Then we here will nicely turn off the light and hand over both legislative and any other power to other branches of government and we no longer have what to do here. Equality of participants in mandatory relationship. The participants in the mandatory relationship are equal. Were they even? First of all, every time a man borrows money, he's in an inferior position. It's always a man in some way in trouble. And this one should certainly be warned about what Article 4 of the principle of conscience and honesty speaks about. In establishing mandatory relations and the exercise of rights and obligations under these relations, participants are obliged to adhere to the principles of awareness and honesty. Is that fair, is that conscious, did they tell people? Well, that was the whole campaign. It's just now that people are talking to us even more strongly. Well, they were persuaded, come on. And it's a whole campaign. So nobody's pushing you so much, they're offering you certain services they're happy to call industry now after we don't have industry, and then that's the only industry left for us, industry only if it's in that sense what fellow Grubisic was talking about, then it's the industry of human accidents and troubles. And now it is not up to you to complain and grieve but to see what we can do, and not to waste time, but to see what we can do about it. And the duty of cooperation. They are obliged to cooperate in order to fulfil their obligations fully and neatly and to know such contractual obligations. The prohibition of abuse of rights, the principle of equal value of the spell. Is that equal value if that apartment on average is 50, 60 square feet as much as it would now be worth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97310	Thank you, too, dear colleague. At your presentation, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't mean to call at all today, but I have to tell you, my colleague Anticevic, this is how you asked if someone had been advised in banks and said it was dangerous to raise a loan in Swiss francs. It was obvious from your argument that no one had told anyone. Well, the truth of the matter isn't exactly the way it is. So I was personally told that it was more favourable at the moment but that it was insecure, so I decided on the euro. So it's not like that. The fact is that this is a good move by the prime minister, I say, because he made a decision before he was a cabinet session he was a great political populism super used on people's accidents. What we've been listening to here all day today, and many of you have been saying is, in fact, I was supposed to go in one even better direction. He must go to protect the citizens, tomorrow they will have to protect those who have in euros the same because the euro is no longer in the value as it has been said here before and there have grown wars. But it would've been better if we'd put a few more ideas out here today how to solve it all the way to the end that it doesn't have to stretch out a little bit of that problem and stretch out. But I repeat, it's not exactly like that, it shouldn't be said that way. So the three-part responsibility is both banks and states, of course, in protection, but also those who took the loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97312	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97313	So when you were instructed so well and instructed you were obviously an exception and apparently you had one privileged information, but I leave it to you or to your conscience or to commend the conscientious bank clerk. But, Mr. Dear, without making any suggestions here, you're talking about the populism of a man who's the most responsible and who has to react the same second as he did and then you're still talking about people's accidents. What's it supposed to be? If he sits down, he doesn't do anything to make sure you don't object to him. You are the only one who complains, and with many people who have fallen into trouble for various reasons, there will be more. And you just enjoy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97314	We continue the debate individually for 10 minutes. Dear colleague of Parliament Vesna Sabolic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since it's over today and everything is said, I'd take the opportunity to ask Mr. Hrg who you're banking with, sir? Of course, of all these discussions, we've heard great solutions, great suggestions, great debates. I would now just take advantage of the occasion and say what a bit bothered me in some allegations, which is that the creditor's users are basically equally guilty of taking favourable loans. And I'll tell you now, I have before me one payment plan from a gentleman who took credit in good faith, of course in euro. And then he came into a situation that even the euro loan could not pay off neatly and regularly. And that was just the time when banks placed one of their new products or one of their new services, so they called their clients and said that they are now designed and have private bankers, now I quote what they said "experienced professionals who will analyze the wishes and needs of clients in detail and suggest optimal opportunities for them". And people went to their personal bankers. This definition stands for you today on the banks' portals to private bankers. So this gentleman who went to his personal banker to see what could be done and he was naturally suggested to transfer it all together to the Swiss francs. He got 718 thousand 980 kuna or 156 thousand and 300 Swiss francs, the course was 4.6. The interest is perfectly favourable to 3,88, but that interest lasted only 5 months. And in the next three years, interest has come to 6.20, and course has risen this black Thursday to 7.44. In the nine years the gentleman has paid off 347 thousand and 343 kuna, and the rest of the debt on that black Thursday is 815 thousand 535.46. Of course, the gentleman got into a situation that he couldn't pay off and that he had to make a conversion because he went into early retirement not by his own free will. Many have lost their jobs, of course, by their own free will. And the fact is that the drop is really on the edge of the glass and that I really don't have to wait and welcome the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to deal with this problem by law, that people don't come into a situation where the media's instructions and thanked the prime minister for providing them with a peaceful dream, but they got a wish on the third day to jump out the window, when they saw the course of the Swiss franc. What I'm saying is, here it was even argued that it was an illegal acquisition of banks. It means it's a crime scene. Clearly, these housing loans were not taken for speculative reasons because they did not speculate with 20-year-old loans. It is speculated over a short period of time. So I think all these discussions that have been going for the benefit of the citizens. The government is here to protect the citizens and I definitely agree with the gentleman who suggested only one small change, and it means up to a year. I think we should thank you for the rapid reaction on behalf of all citizens and in this year how long negotiations and agreements should be taken into account all constructive remarks made by MPs, but it is definitely time for this House to react so quickly and I think that it is good and that it should not be allowed for people on the streets to seek their justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97316	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97317	Thank you very much. I can't say, but you actually advertised one bank because that ad is very famous, so I'm not going to repeat what banks are about. No, it wasn't in that bank, it was in each other. But what I'm saying is that what's said here and just before in the replicas and replies to the replicas that I've been privileged, I haven't, so over 80% of Croatian citizens have loans in another currency, so they've all been privileged. This is a problem that exists, but the fact is what I'm saying and what I'm saying, so this won't solve the problem, and that's what I'm saying today. And we proposed two, three days ago some measure, three measures, means the adoption of a loan ban law in other currencies other than euro and kuna. We have to tie ourselves to some currency, at least that's what I think, that's what experts think. The second thing was to bring legal obligations to convert all agreed loans into euro or kuna but by choice of the borrower. So it can be decided, it can be determined. And most importantly, what we're talking about here today, the cost of conversion won't be able to handle just one side, it's going to have to be handled equally, it's going to have to be borne by the state, it's going to have to be borne by the banks. And then there's the right solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97318	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97319	Thank you very much, sir. I asked who you bankers were so we could know who shouldn't advise us how we're gonna solve this problem. ... I do not agree with you that we should equally bear the burden of conversion because we have not even benefited equally, here the banks have made a huge profit and that we are not talking about how much, whether it is financial engineering or not, that should be determined by those who are professional and invited to do so but I just want to say that the most important thing is that the Government and the Parliament respond in time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And this is now on time and we have until the year we don't listen to exactly the ones we've been banking with so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97320	Who are you banking with? Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97321	This example that you colleagues set is what happened to a lot of people. That's why what my colleague Hrg is talking about right now is an exception, and unfortunately this was a rule. Although Article 10. The mandatory relationship law I quoted earlier suggests that a participant in a mandatory relationship is obliged to meet the obligations of his professional activity, such as banks, to deal with increased attention. So they require even greater attention, therefore even greater concern for the client for the explanation. Now, that would be a professional approach, not some kind of populist thing that our companion here, a colleague of the Hrg, tells the prime minister that there is a populist act that goes towards the deceived, to the troubles of the people. So the write-off of debts and all that seems to be populist spells, you see there are also such thoughts. Perhaps, together, we'll ask a colleague of the Khrg, did he write off debt to the poor in his Križevci?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97322	Nothing. Does the Deputy Minister of Finance want a final word? We've exhausted the list of registered agents. Here's a colleague, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the really shortest, thank you really to all of you, especially who you are in this late hour, but thank you to all the clubs for the debate and for all the individuals in the debate. I think we've heard a lot of good, a lot of solutions, I don't know how my colleague said, a lot of great solutions, maybe they weren't great, but a lot of good, a lot of good suggestions are on the table right now. And that's exactly what this proposal is here to say, to make it possible for us to have a more peaceful atmosphere. You know that until recently I sat with you, there were more and more heated debates and today, with of course a little folklore that must be in one parliament there was a lot, a lot of constructive debate and it was actually the main benefit of this measure. So with the anxiety spreading through this external blow that has occurred, independent of our events, meaning it happened in the far and friendly Swiss decision of the Swiss People's Bank, has shaken many markets, has shaken many countries, we are simply this firm decision, so someone will also tell the prime minister's decision but also the government but ultimately you, it doesn't matter now whose proposal, the prime minister is, I was talking about the previous... his discussions carried out intensive consultations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there were a lot of conversations, some were published, some were not published, so he was fully informed and he knew how and what he proposed. And I think we've proposed an ideal solution but the best possible solution at this time. The point is, that reaction was quick. Many debates were said to have been colored and these last and as I said and expected the guilt was shared between these three or four subjects depending on the angle of the observer and they were all in their own way right and there were unfortunately examples of both the other and the third. Everyone said the problem existed and I compared it myself as one volcano was that Swiss there was, a volcano that was smoldering, which at any moment could explode and has not exploded these 10 years and now it has blasted twice and both times the government, so the current government, the SDP government, Milanovic's government reacted quickly, spotively and that fire extinguished. And with a reaction so in 2013, with a reaction to interest and now with this reaction. Without the pretense to say we're taking the result that we've solved the problem, aware that we haven't solved it, but we've put people on the table. Here today, while we are talking about the announced expected decision by the European Central Bank to release funds for the purchase of government bonds, euro area countries. Huge numbers, 60 billion a month in the coming year and police days, 60 billion euros. Every week Croatian budget one, I now imagined myself, each week one Croatian budget for the next 80 weeks of liquid assets in the euro area. Let's just figure out how small we are in that segment of ours and how small such impact is actually external to a smaller market, unregulated then markets. Mrs. Anticevic spoke nicely, unfortunately then the market was neither fully regulated nor legally nor rules, learned rules, relationships. Every day we make progress here, but I say then the Consumer Credit Act didn't even exist when the problem arose. The Consumer Credit Act started on 1.1.2010, and that's one of the reasons I say things didn't work out. But like I said, to protect ourselves from any further blows, possible shocks, that I'm not spreading some pessimism now, but it's possible that things can calm down. That... is probably going to come into some zone that's going to be close to the euro and Swiss, but I'm saying I'm not enchanting. Our obligation, this decision is to protect the weaker in this process, and we have made this decision. Cost, if any, i.e. The cost of this increase and any new increase that will take place goes to a more powerful burden. The assessment is if the course remains 1:1 that is 400 million kuna per year. In those eight banks, it's not that much for banks, you know what their numbers are, but we also encourage banks. It's an excellent accelerator and everything else to solve the problem as soon as possible. So if we solve it in two months what we'd like, in three months, then it's not 400 but it's 4-5 times smaller, so then we get to actually small numbers. The cost of transition will come, all sides will have to give way somewhere, but the goal is and I say some analyses have come out, there will be even more analysis out, we will have a quieter discussion, healthier bases and all the factors will have to come up with a solution that will obviously have to be compromised, but will be much easier made thanks to this decision as well. By supplementing the law for which I read from the views of clubs and individuals that will be supported tomorrow, but here I would also like to have the uniformly supported tomorrow in order to find a responsible, social, hopefully permanent solution, as fair a solution as possible. As well as your discussions here, probably depending on the angle of observers will not all be satisfied, they will say that someone has gone better, someone has gone worse, but I believe that we will manage to find a fair solution on sound bases, on sound analyses, on these calculations that can be drawn from these 10 years of what has been done and that then the CNB as a Moderator, Ministry of Finance in its case as sponsor of this process and two sides of the private-law relationship, I learned it from the bankers well, when they defend it they always said it was a private-leg relationship, you have no right to interfere in that, that they really achieve these agreements and to the satisfaction of all of us and to get out of this bad product as they say. Here I'm getting some signals that these six minutes and 10 seconds have been enough for the final word. Thank you all for staying here and thank you in advance for your support tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97324	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. ... Instead of applause, I'd say a Swiss decision, and Croatian torment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So much for independence. And I am reporting my debate when you come with a final proposal, a single debate, I hope it will be soon, that a lasting proposal will come soon, so I am reporting my debate on the subject. We're gonna stop now. We've closed the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met in this proposal, and that's tomorrow, I hope, at 12 o'clock. And we will begin again at the 9.30 plenary session with the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, with a final proposal. ... I'm sorry, I'm reading the agenda that I have the only one so I wasn't informed that the Legislative Committee had decided, and the home yesterday... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But then I could get the agenda fixed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a law on agriculture, first reading, etc. Thank you very much. First of all, the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 785. The debate on the text of the law is over. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I give the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: - For the reverse of Article 2 of the final proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, there are particularly valid reasons. Please vote. ... The legislator is asking, it's all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I say, legislator wants the law back. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We suggest it. I'm listening, I've already put my colleagues to the vote. ... And to make a difference. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For the feedback of Article 2, it shall be made clear and out loud. It's like that in the Rules of Procedure all the time, buddy. This isn't the first time. Who suggested it? Proposer. ... You got him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, look at the materials. I'll read to you, Legislative Committee, Class 22-03/15-01/10 hours. [[I first saw that conclusion.]] 6521... Yes, yes report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They got everything. ... And a proposal from a colleague, that's common. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I just don't know what the problem is. It's the usual thing. ... You got him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. What? I asked for a vote on the reverse effect of Article 2 of the final draft law. Who's up for a vote. ... Don't vote on me now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 93 votes voted in favour, 1 vote abstention and 1 vote against the proposed conclusion. The government has submitted an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97326	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. If we voted on the conclusions, the HDZ Club proposed two conclusions and asked that these conclusions have the same treatment and status as the board's conclusions. Because we can't have a double. Therefore, if we stick to the practice of voting on the conclusions of some before, some later ask that the HDZ Club's conclusions be voted before the law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97327	Comrade Shuker, we must respect the Rules of Procedure as we have so far. This is feedback, and one article is provided for, and that is the only way we can pass laws. And everything else we'll be doing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please. So the government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 96 votes are in favour, no abstentions and 22 votes against being accepted to debate and decide on the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the Government of the Honorable Finance Minister Boris Lalovec to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government has tabled an amendment to Article 2 which it states from an exceptional point of view of Article 3(1). The law of Article 11d of this Act applies to credit agreements in CHF and kunas with a currency clause in Swiss francs, irrespective of the total amount and type of credit, which are concluded before the entry into force of the amendment of this Act. Namely, what was going to be done with this amendment? To cover all loans independently of their amount. Since the Consumer Credit Act limits the amount to a million kuna, and this currency shock has affected all credit users, then it would happen to you, for example. that someone who has been granted a loan of 999 thousand 999 applies, and the one million and with 1 kuna actually don't apply to it. And here it's very important that depending on what course you're applying now, whether you're going to apply the one when it was or this one right now. means best and because of the easier application of the Financial Institutions Act, banks that in this part apply to all loans, and not that they start to separate these loans into one or the other, and we believe that there should be no discrimination in several kunas. Since this is the simplest application for both banks and for this law to cover in this part all independently of the amount and type of credit. Since the currency shock that intervention took place on the global financial market was so unpredictable and that we do not make certain discrimination between credit users. And I'm telling you once again between 999 grand and the one with a million and 1 kuna to cover the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97329	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament can participate. A representative of the HDZ club, Ivan Shuker, called, apologized, the first one Lesar told me at the table. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar and Ivan Šuker, who is from HDSSB Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97330	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Fifteen minutes ago, we were divided into benches by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which they are proposing to intervene in their proposal for a law we discussed yesterday. I assume that this amendment was the result of this morning's reaction by the Franak Association which publicly claimed that they were deceived when they negotiated this model of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did nobody then mention the limit of a million kuna. It was probably not necessary because the proposal to amend the law that came to the Assembly was not concerned with the provisions of Article 3 and this restriction that the entire Consumer Credit Act did not apply to loans greater than one million kuna was introduced in 2012 even then by amendments to the law. And yesterday in the debate, I warned that the government's proposal had a number of discrimination in it. One of them is exactly the amount of a million kuna. The second discrimination is according to the type of loans listed in paragraph 1 of Article 3. For the sake of accuracy and verification, Mr. Minister, you shall take all the loans referred to in Article 3(1), not only residential, but those listed in paragraph 1a, b, c, d, e, f, g, and h. Is that correct? Is that right? Therefore, this amendment would apply the Swiss restrictive provision to loans, inter alia, in operational leases and those concluded with investment companies and those where, for example, the delay in paying the existing debt with the lender. So this amendment is now correcting one of the wrongs offered because the safeguard clause, the protection course, extends to a far greater number of possible loans and also those that are not taken in banks but, say, investment companies. However, the debate on the village and the destruction of the village takes place all morning in the Assembly. And I'm making a proposal to Mr. Minister and after this amendment and the additional intervention that you've made the whole model of the law is still an unspeakable, superficial and unfair, unfair intervention. By raising the limit above millions of kunas will be protected, for example, by those credit users who bought four apartments at sea and rented it and earned income, engaged in activities. But without intervention in Article 1 of the Law, we do not protect and help the family farms who took credit for the press to produce fruit juices, got into trouble and went bankrupt or was blocked. For the purposes of Article 1 of the definition of consumers is only a natural person who acts outside of business activity or free professions in transactions covered by this law. This means that this measure does not apply to family holdings where a natural person, craftsmen and free professions appear as a credit user. Which is now the difference between protecting someone who took a Swiss loan for four apartments and owners of a family farm, who has invested in the technology of the device or anything to hire and does it and his whole family. Yesterday in the debate, Mr. Minister, you were not mentioned in the lack of the absence of social criteria and justice in such a speedy intervention as one of the serious problems. I remind you that the Croatian National Bank, now whether we can trust them or not, announced yesterday that in those 22 billion kunas, 25% of the users have 66% of the high-income credits and that these loans move around a million kunas. That's the information the governor provided instead of giving other information about where banks were in debt, in which currency and who they sold to the Swiss to give their citizens kuna loans, there's no way to find out. And in order to support this bill, I suggest a postponement of the vote by Wednesday morning. I propose that the Government reconsider the possibility of intervention in Article 1(1) of the consumer definition to extend to family farms, craftsmen and free professions. At that time, we are largely adjudicating the injustice that we only do with partial intervention in blocked, lost, blocked citizens, lost jobs and fates. In these three categories which are not covered by the formulation in Article 1 we spread the injustice and simply intervene again only in the protection of parts of the citizens. And that is why I call, as you urgently intervened after this morning's statement, the Franak Association to consider and understand that without intervention in Article 1 in the consumer definition, we will not be fair to those who have entered debt slavery, commercial loans, commercial banks. And there are possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97331	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97332	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this is how things happen when you don't know what to do, when to... state and political and unprofessional. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then what happens? And then first you change the article 11 that only talks about interest and then you want to solve the problem of the course with some extras. However, it is very interesting now how this limit to a million kuna is resolved. Because if you look at the original law, then you will see that Article 3 tells you about exceptions. And since the Government refers to Article 196. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and in Article 196 of my colleagues, I will not quote it but I can convince it, it is generally said that amendments to articles that are not subject to change cannot be submitted. And then what does the government do? As she did the stupidity of legal, business whatever you want with Article 11. ... So now it changes the complete article 3. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It amends a complete Article 3 but since it cannot be amended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it builds on it in Article 11. It embellishes it in Article 11, and only gives space to all those who have said they will announce a constitutional suit. Why? Because now with one measure like this that is totally uncritical is one large group of Croatian citizens who may be the most affected by those who have raised housing loans totally neglected, which are agricultural economies. So that's a fact, a fact we can't escape from, no matter what political battle we've been painted of. However, look at what it says in the light of this amendment, it is proposed to supplement the Consumer Credit Act applies to all credit agreements independently of the amount. So now we're coming for something else. In its argument, the Government does not refer to Article 3(1) and Article 10(1) and Article 10(1), but only to the reasons set out in this amendment for Article 3(1). And that is why it is very interesting now, Minister Lesaru replied that this amendment refers to a complete article 3. As explained by the Government, no, no, Article 3(1), and according to the Government, it refers only to Article 3(1)(a) of the first indent. Look at the material that you got on the benches of colleagues and colleagues, because here only in the government's explanation is talking about height, not type of credit. And Article 3 gives you great exceptions and then you have a number of exceptions to which the Consumer Credit Act does not apply. Therefore, this is just another deeper swimming in the adoption of laws into illegality, in injustice, in injustice to all those affected by these loans, and it is very interesting, we have read the conclusion of the Committee on Legislative Affairs on retroactive action, feedback, however you wish, but it is very interesting that the Committee on Law has not made clear on this amendment which is contrary. And I am honestly surprised that this amendment has passed the Office of Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because there is no way you can withdraw it. Because I repeat, you have the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you have a proposal for an amendment of the Government and you have an explanation and all three of you are different. All three different. So, what does this tell us? This tells us that this law is not professionally considered, it is not professionally explained, no analysis has been made to see who is really affected by this Swiss course in this country. We didn't take into account the social aspects at all, which is crucial. The biggest, in laws like this, the key thing the government has to worry about is the social aspect. We did not take into account what is very important to Croatia at the moment, the protection of entrepreneurs who have entered, did a good job and because of all this expensive happening with Swiss people are in trouble. So if we have support for a variety of economies, then this should be found. Finally, this law does not speak at all about citizens and economics who have taken loans in euro. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I think the happiest solution for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for entrepreneurs, for all who participate in this process would be to withdraw this proposal of its law, to accept the conclusion of the HDZ which says to create a 3 month moratorium where participants in the process will agree on a course that will be fixed at that time. A moratorium that says that within 3 months or 90 days the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB, the business banks, now you see, are now in trouble here. You've got other lenders here. They're not just business banks anymore. In these exceptions, you have a mutual loan. Loans to each other are not financial institutions. How are we gonna stand there? How are we gonna stand there? How will he who is to apply this law be appointed? Very difficult. And in the proposal of our conclusion, that's exactly what it's all about, the more the three-month moratorium is about, the Franak and the Business Bank, and I also expect that finally the CNB will be actively involved, not sending extra-cateral statements, and that's the only solution at this point. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, with a law like this, especially now as it's done, there will be constitutional lawsuits, there will be lawsuits, there will be everything, and we haven't dealt with the problem in principle. We don't know what the ultimate, but at this point the fiscal effect will be of this law because this law says someone said someone would have to pay for something, but when you tell someone that something should be paid, then there has to be a legal basis or agreement on why they would pay for it. There's no such thing in this case, but there's something else. There is, and this will happen on the announcement of the Croatian Banking Association, I would not want to be their lawyer and lawyer and advocate, they said that since this Consumer Credit Act was agreed, so the government and the business banks agreed to fix the interest rate and there were no lawsuits between them. So there was a deal, because if there was no agreement, the current minister, and he knows the former minister, this law could not be passed, and now that there is no agreement, the bank will launch constitutionality and this law. So the state law made far below the level of the random state as the statesman says, a state law that simply does not accept the problems of those who are very concerned about all this together. And colleagues and colleagues, let us not be surprised if the public thinks of us as he thinks. Because if we're gonna take these acts that someone's playing ping pong with us, then we don't deserve it any better. Therefore, because of all this, this amendment to the government is expensive, regardless of which it solves one problem, but brings a number of problems to the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support it. And as I said, and I ask that, with the conclusions of the Croatian Democratic Community club, to vote before voting on the law, because ultimately it will depend on us, depending on our support for the law. And what concerns me as a citizen, as a man, as a politician. In Croatia, which was very divided wanted me to or did not want to admit it, there was a situation that all participants in this process are very close to consensus. And such a consensus, that community that exists and even here in this assembly yesterday, has manifested that community over the solution to that problem. We may have different suggestions, different ideas but this unity, this desire to solve one problem by consensus, one trauma of Croatian citizens tomorrow and one trauma of the state budget collapses only one man – the Prime Minister who has not even participated in the talks. But he fucked his idea, because he's a statesman. It's a state procedure, so I don't care what Croatian citizens pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97333	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97334	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. We, the HDSSB, joined as a party those who, at the moment of that currency coup in the Swiss franc, also called on the government to find quick and effective measures and to respond to the currency blow that took place. We saw that it actually happened, perhaps for the first time in the term of office of this government that actually a quick reaction actually happened. We all in politics are aware that it is certainly part of the reason why such a quick answer has come to a sure lie in the fact that we are in the election year for parliamentary elections and I think that we all agree about it, but that does not mean that if we are in the election year, regardless of which side and which positions we are in, we cannot have a position or if it is positive and if we are not in opposition to welcome something that is positive or continue to criticise what we think is not good or that it is negative. In the case of a reaction that happens practically in a few days and which, of course, could not be negotiated, was negotiated because it was initiated by the moment and by the fact that the credit wars come monthly to those who need to pay for the freezing or temporary moratorium measure, with the retention of the payment war at 6.39 kuna per one Swiss franc, we welcome. She's not ideal, she has a lot of weaknesses. She exists. I'm sure there's going to be some kind of possible judicial breakdowns, the launch of such a moratorium. However, in this situation in which Croatian society is present today, where Croatian citizens are present, we believe that this measure should only be supported because of Croatian citizens not because of the Croatian government, not because of its inability, not because of the inability to solve the crisis or because we have recorded a drop in jobs in three years. Because of the simple fact that we are where we are and that Croatian citizens cannot pay these rates of credit, that the pressure is too high and that it is simply our social responsibility that we have the obligation to support such a measure as citizens and representatives of those same people in the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to limit the consumer credit law to a million kuna, let's say one unfortunate article of amendments and additions to the law is derrogated and abolished, we don't really see the most clear reason why it was still going on. We really don't see him, and we're not sure that measure is right. We can't, so the measure still has a social dimension. So, it has a social dimension, and by derogating the limit of one million kuna and accepting that we will indirectly take responsibility, even in the end if you want Croatian taxpayers in the event of some claims that eventually we may have to pay for the burden of both taxpayers and state budgets, the Croatian state will eventually have to pay for it in a year or two. We think that a million kuna really was one sufficient, reasonable measure of buying real estate, solving housing problems and the like. But we don't feel the need for us to engage at this moment of crisis and support a measure that bypasses that limit and no longer has a limit. It means that we take responsibility on behalf of Croatian taxpayers at the end, because the banks are already announcing the claim that we will cover the costs of the loan, as one's yacht, villa, apartment building and similar arrangements were agreed in Swiss francs or buying a penthouse for 500 thousand euros. And not to say that the amendment itself seems to be not in the best way complex and the question of responsibility is why is it still further involved now? And we really don't see it, we don't see it right there. Some even mentioned that there should be operational leasing and similar things involved. Well, I think people, so they were shopping, getting money on companies, buying luxury cars, buying yachts. Well, we're not going to go to extremes like that right now for those operating leasings. So we'll defend someone's luxury. So, I think that some measure, the obligation exists and it is somehow a socially fair and sustainable measure but not exactly in a way that the Croatian state takes obligations I say ultimately possible on the burden of taxpayers for someone's ultra luxury and penthouse. Therefore, that measure should be found. On the other hand, these days we are faced with a certain dissatisfaction that occurs with users of other credits, consumers of credits in euro and kunas and so on. Because the interest has grown, the wages have fallen, the euro has been slightly strengthened and the question is whether it will strengthen further. And that's just as justified. What this measure didn't bring, and we're actually sorry, that it didn't bring an opportunity for someone to get rid of that loan in Swiss francs. Because it's only possible to pay off the annuity per course of 6.39. So, any early payment or if anyone wants to get out of that debt slavery, sell that property and get rid of the loan it will have to actually do at a current current rate because only anuity will be able to pay at a rate of 6.39 kuna for 1 CHF. Which is actually not good because we don't allow people to get ripped out of debt slavery in some way, just to make it a little cheaper for them. I would also disagree with those who speak about the fact that now the banks will be able to make sure that both the Croatian government and the Croatian state can now be thoroughly accounted for for for having entered into this. Because the fact is also that the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament still have key in their hands that can lock up some of the other extra profits that banks today make on different fees. Therefore, we also have tools that we have not used before, which could also be used by these banks if they go to this extent to respond to them with the same measure. You know very well that banks and how many banks make profits on fees. Today much more than in loan wars, for example in Swiss francs. On interest, overruns on current accounts or on various forms of compensation, and there is certain that the Croatian State can reach out to some other tools in the talks or in the negotiations with banks. But what I would agree with all the speakers is that for all these talks, agreements or negotiations, there should be another partner who should be called the Croatian monetary authority or the CNB. And I think that in this Parliament, no matter where it comes from today or yesterday, no one had too good words for the CNB, for the Croatian monetary authority and for their work in previous years, or for the behaviour of the current governor of the CNB who has not shown that he is feeling or belonging to Croatia and that he feels responsible for Croatian monetary policy. I don't know if, maybe there's someone out there who thinks differently, but I think it's, at least I felt it as a heavy attitude for most of us about it. Therefore, as regards this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which abolishes the restriction under the Consumer Credit Act and this amount of 6.39 kuna will be applied to credit wars independently of their height, we think that it is not at all the most fortunate political measure, and that we are not saying that the amendment itself has been implemented in a desperate way in the law. And we don't see at the end what's really his goal. And when it comes to measure, the very measure of freezing for a year, given that it took speed and that now will be the time to continue to negotiate, in fact, we think that measure is good in itself. And in the end, I would actually invite the Proposer, although he's not going to do it, because that's why he came here to think again about this amendment, about his social purpose, about not acting socially or socially justly, that he was badly done and I would suggest that if there was any way that it would be best and most fortunate to pull him out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97335	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, Novi Val and the National Party of Reformists, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97336	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the shortest lines, I will explain our position on this region which opened this morning in the Croatian Parliament on this amendment and on the demands of some colleagues who were previous speakers, who referred to the need to actually protect the OPG through this model, and I will add Croatian craftsmen. What's this about? If the laws are passed and the measures that we have adopted in the club, and especially as the Reformist Party, are welcomed, to intervene and protect and create at the end and the impression and the atmosphere that finally the state is beginning to worry about the interest and survival of its citizens, then we must do things thoroughly and correctly without doing discrimination without forgetting any other anomalies that we have failed to correct in previous laws. What makes the OPGs and why Croatian craftsmen deserve to be in the definition of consumers in the definition of citizens? In order to do something that was too much and meaningful, if we look at this, if we look at this correctly, then we need to know that in Swiss francs we were not only buying apartments and apartments at sea and not only solving the existence or residential issue of certain young families or families in general, but also that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were realistically saying that as natural persons, they knew how to buy Mercedes and yachts and apartments at sea, and that at the same time Croatian farmers knew how to get loans for the breeding herd, for the agricultural machine, for the purchase of agricultural land, that Croatian crafts also received and raised loans, not only having a choice to invest in basic funds on which they did not only realize their existence to themselves and their families, they paid taxes to this country but also hired other citizens. And we missed out on this mandate by passing the Law on craftsmanship to solve a long-standing injustice in this society, which is that craftsmen guarantee their assets for their business as opposed to companies. For this reason, in the context of this solution, it is not fair, and it is highly unacceptable to leave craftsmen in the deleted space this time, not to apply this protective mechanism and to them who, for their primary asset and for their business for the loans they have raised for the work of ladies and gentlemen, not to the luxury that we have left these people unprotected and that they will, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on craft, guarantee their assets for unpaid loans in Swiss. We don't take measures because of the mere form, we bring measures that have essential value, which are just, which are useful and effective. I'm going to give an example of a craftsman, a builder who bought a combination machine, a working machine in Swiss came into a situation where he came into guarantee of his property. I will give an example of a Croatian fisherman who finally made a new number or restored an existing ship, raised a loan in Swiss guarantees his assets. He didn't buy a luxury apartment at sea, he didn't buy Mercedes for Swiss, he didn't buy a third apartment for Swiss people, he didn't run a real estate investment policy as the best family policy, he fought for naked survival. We have left these people with legal solutions in the deleted area so far. We've been doing a completely crazy differentiation between trades and companies. We've put you in a situation so in this country that you can do whatever you want in a company that you want and you don't have any consequences for your own property. But if you work with 10 fingers honestly, modestly, without sick ambitions in order to just ensure the existence of your family and your employees, and we left people in the deleted space and in the Law on crafts and today in this proposal. Let's start thinking about cocoa once, let's start being just in this society one time, take responsibility as Parliament, because it is not only our right but it is our obligation to correct the failures of the government whatever it is and whatever political option it represents. I seek on behalf of the National Party Reformist Club equal approach for craftsmen and Croatian peasants, because they deserve it because it is just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97337	Thank you, Your Honor, I'd just like to ask you not to knock on the pay phone because that sounds like Khrushchev is in the hall. I pray on behalf of the Club of Independent List Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97338	Following this move, Mr Baranovic, means for apartments to pass this law, not for economic activities. And I agree it just can't be fair. I agree that the problem is dominant apartments. Why? Because of the 60 thousand Croatian citizens who have loans in Swiss of the total amount of HRK 23.7 billion, the amount of these loans, $11.8 billion refers to apartments. So only 2 billion to some other activities. I am deeply convinced that at this stage the Croatian bank will not sue the legislator. They have no reason to be dissatisfied today. On the other hand, like we talked about here in the benches, if someone took 100,000 euros for the apartment 6 or 7 years ago, it was 750 thousand kuna, today it's 767 thousand kuna. If someone took 100,000 euros in Swiss then it was somewhere, pardon that 100,000 euros was 160 thousand Swiss. Today, these 160,000 Swiss are over 1.1 million kunas. So this amendment in that part absolutely does. Why? Is if someone wanted to buy an 80 square-square apartment in Zagreb five years ago, today they should have set aside about 160 thousand euros as well. It is clear that in these five or six years something has been paid off, and the de facto problem of Swiss does not appear since 2010. I agree that this law should include as Mr Baranovic and craftsmen and OPGs and all those who are not in the order of these consumer loans but of economic credits. We have to give everyone the same status. Why do these craftsmen, the O.P.G.s that, say, have only 2 billion of those 23.9 billion? But it's also a huge amount for them if they find themselves in such a situation that they now have to pay at the real Swiss rate of their loan wars. Because these people hired other people because they paid taxes, because they allocated funds for contributions. In one word we must be just, we must be fair to all. Same approach for everyone. Therefore, I do ask the Minister of Finance to offer the amendment in this form and just to meet here in an hour or two and to be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97339	Thank you very much. There are no more interested clubs to discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate on the amendment. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 19 votes against the accepted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. Please vote. ... You asked too late. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. The vote is over. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 1 with a abstention and 1 with a vote against the Law adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted. ... Now I give, I have your conclusions now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97340	I'm asking you to take a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for 15 minutes. When you run the session of the Stazic, my colleague, I'll track down, then you speak... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97341	Let's talk to the public and to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97342	I am asking you nicely for a break on behalf of the club, you have taken away our democratic right to present our proposal as the strongest political party. You have taken away our democratic right to propose a constructive solution to this problem. Because it's worth our conclusions now that you've passed the law and you knew well that we've put the law on the table to discuss our conclusions. But very interestingly your application of the Rules of Procedure is unfortunately and there I am honestly saying disappointed as in you, as a longtime colleague that you have different arches ?/... [[/Intruder: You're done)]] So I'm asking you to take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97343	I have not violated your democratic right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we have voted on the law and now we will vote on your conclusions. That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna stay until the Rules of Procedure changes. ... What were you looking for a break about? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] About your own conclusion? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, please. Please, nice. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes, together with the Croatian National Bank, in agreement with the business banks and the Franak Association, no later than 90 days, to define a permanent and sustainable solution for the Swiss francs, euro and other currencies, taking into account first and foremost the debtors with housing loans which result from the increase in the course and the constitutional equality of all citizens and financial interests of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining that the conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. 36 votes for the conclusion, with 4 abstentions, and 71 MPs voted against the conclusion. We have the following conclusion, also in line with the proposed HDZ Club: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take all legal measures, together with the Croatian National Bank and the relevant authorities of the state administration, from its own part, to prevent the illegal activities of foreign legal persons of Raiffeisen banks, Raiffeisen banks from the Raiffeisen Group on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who have entered into pawn rights on the property of Croatian citizens and to take all measures to protect Croatian citizens and to prevent the implementation of activities in real estate and operations and endangering the existence of credit debtors. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining that the conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. The vote was 46, abstentions 4 and against 62 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97344	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97345	I'm listening, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97346	In view of all the events I ask you to pause on behalf of the club for 15 minutes to take a stand on your further participation in both the vote and today's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97347	Okay. To take your stand, we'll give you a break, of course. Who else, I see a hand? Croatian Labourists, HDZ. I'll give you 13 hours and 10 minutes. ... At 13,10 [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 1:00 P.M. [[Thank you very much.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] The place is over. I'd like a representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Ivan Shucker to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97349	My colleagues and colleagues, after a brief discussion at the club, this reminds us of a football game where all the viewers at the stadium and on TV saw that he was naked with his hand, but the judge says no, the goal is regular. This happened today in the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ Club has been prevented from expressing its democratic right and stance on the law, although we were very active in the debate yesterday, proposing their proposals. We at the HDZ Club, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, whom we highly appreciate and respect, are sorry that you have put yourself in the service role of Prime Minister Milanovic. We regret that at times when it is clear to the entire Croatian public that the government has made one disastrous law simply so that one man can say that he has done something, you support it all together and you have made it impossible for the HDZ club to declare the law. And don't by any chance tell either of you or your party president that the HDZ Club was against this law. No, you didn't let us express our opinion. My colleagues and colleagues, I can understand that even though I cannot understand that you voted against a reasonable conclusion that offers a solution for loans in Swiss francs, but I cannot understand that you voted against another conclusion where violence against Croatian citizens, institutions that are not even registered in the Republic of Croatia, is present in Croatia. We only asked the state institutions to suspend the assets of Croatian citizens who were literally robbed with false documents. If you look at the law on those who verify signatures in the Republic of Croatia, they are public notebooks, then it is clear how they operate. Now the question is, who is, how and in what way could he verify it? This was the second conclusion, the second conclusion that we simply wanted state institutions to do their job and not allow anyone and send a clear message that Croatian citizens in Croatia could neither legally nor illegally rob. And what happens? You who swear by law, rightly so, vote against that conclusion. Yesterday in the debate there was, if there was anything unique and undivided, if there was an agreement between those who spoke in this House of Commons, then there was an agreement that, behold, fellow Stazic probably had his own Rules of Procedure, so he would take away my word. So if there was any agreement, there was an agreement on the need to reach some conclusion for these people. But very interestingly, the SDP club is against that and against that conclusion. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, is it really in our interest and are we here to help, fight for the interests of Croatian citizens or are we here to promote great leaders. Are we here to really look for solutions, not only for the present time but also for future time, or are we here to support something that someone has promised, and doesn't even know what he has promised. Because if he knew what he had promised then he would know that Article 3 defines something. However, colleagues and colleagues, I did not want to split, but if you look at this Article 11 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has changed the Consumer Loans Act, it speaks exclusively of interest and this Appendix 11/10 could not have been put in Article 11. So it could be added only after Article 11c of the new Article 12, which speaks of some course that the Government does not have the right to do, but does so according to the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97350	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97351	I don't know what you're doing to me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97352	Five minutes, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97353	But, well, here comes the goal again, but the judge says it's regular. Thank you very much. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97354	Dear colleague Shuker, your dissatisfaction with the vote in the Croatian Parliament may your dissatisfaction remain. The vote was held publicly, in front of the Croatian public in line with the views of each of the MPs and there is no lack of will in the vote. Secondly, respecting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is no service but a service to democratic standards within the Croatian Parliament. Thirdly, all your qualifications are given to Croatian citizens and I do not intend to correct those qualifications, let them remain and be recorded. Therefore, it is the right to vote in line with their political views, their views. And it is not correct to call anyone in the Croatian Parliament or to call for it regardless of the satisfaction that has been brought or dissatisfaction brought. I'm sure you at the club know there is no lack of will, there is no lack of will in the Croatian Parliament. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97355	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to comment on what I was saying on behalf of the club as chairman. No, you have no right. And the other thing is, you incorrectly commented on what I said because I didn't mention them in any way as far as Croatian citizens are concerned. I only mentioned concerns about their rights. But I'm saying, obviously, I'm sorry it happened today. But I also understand your position that you want to court your boss. [[President intruding: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97356	I understand your position and respect your position, but I understand both my position and my responsibility and on this basis I have the right to answer you from the President's desk because you called me personally. I have the right to do so, and anything else if you really think I don't have the right to explain and demand that the competent authority draw my attention to that. And now I call on the representative of the Croatian Labourers, the esteemed colleague Nancy Tyrelli to state the position of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97357	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I really have no intention of commenting on who he is for what or for what he raised his hand against, but I must admit that I am extremely confused after the SDP has not accepted such a conclusion. This is the twilight of the responsibility of parliamentary representatives and the indifference towards Croatian citizens. More than 20,000 Croatian citizens have loans they have concluded with Raiffeisen, with the Raiffeisen group members. I don't believe it, I really don't believe that none of you received any of these e-mails from any of these people in which he addressed him with all the documentation and proved how these Raiffeisen cooperatives are doing business and what is happening to our citizens in Croatia. I don't think any of you are watching documentary shows on our programs where we see what the fates of those people who are being thrown out on the street overnight, and who doesn't know how much longer they owe them, how much they owe them, and who actually threw them out. I don't believe that any of you know how long court proceedings are in our courts, and I don't believe that you don't know that such enforcement procedures are resolved immediately and that, in most cases, the buyers of these properties sold into invaluable property are always the same group of people. I don't believe you know who signed and certified the loans our citizens took, who runs their court disputes and who represents here in Croatia Raiffeisen cooperatives. This conclusion went only to do something and that the institutions in Croatia really show these citizens the good will to want to consider, to see what their problems are. And you're voting against it. Two years ago, an open letter was sent to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the State's Attorney's Office where we prayed for everyone to sit at the table and open the question of Raiffeisen cooperatives and these agonys that our people have in Croatia. I do not believe that you are not reading the newspaper and that you do not know how many suicides in Croatia have been due to these and similar loans and all that is happening. And you're voting against a conclusion today that requires nothing more than for institutions in Croatia to protect their Croatian citizens and finally give some kind of answer to these people, which is with their criminal charges, which is with thousands of criminal charges they filed at police stations, the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, and you don't want it. Today we have shown how much we care for the citizens and today we have shown this vote, I only hope that all those whose conclusion today is very well seen who is leading and who cares about who in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-22-0.u97358	My colleagues, you used five minutes to discuss with a different opinion, different views. ... He's got no right. [[You can't hear it.]] The vote is over and it will, please! To conduct a debate about how someone voted in the Croatian Parliament was never allowed and don't do that. Thank you very much. Let's keep voting on the points of the agenda.
