ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105773	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Independent Left-wing Club, I request a 10-minute break regarding the announcement of the Croatian government of savings in agencies To the Agency of State Agencys [[Intruder Josip Leko: Savings.]] [[Intruder Josip Leko: Savings.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105774	Savings, general term savings. Ivan Shuker, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105775	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since the acts defined by the deficit of the state budget have been adopted in this House of the High I am asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss in this House the emerging deficit situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105776	Dear colleague Shuker, what would you call it? Savings or deficits again? The deficit. Dear colleague representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105777	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I'm going to call my request break a polygraph. To make it easier, to destroy the dignity of the Puris workers. [[Intruder Josip Leko: Polygraph?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105778	It's a polygraph. It's a constituency polygraph. We'll be sued by HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105779	Then put on a lie detector. Maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105780	Abuse of rights or whatever you want working or whatever, testing. It's only testing in which function it's another thing. My colleague Caine, was that right? No, I don't. My friend Caine, did you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105781	And for all I know, I could do something about gasoline, cigarettes and Raiffeisen savings. New excise duty, here's gas, cigarettes as we smoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105782	Good fellow Cain, can you put it together in one word?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105783	Excise and Raiffeisen savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105784	I saw another hand. Who was the fifth? Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will return to that first topic proposed by my colleague Vuksic in connection with the break. You've defined it as saving. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Josip Leko: Savings.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105786	And then let's put you and your colleague Vuksic together because it's the same subject. Do you agree? You disagree. Fifth in a row. Okay. We won't vote on that. There's not enough of us. Okay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have 9.36 at 9.45, okay? Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, excise duty. That's what he called his job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105788	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Valipile pulled Puris out of bankruptcy, increased employment, further invested, increased traffic, stable business. But this whole lie detector thing, I agree with my predecessor, it's dilettaneous, maybe against the law. It's for every conviction. Instead of subjecting the polygraph to the one that Puris intended for Wolf, Hypo Kulterer, who can't be caught by those shift bosses expose the polygraph. I just can't figure it out and I absolutely condemn it. Let me say two sentences about excise duties. Today I read a title in Free Dalmatia. If this is a recovery, take us back to recession. About who turned that light on and they're right. Minister Maras says the gas won't pick up. Right, the gas didn't accumulate, only the prices of gasoline went wild. It's never happened that in four days from last Saturday until Tuesday, gasoline accumulated for 57 limes. Today, Eurosuper 95 is 10.14 to 10.15 kuna as at which gas station. Eurodizell is more expensive for 55 limes and is 9.37 to 9.40 limes. So we have the price of gasoline plus 20 now is not a new excise duty equal to the new price plus VAT. It's that 10.14 or how much it's already equal to failure. Vice President Grcic says it's a minimal increase, and Mr. Vrdoljak says he controls the merchant's margins. If you add cigarette excises all together, it's one big disaster. The public debt someone said earlier will be 100% of the gross social product next year, and now the question is, where is it going? However, if this state were to do its job, it could also settle on the basis of what Austrian lenders or banks were doing on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. They treated us like the conquistadors did in South America. They really treated us like one banana state for ten years. Here I am, talking about Raiffaisen now not the Hypo Bank one official note of the federal interior ministry all certified, translator Mirna Marotti. The big title above "Owning Credit in Croatia Official Note". On 15.7.2014 an informative meeting was held in the police envoy's office in Zagreb, Austria's not ours at the request of Master Speker from Raiffeisen. Raiffaisen Bank Group set up Speker about 6 weeks ago as chief co-ordinator and commissioner for Croatia. Its task consists of one side of the collection of still outstanding loans, and on the other hand from taking measures to prevent further under quotes, I have put out quotes, causing damage to the reputation of Raifaisen in Croatia. To this end, talks were held with the President's Office, the former president, the national bank, which is the CNB on New TV and an interview for the Austrian TV show. Spicer has experience with Croatian they say and among other things he worked for Hypo Leasing Styria etc. Now look at the facts. Currently they say, there are 2955 open loans from the Swiss Raiffaisen banks with Croatian borrowers. These banks have no license to work in Croatia at all, so they can appear here. They never got the consent of the Croatian National Bank. They are talking about an unpaid amount of 280m euros, saying how far behind they are, they say the average amount of the loan is 100,000 euros, which they must do, what they must do, how much property they have sold, resold, etc. and what measures they will take among other things. And who are they hiring? The PR company of Manjgur Kresimir stands here Macan. That's where the Genez is supposed to be added, etc. who works for this, who serves local politics, who we know who they work for, etc. For the purpose of the event lighting campaign, etc., etc. Because I'm running out of time. In one word, someone should put an end to that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105789	Thank you, dear fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105790	My colleagues and colleagues, we're starting work, but my colleague Cain is reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105791	I'd like to ask for a 10-minute break in front of the club. For what? So now we have this practice of raising excise duties on fuel and cigarettes, and we all know it's going to hit the citizens' pocket or company. Each tank will be more expensive in, say, 10 kuna. I'm proposing a model of how not to transfer the burden to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105792	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105793	If the rule of law comes to life, we can reach a billion, a billion and a half kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105794	We understand, and what you're proposing must be shaped in the form of a bill and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105795	By fighting crime to billions, billions and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105796	Okay, I'll give you a break, but you don't have to explain any further. What you're going to suggest is what you're going to propose in the form of a law. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105797	For the same reason that the law gave the Government the possibility to change the amount of excise duties by a regulation, the HDZ Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105798	I'm setting a break until 9.44. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:44 AM]] On behalf of the club, you've been looking for an independent representative of your colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105800	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, that's what we're talking about right now is raising excise duties on fuel, cigarettes. I said it's gonna hit our citizens' pockets a little while ago. Every tank will be up to 10 kuna. And what's interesting cigarettes should be collected for 60 to 90 lips. Based on this, it means 280 million kuna should be incomed from these 20 limes at the price of gasoline and around 150 million kuna by the end of 2015 and more expensive cigarettes. A total of 430 million kuna. Some of the money will also be taken clearly from public companies. But I personally think that we have one painless solution to how to get that money or how to get much more money. I'd look up to the Honorable gentlemen of the council for Angela Merkel, that great woman. You remember that famous CD based on which the Germans found out who not paying the tax transferred large amounts of money to Liechtenstein, means outside the European Union. Mrs. Merkel, this great woman has offered them an option, you will get amnesty if you pay the tax and if you apply yourself. And every once in a while, she played a few names, numbers, and bills. Right in Germany, they cheated the state without paying taxes. This is where they don't pay taxes and cheat or steal the state. Since 7 January, actually 7 January from Vienna 2015 this final report by the Austrian Federal Crime Office was sent to the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Department signed it neatly. So the office that was dealing with the HYPO bank. There's also the police. The damage caused by the HYPO bank on the Croatian soil is reportedly around 4 billion euros. What would I do, what do I suggest? To print that report, to translate that report and then sell it nicely. Why? Because I don't expect some Istrian, for example, media to publish it even though it's HYPO's queen in Istria. The HYPO bank only to say one sentence gave 500 thousand euros to solve the problem of writing Istrian journalists or newspapers. Today, I also claim that because of HYPO or Arenaturist, the state lawyer of the County of Istria, Mr Nuic, also flew away. Because of HYPO himself, one of HYPO's first people asked for it, Mr. Strydinger flew six journalists and one editor of a local list. And not to be too long, the ones that are mentioned and we have over 200 names, what I know, and that's a lot more that they've been getting money, they're going to find one or a half billion kuna in exchange for total amnesty. Not as much as they damaged Croatia, a billion, a billion and a half million kuna. They must have invested that money usefully, fertilized it, etc. I said the difference between a German model, a German case and a Croatian that they didn't rob a state there but they cheated the state without paying taxes and here both sides and third. I'm also suggesting it because I'm aware that our DORH will be nothing. Let's just look at this farce, say, with Bandic, there won't be anything from the police. I was convinced by the police, the police chiefs that they didn't have that report. I convinced them they did. And in the end, who got it? Police in Istria. After that, I said, boys, you're forgiven. We know how it works. But good. In this country, the artificial division is left, right. Division can be if you love this country, you don't love this country, you live honestly, you don't live fair, you work, you don't work, you can survive in this country at all, you can't or can't, and that's it. So let these few hundred names agree, let them create some association, let them create some d.d., let them share shares, they know very well in themselves how it worked and the state can relatively quickly get to that money. I know it's not a game because the media that took part in all of this won't talk about it, politics doesn't talk about it, capital will certainly shut up about it, and then we just have what we have. I said HYPO replaced the state's attorney in Istria when he said I'd call Kulterer to testify. He complained about Zagreb, the one from Istria then asked for it, and the minister operated all of it unconsciously on what it was really about. Here's a model of how to get a billion, a billion and a half kuna in a relatively short, painless time because of the DORH and the police, there won't be bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105801	Thank you, colleague Cain. You've talked about more things than you've announced, but well, we've already gotten used to it. A colleague, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105802	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm gonna stick to those topics on behalf of the HDZ Club that made us look for a break. So I cannot forget this assembly four months ago when we warned about what would happen in Croatia this year and when we were convinced that the deficit of the state budget was $12.5 billion, although then all economic analysts and even EUROSTAT said the deficit of the state budget was between 17 billion and 18 billion, and finally remember the first opinion of the European Commission in January, then it was said that the deficit of the 2015 state budget would be over 5% of GDP. What is this government decision yesterday? This government decision yesterday was a direct recognition, we failed to implement structural reforms, we failed to consolidate the expenditure side of the budget and because we failed to do so, you dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay. And it's not true that it's the amount. My colleagues and colleagues, we each year... a financial report from the Croatian highways and Croatian roads. We have singled out 60 Lips so far for HAC, 60 Lips for Croatian Roads and this is the amount of approximately 60 Lips between a billion 350 and a billion 400 million. If you divide it into 6 to come as much as 10 limes, then you'll see that for 10 limes, 230 million a year is collected, or if that's 20 limes, that's 460 million. Since excise duties enter the base for value added tax, you still need to add 25% of VAT and get to 575 million to the extent that only with the basis of the increase in excise duties will Croatian citizens pay for not implementing reforms. And that's the only truth. For not implementing the reforms. But it is not true when some ministers say fuel prices will not rise. It's simply not true, because 20 limes are not exactly negligible or if I tell us so to the Croatian oil company deru to take 570 million on the rebate he doesn't need, then the question is what are the regulatory agencies doing in the Republic of Croatia. Because if someone says that this 500 million doesn't mean anything to anyone, then the question is, who allowed extra profit to those who sold it to us more expensively. But rest assured, this will lead to public transport purchases, the purchase of transport services and a series of other purchases. Maybe with this decision, the government wants to help the CNB solve the deflation problem because you know that one of the basics and tasks of the CNB is to worry about price stability, so maybe the government wants to help in this way. So, to conclude slowly, this price increase, I'm not going to talk about tobacco at all because it's a story that has a cost on one side, and on the other hand it has a far higher cost for a state budget with a basis of treatment. So I'm a former smoker, I'm sorry smoker, but it's simply one of the measures that, therefore, should not be talked about. But the question to the government, what is the real deficit, is 12 as much as you speak or 18. If it's 12 like you're saying, then why did you raise taxes? So you yourself admitted that 18 billion is a deficit. What are the health debts at the moment and when will they be included in the government budget deficit? Third question to this government, are you aware of what you are leaving to the next government in 2016? Next year in 2016 there will be no second pillar of pension, there will be no 2 billion and 800 million kuna on the revenue side and it is directly one huge... in the closet that will hit the next government, but also one extremely irresponsible move of the existing government, not according to its political opponents who will take over the government next year but towards the Croatian people because ultimately their failure will pay again for Croatian citizens. And in the end, we took 40 of HAC's lip, yesterday someone has been greedy, and we're giving up monetization. My colleagues and colleagues, I told you, your 10 lip is 230 million, 40 lip is somewhere around 900 million. In two years we've abolished HAC's excise duties, we've taken a billion and 800 million kuna with the story of HAC going into monetization, and with that we're going to make investments in HZ. Did investments in HZ happen? No, they're not. Has there been increased maintenance of local roads along Croatian roads? No, and we got HAC 900 million. So one total failure, one total inability to implement reforms, and you Croatian citizens pay 20th tax increase in this government's mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u105803	Thank you. Now we're going to move to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107535	We continue in accordance with the established agenda - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013. The report was delivered by the Croatian Olympic Committee. You've received a proposal for a report. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The Croatian Olympic Committee has submitted an indication of the government's opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received a report from this working body of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zlatko Matesha, president of the HOO. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107536	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Here is the usual annual report, programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. As you can see, it refers to 2013, so with practically two years of delay. So I will simply remind you of the important things in this report that will go very briefly and certainly after your discussions there will be more questions. So, at the beginning you see what these are set and realized goals of HOO in 2013. They're all realized. Then there is a very important part about the structure, often in our public and even in the work of the professional public there is a misunderstanding about what the role of the HOO is. HOO is a roof association of Croatian sports, at the same time as a member of the International Olympic Committee so we have to say double citizenship. For example, our Statute must be approved by the International Olympic Committee. Our main activity is to serve 71 of the national alliances of 38 alliances of Olympic sports and 33 alliances of neo-Olympic sports. When I say service, I mean the organisation of international performances of our national selections in competitions and also development programs involving athletes and athletes of Croatia and coaches. So you see from the report that in 2013 our national selections took place 600 times in various international competitions, which means as you can see from page 4 that almost every day two of our national selections competed somewhere in the world. At the same time, sport is a very exact thing, which means that sports results are very easy and easy to show by seeing on page 5 that our athletes and athletes in that year won 333 medals and another 257 rankings between 4 and 8 places that Croatia certainly positions as one of the leading sports nations in Europe and I would say even in the world when considering the number of audiences and sports success. It's all measurable and it's very easy to check. What HoO does not deal with are domestic competitions, clubs, championships because it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of national sports alliances that are members of the International Sports Associations completely autonomous in the work of competition in Croatia. How huge a job it is, and HoO almost doesn't do anything for himself but does everything for these 71 national alliances, so we don't have any special programs, you see by which number of athletes and athletes were included in the development programs. No matter what path you have wrong perception you do not have any athletes and athletes who have achieved some relevant success in Croatia today without being in one, or are still in any of the development programs HOO. So you can easily see that in that year, the 263 athletes and athletes' report was in 32 sports and 75 coaches' development programs. All the trainers you know and who we know who contributed no doubt to the great development of Croatian sport and the results are in our programs except for the football team's menus because they have enough resources and they pay for it themselves. In addition to national U.S.O. alliances, he also takes care of the development of local sport. 21 The local sports community of all counties and the City of Zagreb is an integral part of the HOO. Special programmes exist to promote sports in war-related areas especially for Knin, especially for Vukovar and especially for Croatian islands. You can see from the report how those programs were implemented. We are particularly proud of the children's and youth sports program. Nearly 15,000 children were included in these programmes in 2013. The International Olympic Day, or Croatian Olympic Day, is traditionally celebrated on 10 September each year in the year to which the report covers more than 18,900 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. As for specific software projects, you can see them on page 12 and beyond. First of all, projects are dominated by the performances of our athletes and athletes at major international, multisport events, which are the Olympic games of summer and winter. You know these projects have been run on base for four years. The project "Rio" is under way, and at the time of this report was under way, Project "Soci" which ended with the performance of our Olympic Games in Sochi in early 2014. What is important to say is that all areas related to health care, vitaminisation, everything that is important to athletes are covered, that athletes or athletes can function normally. After those parts that apply, which will probably be less interesting to you regarding information and cooperation with other national Olympic committees, marketing activities and the like, the essential part that we can talk about is Olympic solidarity. The Olympic Solidarity is also funded from the International Olympic Committee and from the European Olympic Committee level, financing the work of our athletes and athletes. As for control mechanisms, of course, you will find that interesting. On page 41, you have a review of all the audits by the Supervisory Board, the internal audit we have for years, the commercial audits, the state audits and all the controls by the Ministry of Finance, budgetary surveillance, fiscal surveillance, and these were five at the time of the report. What I want to say very clearly, neither, I repeat any of these reports have established any illegal business of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Neither one of these reports found that the Croatian Olympic Committee spent budgets beyond what was provided for by law. All these budget reports are available to everyone and everyone can easily verify that. As for the financial part, you can see how Croatian sport is financed. The year we're talking about was achieved by gambling, and you need to know gambling is the only source of financing for Croatian top sport. 100 million 364 thousand 354 kunas have been realized, that's for 600 competitions, that's for 260 athletes, for 75 coaches, for vitalizations, for health care, for preparation, for all that belongs to them. To have a picture of the size of that amount, I can tell you that it's nine times less than the budget of Atletico Madrid that you're going to watch on TV tonight in a game with Real, nine times less than the budget of a third-in-a-kind Spanish club fighting in the Champions League. You yourself estimate whether it's a large amount. As far as the financial results for the year we're talking about, you can see that the lack of income is achieved by the accounting result of pages 48 of 350,496 kuna. We are an association going and running finances based on what is prescribed for associations, with the fact that I have to say that there is one problem that consists of having gambling funds accumulated by the end of the current year. So the current year ends, you only in January can know how much funds have been achieved in the past year and then there is a final reckoning. We have always claimed that this final calculation refers to the previous year, and that was enough about that dispute. I must say, the Ministry of Finance has been extremely correct in any such situation. I can also show you a letter from the esteemed representative of Linic, who is, for example, an example. for this year we're talking about in 2014 confirmed that what we said was actually true and it is true that if you have a fund that lasts until 31 December then you can only balance it in January next year. As far as other things are concerned, there is of course not to avoid this most popular sport TV thing that we often mention, we often mention it times. Things about sports TV are relatively simple, if that's how we want to look at it. So, the Republic of Croatia has issued a concession, the HOO has responded to that concession. The largest number of votes we got in the council, we got a concession, we started broadcasting, everything was good until two years later, the problems began to question whether it was like this, possibly or impossible. I must say that after two years of concessions being restored, I must say that in the meantime, the International Olympic Committee established its own television. And in order to have some impression of the International Olympic Committee's television, which was founded last year, the stake is $500 million and marriages-even, so feasiness will not show up until after 10 years. Now the real question is whether we should destroy the only sports channel that we have or are worth working together to make sure that Croatian sport has one window towards citizenship that people don't depend on just cable TV that they have to pay for, that Croatian sport can be seen for bad news, so to speak, because they already paid it through their taxes. It is something that is certainly part of the dispute that exists but in any case the whole process was absolutely legal and the concession was obtained by this country in a procedure that was completely transparent. What I'd like to tell you more is that you have an impression of two important things. One refers to the fact that unfortunately all TV rights for Croatian sport are owned by legal persons outside Croatia. So from home championships, football, basketball, handball, none of these rights are owned by legal persons of the Republic of Croatia. So we depend on others what we're going to and when we're going to watch. And the other thing is very important that this television is produced annually by more than 8,000 hours of sports. For example, Croatian broadcasters produce about 1000 hours of sport annually, meaning 8 times as much for an amount that is 6 times smaller than what the HRT newsroom spends. So this is what it is, and as far as the project is concerned, unfortunately, it has suffered enormous damage and a huge drop in income after some irresponsible statements by some people, but it will likely be the subject of some other procedures. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107537	Thank you, Your Honor, too. We have reports of replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107538	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. My replica is not about what the Olympic Committee is doing, it's more about criticism, we're discussing 2013 today, the Olympic Committee. And it doesn't go to your address, at least it goes to your address. It would be polite to do it in the second half of next year, so we did it in 2014. I know it was on the board at 10 months and what was waiting until 10 months ago was supposed to be 10 months ago, maybe before summer. We talked about it earlier, and the president said that we have other ways of talking about agencies, about gas, banks, labour rights, etc., but here I think we are doing very wrong in the Parliament. I don't see the point of us discussing 2013 now, we should discuss 2014 now. Of course we're going to discuss problems and we're going to talk about 2014 because it's almost impossible to skip that year that's behind us. And it's an old practice that's not a good practice and unfortunately continues and we're the most criticised ones who are looking at the beginning of the session break just to warn us of some problems in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107539	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Mateša, in the last year, the least talk about the successes of Croatian athletes and the most talk about irregularities, about the existence of sports television, about possible malversions. So I ask you once again in the interest of Croatian sport and the Croatian public to say whether there were irregularities, if I remembered correctly, there were 8 different supervisions on the Croatian Olympic Committee, were there irregularities and illegal and anti-static financing of sports television? And were sports alliances for the financing of sports television cut off for funding, and was it also impossible for a athlete to participate in sports competitions? Next, I ask you to explain whether the revenues from the state budget coming to the Croatian Olympic Committee have been realised and have they arrived on time? So we can't bring a flat rate that some athlete didn't go to the competition because it was denied by the Croatian Olympic Committee. Please make it clear which way and which is financed from the state budget, or games of chance. And whether there were irregularities in the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee. I know it's 2015, we're back in 2013, but this is important to clarify once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107541	Replication response, esteemed chairman of the board. And stay where you are, replicate from the scene. And when you answer as a proposal, then you'll go to the pay phone. The reply to the replica is the esteemed president of the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107542	Okay, sorry, I forgot the procedure a little bit, Mr. President, though, it's been a year. Dear MPs, I am responsible for saying that all of the above budget controls carried out in the Croatian Olympic Committee have not established any illegality in our business, nor have any proceedings ever been conducted in this regard at any time or now. Second, no athletes, no athletes, no national alliance was denied in anything. You see from the execution that all those who needed to get their resources and get it. Some have received more thanks to the Ministry of Finance interpretation and here present representative Linic, who is absolutely correct. So that's another thing. The third thing, nothing provided for by our funding programme was not implemented to the extent that the national alliances submitted their applications. Therefore, after that transfer and what was left of that year, everything was paid for so that there were no problems. Now that you ask me, I have to say that the last surveillance of the State Audit we had was unconditional, so much better than any other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107543	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107544	Thank you very much. Well, one part of you responded to what I wanted to replicate, but Mr. President of the Olympic Committee is very interesting that this is a post-lympic year, and that you submitted the report neatly by 30.4. that the government only gave its opinion in the 10th month. But what's most controversial in this country is that right now it's in fashion to attack the agencies. Here you have a report from state institutions that are responsible for the control and spending of budgets. So they give their opinion, and some people who question whether they are so professional give a flat-rate and political opinion in the government's opinion. However, what I wanted to tell you, as well as my colleagues in the Parliament, is very interesting to compare the government's opinion on the work of the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Government's opinion on the report on HRT's work. So HRT has a billion and 300 million tax revenues to say so, and the Croatian Olympic Committee has some 100 million of gambling. There's something else written on this page, although with nothing mentioned, and it's written all over here about sports television. So not about athletes, not about those for whom some went to take pictures in London when they were winning medals, but about something that could be discussed. But this project costs several hundred times less than public television. My colleagues and colleagues, look at the government's opinion on one and the other, so this is a pure political ponphlet with which it is clearly impacted on Croatian sport because if you want to help Croatian sport then bring the Sport Act, define the rules of financing and there is no right for any assistant minister or anyone else to do this besides the people who have been elected to thousands of congregations as delegates to a roof sports organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107545	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107546	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Matesha with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate all our athletes on the outstanding results that have been achieved all these years, but this debate and this opinion of the Government and irregularities that are indicated and led to the protection of these athletes and the future of Croatian sports. Now my colleagues have spoken before me, and Mr. Matesha has made it clear here, I will quote you, that there have been several controls, several inspections, several budget controls and all, and that you are responsibly claiming that none of the reports have established illegal and unintended funding or any other irregularities. However, here I have a report on the supervision of the operations of the Croatian Olympic Committee of the company HOO TV d.o.o. and the Croatian Olympic Academy, which was formed by the Ministry of Finance or targeted budgetary supervision. The document was from 3 November 2014, four months ago, we received it as members of the Sports Committee and now I will quote just a few things from that report. So this is the Ministry of Finance's report. The Croatian Olympic Committee is the core capital of the company HOO TV d.o.o. in the period from 1.1.2010 to 31.10.2013 increased four times and the share capital amounted to 7 million 782 thousand kuna. The supervisory entity did not, during the supervision or in its observations, provide evidence to support its claims from the observation that the investment in the company’s core capital had not been used by budgetary means, or did not demonstrate that the funds obtained from the state budget were used for regulatory purposes in accordance with the provisions of the law. This means that it's an arbitrary use against the law, and it also has point 2 but I'm not coming here anymore, I'm going to say that in my debate, that there's been a whole series of irregularities that are here and listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107547	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored President of the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107548	Your Honor, I'm still staying with what I said. The word illegality and the claim of illegality does not come from anything that you have said in your replica now, and by the way in the budget adopted by this high house in November 2013, and you are talking about 2014 and 2013, on page 735 says: in the commitments of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the point of continuing promotion of Croatian sport through the specialized sports channel SPTV, whose 100% owner is HOO. It's in a document this high house voted on. So, not only did we spend our resources, but we could spend our budgets, and we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107549	Do you have anything? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107550	Thank you very much. It is evident that ministers are changing, and the government's policy is the same. In fact, it's often about the review on the Olympic Committee, and I have to admit that I took a good look at your report, page 41, page 42, 43. Really detailed, but also all the audit reports and I have to admit that I haven't found any irregularities other than what your internal audit found 58 recommendations gave you and the good part you removed. So, I'd like Mr. Mateo to see that you're reading yourself so firmly and clearly whether in any report perhaps we haven't found any irregularities, because we, as Assembly representatives in the available reports, have not seen any irregularities in anywhere other than your internal recommendations that you've removed. It is therefore important to discuss both the results and sports in the Croatian Parliament, especially the future of Croatian sport. Looking at your reports, we can't find these irregularities, so those articles we read in the papers probably don't come out of anything but the whim of the prime minister probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107551	Replicate response, respected president of the Croatian Olympic Committee Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107552	Dear Representative, on page 42, we wrote what were the main objections of these supervisions that were listed from 1 to 5 and of course there are some times things that you must correct that are guilty, but that does not mean that they are illegal or that this is illegal spending of funds. We followed all the instructions we received from the Ministry of Finance and we did it entirely. Our internal audit controls day-to-day business and almost every session of the Council has a report on it and of course it finds that some things should be done differently and then professional services are obliged to do so and that is the whole truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107553	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107554	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Matesha, I believe that you too are saddened by the fact that politics have a negative effect on sport and, unfortunately, it makes only one bad relationship within sport. What I'm interested in today is and it's about the public needs program in sports. We've been listening to this on the board today, and we can't get a concrete answer from the government. As I understand it, you referred your public needs to the ministry. Right? And the ministry turned it down. But based on what this compared the ministry when no one published in reality what these public needs were in sport. The commission as far as I know it met only last week. It all grieves together. Unfortunately, and because here it is in the proposal for a new Sport Act, I don't know if someone contacted you at all about this law because you get the impression that this law is actually the law of the two political parties of the SDP and of the HNS. If we continue to play more sports, and neither will politics nor will anyone want to deal at all and there will be no positive politicians, unfortunately athletes who have celebrated Croatia will probably not even dare perform again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107555	Replicate response, respected president of the Croatian Olympic Committee Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107556	Dear MPs, I must conclude that this kind of high-involvement policy in sports is actually a newer date. Before they were governments of various political options and more or less I can say with full responsibility very correctly compared to sport and sport was left out of all forms of political, let's say opposition. I'll give you an example for when I came to the Olympic Committee was Mr. Racan's government. And I underline the gentleman because the Government of Mr. Racan, for example at the time, saved the Croatian Olympic Committee by the special means it gave to resuscitate the dubiosis that existed at that time. Therefore, the sport at the time was not an arena of political opposition. It's a little different today. Are we going to reach the causes of that, by that. I can say the following to your question. One of the main problems with Croatian sport is that we do not have a strategy of sport. We have not said anywhere in any document which is our strategic goals in Croatian sport. The Law on Sports, in force in Article 92 paragraph 5 of the Exclusion, states that within 90 days, excuse me, 9 months, it would not turn out to be a mistake. Within 9 months, a document called the National Programme of Sports or Strategy shall be adopted. It's been nine years and he's gone. And now you can't build a second-floor house when you don't have a foundation. I hope that no matter who or how they work that people of good will and knowledge will make that document and that Parliament will adopt it and then we will have one solid, starting basis for thinking about the Sports Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107557	Thank you very much, President. Please, does the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's an independent left-wing club. The manuscript says so I can't read it. Mladen Novak, Your Honor. Tell the microphone to keep it in writing for the history of the respected colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107558	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Frankly, the debate on this report is just in that sphere that has already been seen. Just to remind my colleagues that we're not going to do what we did last year, about what I think happened in April, that we won't have a discussion like last year for two days. It took two days for this debate, two days for it to be stretched out. I hope that we will not be harassing Croatian citizens and this time with such a marathon debate which has very little to do with the report itself and has very little to do with the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, it has the most to do with Sports Television, and it has more to do with what the colleague just pointed out with inter-party bickering and a desire for staffing. Now, since here, unfortunately, we cannot avoid it, there will be very little to say about the work of the HoO, about the report itself, most of it will be based on the part that is spoken about sports television and financial business, or on those additional 8 findings, and possibly on what colleagues of illegality point to. I, with all due respect, have to show my dissension with this morning's debate at the committee's session, and as strange as that sounds, I have no intention of courting anyone but I agree with my colleague, I think you've just pointed out that, I don't think it's appropriate for a parliamentary representative, no matter what you said, that's not a threat, but in the context I'm conditionally unsettled, but it's not correct to express such views as you said you'd sue someone if he said anything. I don't think that's appropriate. You later tried to ease that statement of yours, but the MPs for that very reason are here, to speak, to state their opinion, and if any of them consider that something is not good, he has the right to say it. The other thing is, I agree with my colleague Bubal here, I haven't seen anything illegal here. And here I will agree again with you that there have been these illegalities and then why haven't the official bodies whose primary job is it? We're talking about the 2013 Report. Therefore, time was sufficient to react but apparently did not want to. Now, as far as this sports television is concerned, I have to admit, with all due respect to you as men of the profession, but I really don't get it, it's commercial television and it should show some kind of positive results, but let's say some positive zero that we usually like to say. On the other hand, its basic task is to promote less attractive sports, which is already at odds with each other. You can't attract ratings in less attractive sports, attract some kind of capital and investors. I doubt it's compatible with each other. Today you mentioned the International Olympic Committee is launching the same television project, it has been planned for 10 years that they need it around. The board said about 7 years ago that sports television should be profiled and let's say it's profitable. You've turned a little harder at the board session, and even here, that because of us, attacking us, on sports television, we're bad. I think that usually critics go when something turns out to be wrong, it's not good, it's not good, or if you really want it to be bad because it hasn't fulfilled expectations, it hasn't fulfilled those basic purposes. I don't understand it with my best wishes. Maybe I'm wrong, I'd like someone to talk me out of it but I really don't understand pushing a project that's clearly not in my opinion or the theoretical chances of ever being zero, let alone something else. Who's in the interest of what? It's like when a doctor forbids you from any movement because of your health condition and you say, but the sport is healthy, I'm going to run. It doesn't work, you see you're not going, that it doesn't pass. Is that it's a good purpose, it's noble, it's all wonderful and wonderful, but it doesn't seem to accomplish what's scheduled and ultimately, that's why this sports television was founded. Now in your discussion you mentioned something that intrigued me just as little, you said HOO has fulfilled all its obligations to all national sports alliances, according to all athletes as planned and planned, we have fulfilled it. Probably so, but, which is why we have a situation that we haven't long seen in the preparation of Mrs. Sandra Perkovic, which is why only when the top athlete Mario Moženik won the gold medal a few days ago then we hear about the problems that one hall is actually dangerous, but it's not one that's mass halls in Croatia where these small sports are unattractive, are dangerous for those who participate there, who train. What was the situation with the taekwondo team that was asking if it would go? If all the financial commitments have been made, then it means we didn't plan well. Something in that story isn't too logical. The fact is that we are all proud when our athletes regardless of the Olympics or in some world competitions or even in foreign leagues when they achieve some results, when they promote the name of Croatia. But let's be honest with ourselves in general, every year, at an ever worse level, which is not weird since we've been in crisis for seven years, and then it's in some sense and the consequence of that, but in order for my understanding of that, in order to create a greater number of top-quality athletes at the world level, there has to be some kind of base, not to say some mass. Now, normally there must be a prerequisite. Since local self-government units are less and less likely to single out for this, they are mostly focused on organising sports for children and young people. I am afraid that soon we will remain truly on those individual examples that the type of Kostelic family, the type of Sandra Perkovic, who practically without help and their environments and sports alliances have achieved the highest results. No one's bothered to help those sports, those little sports and those people. To change this, changes in the sport law in general are needed. Now this may not be correct, but I will only remind you that when this government was formed, that is, when the government took its position that it was an announcement from the wetlands, from the adoption of a comprehensive law on sports that we have never seen, it never fully approached the solution to this problem, and it is constantly something, however, not the only topic where what has been announced remains. Which is why I don't know, but I can see that, let's just say the government's opinion is regularly coming up on this very thing about this is mine, these are ours, they're the other ones. And I have to look back on another subject that's mentioned and it's about these changes to the Sport Act, and it's mentioned today on the board, so a colleague asked a question about the payment of categorized athletes to the first and second categories. Since I wasn't 100% sure, but my memory somehow called me to last year's debate and it turned out I was right. This is a phonogram from last year's debate on this same subject, so she was in April last year to the same question Mr. Matesha answered two years ago that she also agrees with the speaker that it is not appropriate to have different levels of compensation depending on the wealth or poverty of the unit of local self-government or which is even worse not to receive them at all, and then last year he said that we proposed two years ago to our ministry that all categorized athletes of the first and second categories be financed from the state budget and that the same fees, have the same fees, no matter how much they were determined on... Now, that's kind of tied up in some way to the beginning when you president of the Parliament said you were proposing legal provisions, now we see that three years ago a legislative provision was proposed that would have changed something, so it wasn't accepted, and then, among other things, I'll mention that in August if I didn't cheat last year, I submitted a bill and it was 35 to 56 places that moved in the agenda and I'm not optimistic that I think it would ever come on the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for how the opposition can even participate in the creation of legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107559	Thank you, too. ... You may, Mr. President of the HoO, sign up as a proposing but after we've done the replicas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you sign up I'll write it down? Yes, it is. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107560	Dear fellow, at the very beginning of your debate, you said that it was actually the main thing about inter-party bickering and that you felt it on the board and that it was actually about staffing. Well, since I've been here in Parliament, it seems to me that everything we've been discussing is only about humanizing or ours or yours. Very few people are interested, many pains, which is why Mateo is head of the Olympic Committee because he's from another government. Was that how it was handled or defended for it? I'm not saying is Mr. Matesha a good president of the Olympic Committee or a bad president of the Olympic Defense, not at all talking about it or defending himself because he's ours and defending himself... it's agencies, it's all that way. We're not looking at the point. I agree completely with you here in the Parliament we are often thrown out by parliamentary representatives of threats, so Mr Cvitan threatens me in the Parliament but thank God the President of the Parliament intervened in time. They all come to threaten parliamentary deputies because they can be threatened by the MPs because who they are, who put them here in the first place. The issue of television, the main thing that the Kukuriku coalition will not admit is media strategy. We were supposed to bring in a media strategy and say, for example, we need sports TV. Sports TV will finance the state for that, that and that, Sports TV will cooperate with HRT, will do that and that, and the transfers will do Sports TV, we should bring something. What strategy do we have? Well, you can't even agree with Mr. Radman that he has to meet the obligations given to him by the Parliament, which is the height of his salary. He's making fun of us. So let him make fun of himself. And it's good when they're just threatening until they're beaten and arrested.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107561	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107562	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague isn't at all, and I believe that no one is surprised or surprised that it's always there. It's probably in the past on this side now, so it's just our reality and we can't get away from it. But by the time we got to that, I'd like my colleagues on this side to show consistency and to respond to what the board's conclusion has confirmed just what all clubs have said, let's say the HRT director's obligation to deliver the report. We all agreed on that. Today is the 60th item on the agenda. Does that mean that it won't even come to that, does that mean that you're here silently speaking for the public, for cameras what you know is true but we'll do something else silently, give it to him... do whatever you want, because this is exactly the man doing whatever he wants. All clubs have declared at the board's meeting that this has so far been unmarked by the fact that someone with such a humiliating attitude is heading towards the MPs, according to the parliament's decisions, according to the Parliament's conclusions. And now for you to choose what you're going to do about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107563	Honorable representative Sasa Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107564	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you said that you had found no evidence of irregularities or any non-transparent and illegal spending anywhere in the file, so I would clear up because of what was said before in previous replicas that I was talking about 2014 and that these things were not standing. We, as members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, have once again received a report on the control performed by the Ministry of Finance of HoO. This report states that on 2 December 2013, the State Attorney's Office requested targeted budgetary supervision for the period from 2010 to 2013. It was implemented at the request of the DORH on 28 July 2014 but for the period from 2010 to 2013. The HOO has made observations on the draft budget surveillance minutes in which irregularities have been identified. The Ministry of Finance did not respect the remarks but declared them unfounded, and on November 3, 2014 it drew up a report which we received as representatives, and the complete documentation referred to the further conduct of the DORH, so we are talking about surveillance for 2010 to 2013. This report, among other things, says, but I will discuss this in detail in my debate, so it says that the surveillance carried out except what I said, if it is not proven that the funds from the state budget were used for the prescribed purposes, as far as I understand Croatian, that means unintended. They weren't used in accordance with the provisions of the Sport Act, as far as I understand it means illegal. In addition, a detailed analysis of expenditure has identified many of the irregularities listed here. But I'm going to say one more time about it in my individual debate. And the Ministry did not accept the comments of the HoO because they were not supported by documentation that would affect the final conclusion of... supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107565	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107566	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, I said that the report, when I mentioned, was for 2013. Therefore, if there was an illegality, as you claim, there was plenty of space and time for the state institutions, including you to mention that they were conducting an investigation, that they were carrying out surveillance, but not that they found something illegal. But since you insist so much, only two ministries have received unconditional opinion, do you think it's the same against the law? Is 18 ministries working against the law and should the DORH then be launched against all, completely 18 members of the government? That comes from your argument, that's exactly it. It's a random waste of funds, and even then, which are withdrawn directly from the ATM, they're not purposefully spent on you, just because they're ours. Don't be like that, pal. You've made an argument now in a way, us and you. If it's ours, we can hand in someone else's pocket, but it's theirs. It's a crime. It's a crime if it really is. But then don't give yours up. No, mine are honest just because they're mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107567	Dear Representative Sima Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107568	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, you have touched the categorization of athletes, you have talked about the financing of Croatian sports, I have worked both in local, regional and state administration and every municipality in my budget is obliged to put an item for sport, for amateur sport and for youth. In my view, this should have been a practice according to certain rules adopted by the representative body. However, when it comes to athletes who are both young and pioneer, cadets, juniors, seniors, they are, and defend the color of Croatia's national team, they are all categorized athletes regardless of which category. So, they, from this categorization, come from living in one municipality, the city, that the municipality and the county, the city and the county come from that categorization, have certain financial obligations towards this categorized and mostly gifted athlete. That's how I see it. And this funding should not fall exclusively to one of the shoulders of the Croatian Olympic Committee if this athlete or team represents the Republic of Croatia regardless of what competition it is. But if we all agree together and the municipalities and the city and the county and the state budget and the Croatian Olympic Committee, of course, that our Croatian sport and amateuric might come into the air and function in these difficult times, especially when I say difficult thoughts about finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107569	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107570	I spoke about this categorization in the context of that discussion that was on the board and, among other things, in the context of the debate that was on this same topic last year on this same point. The fact is that a colleague mentioned on the board today, opened the question, and pointed to the problems that are happening and that are real which, in the end of the year, Mr. Mateša, in the debate last year, also made the same point in the answer I read. But by the way, I mentioned that, in the meantime, some circumstances have changed, so the funds to the local self-government units have been reduced. So then you have that let's say the disproportionateness of people living in some big environment that has financial opportunities, living in cities and municipalities that have far better budgets than some others. And now, today, there's a good example, two people in the same team, but one comes from one environment, the other from the other from the other, one makes a fee and gets it in full, the other comes from nothing. That's the problem. Which is why I emphasized it again, although it is there, there has been a lot of talk on the board, in some ways explained it, but precisely because of that promise that we will get a new Sport Act if you remember at the beginning. So it was, okay. We're going through it because of some solutions, and then one, two, three partial solutions we've introduced, the amendment of the Sport Act that has brought some partial solutions that haven't really solved the problem at all, even though in some cases they've brought some new injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107571	Dear representative Ana Comparić Devčić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107572	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Novak, I thank you for mentioning today's incident in your presentation, so I would like to call him on the Sports Committee, when Mr. Chop very inappropriately told parliamentary representatives at the very beginning of his presentation that if a word is used in this assembly today, it is illegal that the Croatian Olympic Committee will file criminal charges against Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I think it was absolutely inappropriate and that no one in this House could behave that way. As far as your presentation is concerned, you said, among other things, that the debate in 2012 as well as in 2013 is about sports television and staffing. I couldn't agree more with you. With the fact that I have to say that I am extremely unhappy that we here are only discussing sports television when it comes to the Croatian Olympic Committee report and that is what the problem is. So instead of engaging in sports, instead of dealing with the criteria in which money is allocated to individual sports, we deal exclusively with sports television. We are also on the board and last year and we keep repeating these categorized athletes, so the fact is that categorized athletes of the first and second categories fell exclusively to local self-government units and of course depends on where you live. If you live in a big city, you'll be compensated, if you live in a small environment, you'll be left without compensation. And I will stand by while I am here that it must go from the Croatian Olympic Committee and that the Sport Act must be changed in this direction because our athletes who make up one team regardless... in the Republic of Croatia, they must have the same resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107573	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107574	Now all I'm supposed to do is come to a conclusion, so you've agreed with me on everything. First, I thank you for your gratitude. Secondly, I wouldn't call it an incident, I think that it was a bit of a reckless gesture, and after all, the man was immediately easing his own, his own statement. We agreed on everything else more or less, i.e. we completely agreed. Unfortunately we will, we can't... that today all the participants in this debate will mainly devote their time to sports television, that is, the financial effects of that television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you that it would be more productive and more quality and useful for the citizens and those who are covered, primarily for those who are covered by this if we were to discuss today these fees that you have now mentioned. And I agree with the fact that the issue is once resolved uniquely for everyone through the Sport Act. But just because you're sitting where you're sitting I'm now appealing to you on behalf of all those who are covered by this law and who are experiencing certain injustices for it, do something because all of our opposition actions are coming down to the 60th place of the agenda and that continued 60th place, there's no progress, so you can expect that today-to-morrow you'll come to order. I thank the Prime Minister who invites us to submit proposals, legal solutions, anything else. We do it neatly and it comes neatly to wait. So much for that. But he has the ability to present that fact every day, come out with legal proposals, make some suggestions to make it better. When we give them about it, keep quiet about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107575	Thank you very much. Dear Zlatko Mateša, president of the Croatian Olympic Committee on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Mr. Mateo, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107576	Dear Representative Novak, so as far as our favorite theme of sports television is concerned, she's been working for 4 years right now. According to the fissibility study she could and would be zero what you say in 2017. In view of all this that is happening around it, she never had any real chance, because if you treat it like a drug cartel in all possible media performances, then it comes to what happened to them and that in 2 months your advertising income falls by 5 million kuna, and that's half of what they need for annual broadcasting. And in those 4 years, this TV has made 359 domestic transfers, 46 domestic indirect transmissions so delayed, 910 other transmissions, covered 111 so all sports that exist in the Croatian nomenclature plus 1306 emissions from external productions. Why do I say that? Because the HRT Explicate Strategy says that HRT will not have a specialized sports channel. You can very easily check that with the Honorable Director Radman. Therefore, if we destroy this Sports Television Croatia will not have any national free sports channel that broadcasts for 24 hours. It's up to us now, we can do whatever we want. As far as categorization is concerned, I fully agree with the honourable representative and with you, we have been proposing this for the last three years that categorization is equal for everyone and that it is paid out of the state budget, whether it goes through Olympic or not. As for the rest, you must know that, I said that we are funding through the development programmes of over 260 athletes and athletes and their scholarships, and it is not true that our top athletes are only or most of the product of family efforts, but if we talk about it very seriously, it is a few million euros during their careers financed by this country through various forms of funding for their performances, actions, preparation and so forth. As for what we mentioned to Mr. Pobnik, he's in our programs somewhere I've been thinking for about five years and he's funded as a top athlete. The question of the hall, sports infrastructure has nothing to do with the Croatian Olympic Committee, and we can intervene in any way. As for the aforementioned taeqwondo or karate or someone else, it never happened that someone had gone to a show somewhere. And as for Mrs. Perkovic, she is also in our programmes she is top of the program, so the highest possible sports programme in the Croatian Olympic Committee and she has received from us everything that is foreseen by this programme increased by 10 or 15%. Thank you very much. Mr. President, please just one more word. I wasn't on the board, so I apologize, as far as the board is concerned, I apologize if there were any inappropriate statements from my associates, that would not be our goal, and we respect this high house and its committees. And what we really need to understand is that all these public inscriptions create an impression that is very negative for the business of a company and that we really have this problem because it is simply drawn to business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107577	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Now we have six replicas again. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107578	Thank you very much. Well, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, I'll take the order you're in. Sports TV, you said advertisers retreat and then we get a counter reaction to Al Jazeera news. Now on Sports TV, we watch Al Jazeera news. I don't mind that news, but believe me, it doesn't seem to me like it's on the trail of what that television is about. And someone who's eager to watch some kind of sports program, I doubt it's something he'd like to look at. Funding top athletes, I have to, you obviously didn't listen to me, I said if it continues like this that in the future, the financing of top athletes will only come to mind where families can jump in, that is, those individual examples that will fight for it themselves. As far as infrastructure financing is concerned, I agree with you here, but this is the only place and the only opportunity to warn us about the situation in sports, not only the HOO, but you can see that we are also talking about the Sport Act but also the state of infrastructure, sports infrastructure. I'm sorry, but now it turns out someone's giving it to you. It is not deliberate, but it is an opportunity to say it, to warn the Croatian public that the problem is evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107579	The reply to the replica, the esteemed chairman of the committee Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107580	President, you've already confused me with where I'm going and where I'm not going. The esteemed representative in the concession contract that we received twice, so first and renewed for the television program you have the rule that 70% of the program must be sports, 30% of the program on a daily basis can be someone else. Of course, our co-operation pilot project with Al-jazeer is a function of financial stabilisation of that television. If circumstances were different then our decisions might be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107581	I'd say a logical sports location, when you speak for yourself a replica, then you're in that position, when you speak for the promoter, then you're in the lead. Thank you very much. A fellow representative of Sasa Djujic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107582	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mateš, you said that sports television has been in trouble for the past year, two days. If we look at only now on the financial side economically, the company HOO TV d.o.o. Since its start-up day, sports television has been operating at a loss, and this loss for 2010 amounts to 70 thousand kuna, for 2011 amounts to 15 million kuna, for 2012, amounts to 22 million kuna, for 2013, amounts to 21 million kuna and 700 thousand kuna. It's a 60 million kuna loss today, and I don't even mention these loans that have been raised. You said that because of these statements in the media, marketing revenues have dropped by 5,000 kuna and that's enough for half a year of broadcasting. ... Five million, sorry! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five million kunas and that's enough for half a year of broadcasting. Now I'm curious if you had income in 2013 of 5 million and 416 thousand and this year your income fell by 5 million, which means your income is 0 this year. Because you have the data I'm looking at. I'm not talking about indifference. And to say that sports television is a company that doesn't pay its workers a year's wages, that is irresponsibly managed by its administration, that we have financial losses for four years, or five years in a row since the first day, and let's say from 2011 to today there are twice the number of employees on sports television from 17 to 31, means almost 100%, that wages have been constantly growing in that society, that the average salary in sports television today is 8200 kuna, which is far above the Croatian average, and given the loss of results, I don't think it's exactly the right policy of that company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107583	Thank you, too. Here you go, President Mathesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107584	Your Honor, how am I supposed to explain to you in the first place how to respond to what you've just said? There are 12 people working on that television, and their total monthly salary fund is not even 100 thousand kuna. I'd like to ask you nicely because this, I see this all the time, I've been asking you to go on sports television with me to show you all the documents, to show you all the reports, to show you the people who've been working that program for 24 hours. I just don't know if it would be worth it if I were to comment again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107585	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107586	Dear Mr. Matesha, you just said that there are 12 people working on sports television. I've worked and set up on many and national television but I'm also local television, on that local TV was working at one point when we had a good audience of 120 people. With 12 people, it's impossible to do the program that you want to do. This can be, for example, music television that has a specific way of working. All those who understand themselves in television and all those 5 million figures are too modest figures. The basic question is do we need that TV or do we not need that TV? That needs to be resolved. You should bring it in if you don't need an argument, which is why you don't need an argument. This should include HRT. I'm sure someone cares, you said they treated you like a drug cartel, that TV. Someone cares about destroying something, and without arguments to say it because the easiest thing to do is to yell at someone, you're a thief without any argument. And if they are thieves, then it's even bigger thieves who don't chase thieves. So what's the problem? If there's an irregularity in the work it means illegal, there's no irregularity there. What's wrong with that? What wrong did they put from left to right? No, then it means illegal business. And if they're doing illegal business, then they need to be chased by the DORH. And if DORH is after them, then we need to open an investigation. But if DORH did his job, half the ministers would no longer be ministers but elsewhere. Only one of them's been removed for that. It's all upside down. Therefore, let's not talk about Croatia, sports television is an unwanted child, and the unwanted child is probably founded by those who should not have founded it. On the other hand, people who work on sports television must realize that no one will enter a restaurant where no one eats food. There's not a single major sport on sports television, there's not a single major event. Is that possible to kill? It's possible, if he's agreed, everything can be done just a question, we don't already know what year we're discussing sports television and we haven't determined whether we want that television or not? If we don't want to cancel it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107587	Thank you. You don't want to answer? Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107588	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said in your first speech that you had the unconditional opinion of the 2010 revision, which is precisely the unconditional opinion of the review, that the credit card users said under the Regulation on the terms of use of the car, mobile phones, cards, etc. they were obliged to submit to accounting within 8 days of the occurrence of their cost accounts, however, HOO did not, not only did he not ask but he wrote off those claims. It's very interesting in the state review and as the criteria change, obviously no one has answered on this point, I hope that these things don't happen today. So it's a state audit that clearly states for 2010 that you've written off all the claims without having to justify the funds. Secondly, it is quite clear about sports television that this high home will be discussed because it is a matter of finance, debt, tomorrow it can also cost the Olympic Committee, or the budget, in the translation of athletes. The question as to whether this project is good or against should be shut down? Is there any other kind of sports television established by the Olympic committees in our nearby countries that we're not going to Asia, Africa or I don't know where and whether math shows that we can go through it? So, television commercially, it's sporting but it's commercial, it has its mathematics, it has its flexibility, from sponsors, from founders etc. And it's quite clear whether there's a view, whether there's a program of 5, 12 or 35 employees that's less important, it's important at this point whether it serves its purpose, whether it can be financially covered, whether it's crucial and whether it's going to burden all of us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107589	Thank you. Next replica Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Matesha or Mr. Matesha to you, indeed, no one and the entire CHO can dispute your business decision when you decided to be the owner and founder of one sports television as a hoo. The fact is that since 2010 this television has been in trouble and in losses since its draft. Now a key question is being raised, as counterpart Gjurkovic said, whether to go with this project further or at some point say that we can't go any further because the losses are such because the problems are such that the project is simply not profitable. Now all of us here together because we simply have to make that decision, or you should make that decision and we all suggest that we shut down Sports TV. I think that this project went in the best way, and I really don't think that some sports have a place that they deserve on our commercial televisions or on our HRT, but it's obviously our law of supply and demand or demand and supply. So what brings money shows you on TV, what no one brings money for it is not interested in or on television programs. What's the problem with your television is that you only have reruns, reruns, replays and only reruns and that this ratings is very questionable and I'd like to have that information about how much that ratings of sports television is, do you have that information maybe? Because when I turn it around it's just reruns of some HNL, and that's how three times that same one is rephrase, and then there's news of Al Jazeera, I mean, look, I really think your idea was good, but the realisation of that project isn't and that it's actually a failed project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107591	Thank you. Do you want to respond? Here you go, Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107592	It's hard to really discuss a project like this that just for reasons that I wouldn't want to elaborate on right now because it's just going to extend the debate has become a project where we're going to deal with some policies and some people. Why do I say that? So in every project that has any economic forecast, do you have some time where it is expected to become profitable. If this is for the television of the International Olympic Committee for 10 years, if this television was intended to be by 2017, it would be fair at least if she had had had the chance and had the chance to experience that deadline since 2017 before many people had done great damage to the project. And that's how it is, and I think things aren't going to change in that sense. As far as what's more important to the distinguished MPs, you're wrong about these transfers. I read you what number of transmissions were direct. We, along with HRT, passed on the London Olympics. With Germany, Croatia was the only country that directly transmitted all Olympic sports, all competitions from London. You have direct transmissions of HNL every week. Sports television is the largest number of matches, so Croatia's largest number of football matches has passed on. And you have a whole series of other sports competitions that may be less attractive. So it's not exactly like that. Of course it could be better. And you know why it can't be better? Because all rights for Croatian sport are owned by legal persons outside Croatia. Now, that's the real question, but nobody wants to talk about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107593	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matesha, I'd like a project that's still about to fall apart. We know that the Games of the Island have long gone and were part of the Olympic Committee which is part and co-financed, there are a few years now that the Olympic Committee has raised its hands from these games, so the municipalities and the town of Korčula this year will certainly not participate because the Municipality of Blato has given negatively, Vela Luka also, and I think the city of Korčula is giving up because they have no support for the last 4.5 years of the Olympic Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107595	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107596	The island's games are one competition that we really, as the distinguished representative says, have actively participated in its creation, and we also encouraged the island of Korčula to participate in them. Unfortunately, these games have big problems, not because of us, but because of the organizers and the inability to close the financial structure, I think their fate is very, very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107597	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the club Independent Representatives Grubisic, Kajin co-worker Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107598	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome and thank you. I welcome President Zlatko Matešu with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Listening to Mr Mateše's careful presentation on the one hand, and on the other hand reading a meeting of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports signed by the esteemed representative Darko Milinovic, with a recommendation not to accept the programming and financial report of the HOO for 2013. In this situation where he is a representative of the Helsinki Committee, there is much to be said that he spoke convincingly about the regularity of the work of the Helsinki Committee, with this conclusion of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, it seems that they were doing very different thinking options. Therefore, parliamentary representatives are in doubt whether to accept Mr Matesha's report or the recommendation of the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I think we should listen after this debate today, where it points to certain shortcomings that this programme should be implemented for 2013. The Helsinki Committee rejects and doesn't give him confidence. But what I would point out today, as well as this area of work, family, youth, and sport, obviously, is that we are in the middle of reality. The family is becoming less and less of a bearer of life, more of a corpse with the dead than of accepting young people into life. That's a big problem. Yesterday, in talks with the president of the Republic, she put Croatia's demographic situation as the main problem. Clearly, the Helsinki Committee has no connection or responsibility with the question of family and marriage, but it has no certainty for the behaviour of young people who are warmed up to certain sports and who bring unrest, dissatisfaction at sports resorts, more battlefields than playgrounds, and that this should be taken into account. We have popularized sport because we have entered the world orbit through it, but it is a question of whether one state can be built on such foundations where young people will judge the holders of certain responsibilities in Croatian sport, or whether a serious legislative programme should be developed that would go through the work of the Croatian Parliament, which is what I keep stressing, Croatia needs a long-term strategic development programme in all sectors, as well as in the sports, family and youth behaviour sector. So much for opening remarks, and they will continue on this same subject Mr. Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107599	Honorable Vice President, Mr. President Hoo, MPs. Yeah, I didn't know it was here, but it's not like I've heard for the first time that someone in the Parliament is being told that they're being threatened by lawyers. Personally, I am saddened by some statements about this speaker, not once, and perhaps spoken for by this speaker as the only representative not for slander, not for insult, not for damages. On the other hand, I think that this speaker must really be the Holy Grail of freedom of step forward, speech, thinking, performing etc. Of course, you shouldn't call for hate, but I guess everything else should be allowed. Nowhere in the world can advocates be sanctioned for a pay phone in the Assembly. Except in Croatia. Not for slander, not for insult, but for damages, which is sometimes worse for someone to sue you for slander or insult. What's certainly good is that Mr. Matesha fenced himself if that's what it was. It is clear that this opinion should be quoted from the Government, which has all been called upon where it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that it is unacceptable and financially harmful to such loans, etc., in total amounting to more than 3 million kuna, according to the information provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, to convert it into the core capital of that company. It's about 59.7 million kuna losses, etc., etc. Now whether we go into bankruptcy or also open like this to see if we can track these programs exclusively through MAX TV, by paying normally to the same ones, we know how much compensation or we're going to be for free television. Many of us will say that we should perhaps have an understanding not for these dubiosises, not for business but for one such project that should be strengthened in some different ways. The president of the Olympic Committee among other things, Mr. Mateša said that sports television, meaning with those 12 employees, is producing, if I have written myself well eight times as much of this programme or produced eight times as many programs, sports programs from Croatian Radio. Certainly not eight, but I guess 80 times the price. Among other things, if there wasn't this sports television, all these little sports wouldn't have just been followed. When I see how much it stands out in certain environments not for sport but for the PR, then for the media, I really still stand at the point that one such content is significantly different financially redefined. I also dare to say that the results of Croatian athletes working through the Croatian Olympic Committee are at least impressive. I dare even say that the cheapest promotion of the Republic of Croatia is precisely through these medals or performances of Croatian teams or as it is now liked to say the species. I dare also say that the cheapest medal is the one to be fought for, or fought by Croatian athletes. Each medal is an enormous marketing success of Croatia. When the Republic of Croatia or when the Croatian football team won third place in Paris, it was not that it was a world miracle but just then it started talking about the Republic of Croatia. I was told by the great Istrian bishop Mr. Bogetić, then he seemed to me in '98. years on a mission in Thailand or Taiwan, mostly out there, says he couldn't possibly explain to his hosts where he came from until Chiro, Prosineski, Shuker, Boban, won third place, etc. He says, the second day I woke up, the whole island was in gambling uniforms. It's a simple sport, it's football first of all in that sport. And that should be appreciated or recognized. This report, among other things on page 4, discusses posts from 1st to 3rd in international competitions. So, among other things here, we are said to have won 43 medals, gold medals, silver 54, bronze 51, a total of 148. Yes, we won 12 gold medals at the World Cup, 10 silver and 17 bronze medals, a total of 39. At European championships or championships of 35 gold, 34 silver, 37 bronze, a total of 106 medals. On the European Cup of 16 gold, 13 silver, 11 bronze, a total of 40 or 333 medals were won. It is certainly an impressive result, a success, but I will not only tell those young men and girls, their families, coaches, but also their home clubs and thus the Croatian Olympic Committee. In so many ways, I think that this engagement not only of Mr. Matesha, but all of them should be supported in future and in some way recognized. I agree with all those who spoke before that more should be followed by young people because they are in some way, or young adults, because they are in some way our future. If the burden in this bankrupt Croatia, the bankrupt families only fall on parents or the equally bankrupt local self-government, we will lose the greatest talents. We heard that the gross revenue generated by the Croatian Olympic Committee is simply from these games of chance. Secondly, when we talk about field financing, yes, almost every small village, village, municipality, today came on the occasion that not everyone but almost every municipality can praise a school hall and that is certainly good. The local self-government is and should be emphasized, developed that infrastructure. It might have been better if the money had been directed, I speak hypothetically now, in the workplaces so it built a later infrastructure and this type, but we simply have to admit that compared to Croatia 10 years ago it is the same, means halls and similar, terrains, today in Croatia are at a much higher level. On page 21 of this report there are programmes for athletes and then a support programme for athletes of younger age categories, which is program 1, the program contributes to the development and improvement of the results of athletes of younger age categories whose natural characteristics and initial results indicate the possibility of achieving results in a particular sport. During 2013 46 users from 19 sports or sports, 21 athletes, 25 athletes participated in program 1. I think it's a little bit so that these simply numbers should be increased in some way. But we understand each other, gentlemen, all of this simply costs and needs to find adequate resources that the Croatian Olympic Committee, that sport can in some way work, exist. Other programmes are individual programmes of special youth care. There are 126 athletes here, so we have an individual program of special care for young people, team sports, and it's also listed these data, and I'm not counting any further. As for the financial report, I don't have time, it's given on page 44 but it has a middle, there are counties that, for example, 30 to 50 million kunas spend only on local festivals. What would and how many medals would have been achieved in the Republic of Croatia if these young athletes had been dispositioned, it does not matter whether through the Croatian Olympic Committee or another 30 to 50 million kuna. I personally consider it simply an effort that has been made enormous. The fact is that they are sitting on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee tossing sports television. It may be good to connect HRT and her more intensively, but at any cost we must preserve one sports channel, whether through this form or through HRT and relevant, but this should simply be preserved. And just one sentence, I'm glad Mr. Matesha mentioned Mrs. Perkovic. To judge someone for sending a car to Perkovic in Medulin who shouldn't even drive me so something wouldn't happen to her. Because if we lose one such talent, such a athlete then loses the whole country, something is simply bordering on believe or not. [[Invader Batinić: Time of fellow Cain, bring the debate to an end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107600	We have two replicas. Ada Damian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107601	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Cain, I will agree with the information that you have presented because they are an integral part of this report and I will join you as well as congratulations to all our Olympic medal bearers, but I will not agree with you to exactly commend the report because we discussed this report in the same way last year and we had the same debate. And I don't know if you remember, last year I also spoke to Mr. Matesha in a sports spirit that it's not important to participate and listen to the debates, but that it's important to learn something from these discussions. Last year, however, I see that nothing has changed much. In fact, the problems that are just being continued, starting with Sports TV, from funding sports television to financing our athletes. Congratulations, I repeat, to all our Olympics who, in these difficult times, can only work, work, and give up perhaps the greatest part of their families can achieve these good results. And again to Mr. Matesha not to be this mere debate again, but to learn something from one of our discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107602	Thank you, too. My colleague Cain's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107603	I only ask myself what we are as a Parliament, not as a Parliament, but first of all the Croatian Government has made the situation of sports television or the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee change. I personally think it is good that the Government, that the Parliament has not interfered too much in the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee or rather in Croatian sport, because I fear the results would be worse and certainly no better. Who is responsible for the conduct of the Croatian Olympic Committee? Well, first of all, the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, we can also conclude that some responsibility could be mutual. Now, that's another question, when we talk about HRT there stealing or are simply market conditions such that the question of whether that television can survive. Someone mentioned, it seems to me Mr. Matesha, that there are 12 people working there, and of those 12 people produce 8 times more sports programs than what makes HRT where I'm sure it's only in the sports program that maybe several hundred people do. You may need to connect that television to HRT, but in any case one channel intended for sport should be preserved in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107604	Thank you. Davor's Mlakar replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107605	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kajin, I listened carefully to the presentation on behalf of your club of independent representatives and, if I understand correctly, my colleague Grubisic said that this report was not to be accepted by the Croatian Olympic Committee, although it was a bit of a charm between the Croatian Olympic and Croatian Helsinki Committee. I understand from your presentation that your club would accept this report. And that's just talking about this subject as a sequel to what we got in the report. All relevant services which controlled the work of the PDO have not found any objections which would be valid as an objection to their work. These are services, among other things, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then the Government suggests that the Parliament should not accept this report. So, all services believe that the situation is good and that everything is fine, the government suggests that the report is not accepted, and then the members of the same club in the Croatian Parliament are also manifested. And that no one but some unconfirmed suspicions has made but not one argument against this report and an argument that would not require this report to be accepted. So, I'd like to hear from you, too, because I don't want to conclude on your behalf in front of your club someone said that the report should not be accepted, and in your performance, I realized that you advocated that the Olympic Committee report be accepted. You don't need to answer me, but I just wanted to use it as a picture to see that based on the documents we always make the wrong conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107606	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107607	And listen, Mr. Mlakar, it's freedom, we're Democrats, we're not autocracies, we're not a HDZ club or a SDP club. Humanists may not be, as Don Grubisic would say, but we are free anyway. And that's the quality of this independent club run by Don Grubisic, that someone can vote for, that he is free in his performance and that someone can have a different opinion. I don't see where that's just a problem? I think it is the quality of this club and that it could be the quality and work of the Croatian Parliament. And not simply to shake hands and listen to what someone will simply tell us, tell us, and whom we will simply follow. I'm not bound by the government's position, I'm not bound by the committee's position, but I am bound by the position of my own conscience. That's how I work, and that's how I'm gonna behave in the future. Whether it's good or bad, someone else can judge it, but no one's going to tell me not to say what I believe in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107608	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and reformer Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107609	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Matesha, representatives of the Olympic Committee, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists a few words about this report. I'll probably be shorter than the previous speakers because what they've said doesn't need to be repeated or repeated every time. We are already at the end of the 4th month of 2015 and we are discussing the Financial and Programme Report of the HOO for 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, we've led the matter to absurdity. Which is most tragic not only generally led to absurdities in this society but we have led to absurdities and what should be the cleanest segment in the functioning of a society, which is the world of sport. During this morning's debate, the thesis and opinions about how many medals we won, how successful we are in sports. Whether this is the result of individual efforts or family efforts, or is the result of the support of the HoO, sports alliances. We believe that the success of sports in Croatia can be measured by winning medals. Error at the beginning. For me personally as a man and as a parliamentary representative, the success of the sport and the system that defines him and which gives him frameworks for work is how many young people we have motivated and allowed them to deal with sports, how many young people we have torn from the street, how many young people have not become drug addicts, gamblers or alcoholics, or people who are inappropriate and legally unacceptable. This is much more important to me than whether, with all due respect and my cheerleading affections, Ivica came to slalom 5 or 7 of this race or won a bronze or silver medal. The moment the sports system in Croatia is clean, then we can say that as a society and as an institution of society, we have reached our goal. What is the reality of Croatian sport today is that Croatian sport has become the scene of the lowest political bickerings, the lowest passions, that in stadiums we have absolutely unacceptable incidents that discredit us as a society and as a country, that stadiums are the venues of action that conflict with the basic values embedded in the Croatian Constitution. What happens to us is that various sports alliances, various sports clubs have experienced fiasco financial, organisational, moral, ethical, professional and each other. It's a real picture of a system of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Olympic Committee is an institution that has its significance in Croatian sport. In HoO, as volunteers, many worthy athletes of this country work and act. As an institution should be absolutely clean, unsuspecting with full authority precisely to act as a roof house of Croatian sport on all sports alliances and on Croatian sport at all. What we have today, today I say we have what is absurd for the Croatian Parliament, what the Croatian Parliament must not allow, regardless of who is in this story and in this dispute which is imposed through this debate right or guilty Croatian Parliament cannot allow itself to discuss the state and the work of the roof house of Croatian sport for 2013 now, we should have discussed this long ago. And in an orderly system, how many irregularities are being debated is spotless and we are not in the Croatian Parliament, but also in the relevant institutions. In front of us is the opinion between the Government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia: "It proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the programme and financial report of the HOO for 2013. a year." and then, under the reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that detailed insight into the HoO report set up unintended spending of funds, contrary to the Law on Sports and the Statute of the HoO, and this is for the financing of the company Croatian Olympic Committee TV d.o.o. sports television in the text below, sports TV. Is it a practice in other countries to have sports channels? Yes, and there are sports channels that are as commercial as Mr. Matesha said if I'm not mistaken, there are also sports channels that are organized by roof sports institutions. What brings me, as an agent, into confusion on the one hand, is that we have alleged commercial television by the executive authority and that in unintendedly spent funds, on the other hand here is logically imposing the variant that sports television is actually a sports channel owned by the HOO. If the government claims that money has been illegally spent, then I believe that other steps should be taken in addition to the opinion of the Croatian Parliament. If the Government is right then someone on the other side should be answered, if the Government is wrong, then someone in the Government should answer what puts the Croatian sport roof institution on a pillar of shame. About these things for Croatian sport it is unacceptable to be unsettled for almost two years. Two years of Croatian sport works in a way that we are all in a dilemma. Is there anyone in the government playing a game, or is there someone playing in the HOO? What makes sense to me is that first of all, we need to change the legal standards that are related to sports and drive sports policy away for miles. I've said this sentence on different occasions and discussions about sports on many occasions. I said it knowing about some local football specifics in my area because the other day on the city council thank God for the conscience of the representatives of all parties refused the initiative to raise 6 million kunas of credit to resuscitate dues at the Sibenik football club, while not putting ourselves on the bench or a brief explanation for what we would spend the money or what the football club would spend that 6 million on. Such is the situation with football clubs in most major cities of the Republic of Croatia. We have a situation of atrophing different sports that were once top sports and feather sports of the Republic of Croatia, we have violence in stadiums. This kind of disorder and such inconsistency in the pursuit of sports in Croatia cannot be allowed, it is unacceptable. And this Parliament has the right to know, but very clearly, is the resolution minister responsible for this, or are the people who run the WHO responsible for it? This bickering is not leading to anything and we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament are obliged to change the legal framework of Croatian sport and remove politics from sport, to leave sport to young people and to give it the function that belongs to it and which would be logical for any normally arranged and decent society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107610	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107611	Dear counterpart Baranovic, you have touched several topics new in your debate, and one of these topics that may have been secondary and before mentioning is the role of sport in society. You said they didn't matter so many medals, I totally agree with you, we're all proud of athletes who win medals and they're ambassadors,... However, you've touched one topic that's very important that's being bypassed and we always look at it as a cat's hot oatmeal, which is that stadiums are a place for primitives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you have to ask yourself, what is the role of the Olympic Committee and of all other institutions in how much they have worked and how much could they have prevented it? I've heard a question these days after that punishment that came from UEFA how can a racist stand in stadiums be banned? It's possible, by just these measures that UEFA is, you can. How can you do that? Anti-air conditioning for that. We supported people, we beat them, we offered them just shout it out, and now suddenly when someone punishes us, we say, so how is it impossible, how can you forbid someone to yell? So long as there is such a political climate in Croatia that racism is allowed so long to shout in stadiums. There are measures and other countries have implemented it. And what's very important is that you mentioned no dialogue. I was the other day when we were at a political reception mentioning two highly positioned, most positioned politicians in Croatia who are on the same page they say they are not talking. We also know that the prime minister and the finance minister have not talked, so it is impossible for the resolution minister not to talk to Mr Matesh every little bit and not to discuss that the Prime Minister is not interested in this and that they do not find solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107612	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107613	Just one sentence, please. A colleague from the SDP was recently in China, and then I asked her where she was. She said I was in a small town. So how many residents are there? Five million. We're four million 300 and we're not talking. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107614	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer. Here you go. You won't answer. Thank you. Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107615	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you have found in your presentation that the success of sports is not measured by winning medals but by how much we have ripped off young people as we have involved young people, and here I agree with you. But I'd like to add that it's measured and how many total populations we've involved in certain sports activities. I think there's one big orientation in us exclusively on one professional sport and then we say sports stadium we call a sports facility that I don't know 20, 30 people deal with sports, and I don't know 15,000 drinks beer, eat chips in a situation where all the studies show that the nation has threatened us too much, that we are ahead of it in Europe, and let's just say that people in the '40s don't have, except in their own initiative, they don't even have the opportunity to engage in any sport. We have a large mix of this amateur and professional sport, all mixed up, social communities finance in the first row I'd say professional sport. About two or three months ago, I was up in Stuttgart, so I asked them how much you give for your club, Stuart, and he looked at me like I fell off Mars, so what's the point of giving me a professional citizen's money club? I think this particular endeavor should be what you pointed out and young, but also the entire population devoted to sports and recreational sports, and distinguished professionally from amateur sports to just achieve these strategic goals that the greater percentage of the population is engaged in sports for the sake of the well-being that is obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107616	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Pandek, the problem of Croatian sport is, among other things, the fact that you yourself have led everything into a mix with us, that we no longer know what is amateur and what is professional sport. And in this situation we're in a lack of financial resources then he doesn't even know what we've given for amateurs, and what we've actually given for professional sport. Many clubs that are de facto professional clubs owned and managed uninterrupted de iura and de facto funds not only of sports alliances but of local self-government units, county and this is an unacceptable state. The availability of sports infrastructure to the citizens of this country whether it is young people or whether it is citizens who should be recruited for the sake of a healthier life is directly linked to real investment in sports infrastructure and sport general, amateur one who is for citizens for the health of the nation for the mental health of the nation, and these funds are not enough is often happening to us that because of the weakness and indefinity of the system of money that should go to these purposes goes to finance private professional sports projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107618	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Baranović, of course, which I support that and general sport practice is important that through the Olympic Committee through clubs, through any organization that has to do with sports we get ultimately the right people who are primarily shaped, educated and ultimately sports-oriented. But on the other hand, we're looking for commercialization, first of all, of people who come from the SDP and who, in fact, would like to say, you're dealing with amateur sports. We know that both the Olympic competitions and the Olympic board in fact the whole of Croatia lives out of great recognitions in world and prestigious competitions such as the Olympic Games and where Croatia has indeed been profiled not only through the Olympic Committee where football belongs and, of course, all other sports, but this is the best indicator that Croatia is aware of today at all levels. Therefore, the suggestion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is purely political, it is politicised and you can see that only the left side of this House is against the Olympic Committee's report. And the question arises exactly what you asked, so if that's how the government claims why no action is taken. Apparently, they have no evidence of that, obviously they have no guts for it and surely lead in this direction to degrade the work of the Olympic Committee and those of the Olympic Committee. The government's recommendation and suggestions are precisely that they are not suitably suited by people sitting on the Olympic Committee today, and that is the point that has been going on for some time since this government took responsibility to lead the state of the Republic of Croatia and that is a fundamental issue. So you don't have to brainwash people here with this or that, the basic question is, you don't answer to the people sitting on the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107620	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is a very ugly fact that we here are truly in a position to be judges and that we are actually showing ourselves about whether an institution like HoO has done it by law or not. We are parliamentary representatives, but we are not part of the Croatian judiciary, the institution of the rule of law or we are lawyers. I don't want to be a judge or a government. As a parliamentary representative who seeks to be responsible for the citizens of this country who pay him, I ask the Croatian government clearly to take steps to gain no opinion but a clear legal solution and an indication of this confrontation. Whether it was done by law or not. If it's done by law, then, of course, it's political responsibility for who staged this case or provoked it however you want. And if the law was really broken, then every organized society knows what conjecture is to be applied to. These blurred stories to Croatian citizens in this country are a lot. I repeat once again, and after your replica, I ask as a parliamentary representative that the Government is not just sending us opinions, so then as Pontius Pilate, let us deal here with a job that should be done by someone else who clearly defines the role clearly in society, clearly, for that is paid, educated and qualified and authorized. If there has been a violation of the law please gentlemen of the Government have the institutions of the rule of law, let them be obvious and then let the one on one hand or on the other unbound who brought us into a situation that instead of working on an upgrade of the sports system to his thoughts and remarks in this hall we are today acting as judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107622	Thank you. Ante Kulusic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107623	Mr. Vice-President Baranovic, I agree with you that the Croatian government has put the Croatian Olympic Committee on a stage of shame for two years. However, with each other in your debate, I disagree when you said you were glad you didn't raise your hand for a loan to the Sibenik Football Club, that means that the Sibenik Football Club must go bankrupt. And the fact is that you are as the mayor, that the Football Club Sibenik started to transform while you were the mayor and the city of Sibenik gave a million kunas for reshaping and out of those 5 million and 800 thousand kunas was 4 million kunas from another pension stake that the state couldn't write off. If the town of Sibenik, if the owner is now the owner of the town of Sibenik where you as the mayor went into transformation and the city has given a million kuna unless the credit club is raised must go into bankruptcy. By then, you should have known how to end the transformation process and that without additional funds, the club must go bankrupt. It would have been better if he went bankrupt then than if he were going today, he wouldn't have lost four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107624	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107625	Well, I'm glad to see you, colleague Kulusic. I expected you to present this as a replica. Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The club will definitely go bankrupt Because even those six million kunas can't take care of everything that's a political set in which you've been participating has done to the Sibenik football. [[Intrudica Batinić: Kolega Kulušić turn off.]] Sibenik football is fortunately not going to go bankrupt because there is a balloon playing on Šubićevec before and will play in the future. Whether the club will formally go bankrupt and which is why, which is why, perhaps part of the answer lies in the question of whether all the football club's affairs have been legally conducted. A part of the answer lies in the question whether the congregations of the football club were regularly held as prescribed by the law. Whether financial reports were regularly submitted, as well as how money was spent, as well as how money was made, and how and how the financing of Sibenik football has been conducted for the past 10 years and perhaps longer, these are questions that ask their answers. And I will watch them as a parliamentary representative from Sibenik who once went heartily to Šubićac, for example, the excellent right-hand bee of the current mayor Goran Spider, playing the balloon and as a man who loves Sibenik and Dalmatian, Croatian football and sport in general and his city, ask and answer these questions I will get. The 6 million are not a solution, the solution is clean and healthy running the Sibenik football. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107626	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107627	Dear President of the Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013 and can say on behalf of the HDSSB club that we will support it. Because here he writes the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee. And we can say when we look at these materials and they are really many so that they can be useful for the Croatian sport strategy only that the minister has a little more time and that he can read them. But seeing the ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia change as on tape and so does the minister of sports, then we can say that ministers change and politics remains the same. But we can say that this policy should have a much better attitude towards Croatian sport. As Croatia's policy and resolution ministry did not form a strategy for Croatian sport, the goals of the resolution ministry are unclear, it is unclear that it wants to implement a policy, which it wants to include and what it wants from Croatian sport. But the easiest thing is when the material comes to the government to give a negative opinion. But when we read all these reports and look at the reasons for this negative opinion, we read as parliamentary representatives, and that is what I said in the replica earlier, we do not see the reasons for this negative opinion, then we can say that it is probably the only reason that is political. Looking at this report we can praise him, but we can also say in a section that has often been swept through the debate today, and that is easy doping to sports television, we can say that we can consider it good or bad, we can discuss sports television today, whether or not it should be discussed, we can discuss whether HRT should be involved in a relationship with sports television yes or not, whether or not from its income can finance and want to finance exactly sports television and help develop sports television because I think that we here in the Croatian Assembly can agree that such television is needed by the Republic of Croatia and promoting sports, particularly unattractive sports. But I also today want to congratulate all athletes on excellent results, congratulate coaches, congratulate sports clubs, especially congratulate parents who from early childhood lead children to training, direct them because they want to have athletes in their family, want to have a character with a strong character and a developed sports spirit. This is what Croatia needs, this is what Croatia needs, which unfortunately dies today and has no clear goals. Looking at that, just in 2013 we achieved good results, that we brought 333 medals from big competitions to Croatia, seeing that it was a huge promotion of Croatian sport, and I would say that when you want to produce something, it takes time. If you want to produce a top athlete, it takes 10 years to produce a top athlete, it takes a lot of investment, I would say from parents, from clubs, municipalities, cities, counties, the Olympic Committee, but also from resolution ministries. But what is evident, since we do not have a strategy on sport, since the tax system does not encourage us to have more Mercen in the Republic of Croatia which would sponsor sports, then we can say that the tax system must also be changed, adapting it to a new time so that in the next report we do not only have Agrokor which is more significant they have included in the financing of the Olympic Committee than other economic systems in the Republic of Croatia which would be encouraging just to invest in children, sports and the future of the Republic of Croatia. A little while ago, a lot of hard words fell on the expense of sports television and also on Mr. Matesha's account, and I'm kind of sure in those audits that anything Mr. Matesha found wouldn't be sitting with us today, sitting somewhere in jail or somewhere where he might be tried in some courtroom. But the Parliament is not a court, the Parliament is today discussing this report, giving suggestions, making suggestions, and criticizing what is not good, but also praising what is good. I want to say that a lot of these inspections were on the Olympic committee, and I just said through the replica that only internal audits were making recommendations and those recommendations were being removed by people. But it is important that all of us adhere to the revision, so when we look at the resolution ministries, Croatian public enterprises, and in particular the other day we discussed the resolution ministries, and when we see that only two have received unconditional audits, then we can be concerned about the functioning of the resolution ministries. But I would also be critical today if I had seen in these reports that the Croatian Olympic Committee had failed to comply with the law. But there is often talk of unintended spending of funds. Looking at this report, I'd like to find that the funds have been spent on purpose. Is that revenue that the Olympic Committee makes, and is not addressed by the Croatian government's resolute ministry, for sure that it has certain powers to finance certain things brought by the Olympic Committee. The Olympic Committee is Croatian, but also international and follows the trends that Olympic committees do in neighbouring countries. But looking at these reports and looking at these several pages of these reports, we can then conclude that there were no irregularities found in these reports. I'd like some colleagues who go with irregularities if we in the Parliament got exactly the reports that maybe among these I'd say hundreds of sides we didn't find, too, to get them. But in what we've got, we haven't seen any irregularities. What I want to say on behalf of the club is that exactly the programming and financial report is extremely exhausting, detailed. The Croatian Olympic Committee monitors sports through all categories, not only of the Olympics, and this is very important from the youngest categories because we know that this selection is important I would say by school, by clubs to perform the best and to work the competitions at the lowest level. It is also these children's competitions, the Olympic games of children that I think are very important and encouraging to compete, compete, train and achieve the best possible results. I would also like to say that this report clearly states that the tenders were also for the financing of sports associations of local importance. This is also very important for us in Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek. I see a lot of clubs have also been part of these competitions. The important thing is that the funds go through the competition, and I want to commend that. Also, top athletes are recruited from local associations. This is exactly the way of leading athletes is very important and the Olympic Committee is following them, leading them and not having such results as so small a country in 2013 if they hadn't followed them. What the Republic of Croatia must, must invest more in sports infrastructure, I would say from schools to sports playgrounds. Because it often happens to us in local administration units and schools that instead of in the evenings we see children in halls, we see recreationals who pay for halls, and children can't get to school dates. It shows that money is the focus, not the development of children. The system must also be changed by the resolution ministry. Fighting for young people is extremely important from primary schools to develop children. But to us as... The regional development of the Republic of Croatia is important, it is important to invest in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, and not when a athlete achieves a good result that he has to go to Zagreb automatically on the second day to continue training, in order to have the conditions that I would say all top athletes deserve, but also in all regional centres of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in Slavonia and Baranja, or in one regional centre called Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also want to commend and volunteer hundreds I would say wonderful people who work without compensation, who help children on their development path. Because this development path is extremely important, the way children mature, when they need to be monitored, I would say in diet, when it is necessary to follow their path and training, when it is necessary to monitor and balance them in order to achieve top results. Therefore, what must clearly be a recommendation from today's debate is that in Croatia we need a clear strategy of our sport by 2020, because we know that we can withdraw a lot of these funds from European funds, structural funds to make our sport go forward, especially sports infrastructure. Also, I mentioned mecenium earlier. Not only do we not have them in sports, we do not have them in other activities or in culture. Therefore, the message today must also be from the Croatian Parliament and our resolution minister, the finance minister, that the tax framework must be stimulating to put people right into sport. I know that this left-hand side has provided a sufficient majority for this report to refuse. And what happens if he refuses that report? The Olympic Committee will continue to work, there will be nothing, and I am glad that athletes and sports collectives are deciding who will be chairman of the Olympic Committee, who will lead the Olympic Committee. Because it's important that our Olympic Committee be independent of politics, even though we see that it's addictive. Why do I say addictive? If they don't let you go of everything planned in the budget, then in the financial year, we can say that you are addicted, because they didn't release all your funds in 2013 and you couldn't finance what was needed in 2013. I hope that there will be reasonableness in 2014 to realize what is needed in order for your income and expenditure side to be balanced unlike our state budget, which is very much in balance and accomplishes from year to year a growing deficit. I also want to say that Croatia is a small country, but it is certainly a country with many top and great athletes. What is often different in Croatia and just before here is someone mentioned Sibenik but other sports collectives in Croatia are in trouble and are difficult to close the financial structure. It is necessary to separate professional from amateur sports and that is what the Resorving Ministry must also do with the legal framework, but also to help finance the sport itself. What's been going through a lot today, and that's sports television. I wish in the report we were a little bit wider, and not one side we touched sports television to see its ratings, to see the plans for next year. Because Mr. Matesha, you have on several occasions said that this particular 2017 will be a turning point. I'm afraid that attacks on that sports television will break it much sooner and that sports television, unfortunately, won't be the business plan that was set out to make it happen. So, watching sports TV, and that's probably what I said, there's probably a doping thing more. We need to know if that sports television will be able to serve its obligations to the Olympic Committee. And I'd like to hear it from you, Mr. Mateo, today at the pay phone. We have often heard that sports television is funded in a way that is funded, but I would also like to hear from the ruling ones what it will do to improve cooperation with sports television, and sports television with local TV is evident to work well together. Then it would be logical to cooperate with national television. Looking at what the government has marked everything in its opinion as negative to go into this report in the Croatian Parliament not to accept and by looking at your obvious then I can admit that in your obvious statement you have responded to everything the Government has criticised. You have instructed them and answered questions and I am pleased and that makes it easier for us to discuss in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I would like more today in the Croatian Parliament to talk about Croatian sport, the future of our Olympic Committee, athletes and sports results, less sports TV, more about perspectives and the future that follows us in the coming years, especially by 2020. Therefore, the HDSSB club will support this report. But here, I'd like another indication from Mr. Matesha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107628	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107629	Well, colleague Bubalo, I'm not active in sports, and I'm not a personal appologist of Mr. Matesha in any particular context. But I would agree with you if it were really this... who was above the Croatian Olympic Committee especially in the term of the former minister was indeed I must confess to me as someone who was a superficial observer of these events almost and surprisingly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The force of that impact is as if the Croatian Olympic Committee is the focus of the social problems of the Republic of Croatia and that some sort of clearing will suddenly solve not only the problems of Croatian sports but also Croatian societies. If only they had shown such strength, strength and desire to solve problems where problems really exist in Croatian society. I personally observe the sincerest speaking of this HOO in the first place in the context of the results that Croatian Olympicism and Croatian top sport experience in the past decade and realizes and I think that these results were largely prided on both the Croatian state and Croatian people and that it is actually a top Croatian sport even one of the rare segments of Croatian society where in fact every Croatian citizen can be proud to live in Croatia, which is from Croatia and what Croatian athletes represent especially in this top sport. From that point of view, I really didn't understand at all what was the problem with this ruling set of HOOs? And the third thing, when you were talking about sponsors and problems of ownership in clubs I think those two things are actually the real things that the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Olympic Committee could do much more to make them much better in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107630	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107631	Thank you. My colleague Đurović, you were just talking about the focus of the problem. Surely the Olympic Committee is not the focus of the problem, we have the hotspots both in agriculture and regional development and in deficits and in all those problems in the macroeconomic environment that we are talking about, but sport is proud and has achieved a lot of good results. So it's for congratulating. But you just touched two very important things, which is sponsors and owners. That's what the HDSSB is talking about. This is a clear difference between amateur and professional sport, and that is that the tax system is also adapted to being able to reach sponsors in both sport and culture and in some other activities for which there is no space in the state budget, but unfortunately for which there is no hearing in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107632	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107633	Dear colleague Bubalo, in your presentation, you wondered if HRT should engage in cooperation with Sports Television? And more colleagues today mentioned that we today need to give answers. We may give answers, we won't decide anything because it's up to the government to decide. The government needs to talk and the government needs to decide what? The media strategy he's been promising for three years. But for 3 years, it has been gone and will be during this government, a media strategy, there is no one to write. It's very clear. How will the government bring in a media strategy if they don't know what to do with HRT? When he doesn't know what HRT's function is, he doesn't know how to make order there, who to set up, who to replace. With the HRT that introduced the verbal delinquent to the big door. And that's what we keep quiet. Here, and you mentioned, that Parliament is not a courtroom. It's not in that literal context, but Parliament is the court of the government, the Parliament condemns the government. At least most of them. The Parliament rules on those bodies that correspond to the Parliament. So let's not have these floscules, we're not courtrooms, etc. Yes, this majority will raise their hands, refuse something, and she will judge it and put a crime on her back if there is a criminal. You also mentioned the mecenary. I don't agree that there's only a tax problem with us. Tax is one of the problems. We have a problem with wild capitalism. We're in the original accumulation of capital where capitalists want to secure their chucun-grandsons, don't give anywhere. I didn't see any except for the exceptions to theatre performances, the promotions of capitalists. I only see them here and there at football games. And now these guys on the left would like them to see each other a little bit so they can take over the Olympic Committee. The thing is, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107634	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107635	Thank you. I was already afraid it wouldn't happen, but I picked up the tile. Namely, counterpart Vuksic is sure to need cooperation between Sports TV and HRT, but it is also necessary for the government to talk to the Olympic Committee and to understand each other, to help each other and to watch the progress of Croatia's sports exactly, but I would also say the availability of Croatian sports results on television. But this is not possible through HRT. There is no media strategy, but it is evident that Croatia has almost nothing to strategy and that is why we are wandering like this I would say for years. But you just said you don't know who to place on HRT. They certainly knew who to place on HRT, so they adjusted it. But you just said that the Parliament is not a court of government, but I would also say that my colleague is not even a judge of the Olympic Committee because I got a feeling today through several replicas and a debate that today is being tried by Mr. Mateshi. That's unacceptable. It should be indicated if something is wrong, but it should also be commended. I'm sorry we don't have any more matches in Croatia but I'll tell you that here in Osijek, Slavonia and Baranja there are some good people I'd say especially for basic sports, and here I'd say for gymnastics, swimming and some other sports that are basic. Therefore, good people are found but certainly to further stimulate them with tax relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107636	Thank you. Sasa Djujic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you said that the material did not show why this report received a negative opinion. You also expressed regret that you didn't get some of the documents we're talking about here, and I'm also sorry that you didn't get them. Why is that? I don't know. I received them as a member of the Sports Committee which we, as a committee, have asked the Ministry of Finance for additional information after the debate was held, and they say what they are saying. You said anything happened that Mr. Mateo would be sitting somewhere else today, not here. And you also said that you have the feeling that the Parliament here today is a courtroom and is being tried by Mr. Mateshi. No, don't judge Mr. Matesha or I think Mr. Mateo should be sitting somewhere else. We're here to talk about some kind of irregularities and to point out some of our grudges that we don't think are good at the work of HOO, and anyone who wants us can take it well on purpose. So no one was saying that now someone should go to jail or anywhere else, but the fact that in this report that stands, and if you're very interested, I can give it to you behind the session, it says exactly that the Ministry of Finance has sent all the documents to the State's Attorney's office for further action four months ago. How it's gonna end, what's gonna be there we'll see. You said that you would like to talk more about the future of Croatian sport today, so that's what my colleague Bubalo is talking about and talking about the future of Croatian sport because this way of financing sports television, guarantees worth 37 million kuna guaranteed by HOO if Sports TV fails and these guarantees come at the expense of the future of Croatian sport. And one more thing, you said by 2017 we should be able to see if he survived. So there are laws in the Republic of Croatia, does this mean that by 2017, we should wait until Sports TV pays its dues, does it not pay salaries and work with a blocked account against the laws of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107638	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107639	Thank you very much. Comrade Sasha, I wish we all Assembly representatives had this material, not just the court of your party. So it'd be good if we got one too, so here's the thing, even after the session, let me take a look at it. But when we talk about irregularities, I would also like it if we could have seen irregularities in the report, but it is much more important whether someone removed the irregularity or did not remove it. Therefore, Croatian sport has a future, the question today is just whether sports television has a future or not? It is logical that if he has a blocked account that he will not be able to comply with the legal rules, I would say that Croatian sport has a future and the Olympic Committee, but I believe that the question of sports television will be resolved very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107640	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a respected colleague, it is generally strange that today we can discuss that such a report by the government is not accepted, that the government gives a negative opinion and you said that the left hand side of the assembly has already made a decision. Well, I hope not. Because that would turn out to be very hypocritical, so as not to accept a HoO report on which all positive opinions and audits are on days. Does not the Croatian government really trust the state audit? Well, it's a body that controls and the government's work in the end is a little surprising, but it's hypocritical, so anything is possible. But you were talking about donors, sponsors about entrepreneurs, and who today in this poisoned climate in the Croatian state will dare even sign a donation agreement and give some money to a club when they're going to make a quick application and end up with the tax, crime police, the state's attorney's office I don't know which institutions. That's what's happening today. People who want to do something good for sport today can't do it because they're going to get hurt, they won't get rewarded, they're going to get fines, they're going to get applications, and then someone else is going to clap. I have a case with me in my Križevci where people are trying to make sports grounds worth a million kunas to make sure the opposition, the local opposition from the Kukuriku Coalition, writes applications and reports to a man daily. So who dares to give more than one kuna? The climate has been poisoned, the situation has been poisoned and it is truly incredible that we are discussing whether the 2013 report should or should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107642	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107643	Here's colleague Hrg, I'd like to agree with you to accept the report, and I hope the left-hand side hasn't made a decision. But you were just talking about sponsors, who will dare donate sports? Well, I think there are wonderful people in Croatia who donate both sports and culture, but I'm more concerned about these very inspections that go on order. Well, it's no accident that such inspections came to the Olympic Committee. I think the government has to trust the state audit and I expect them to believe. Therefore, I also expect to discuss with the Olympic Committee how to improve Croatian sport, how sport can deliver better results and also how to resolve the question of sports television. I'm sorry if in Križevci Kukuriku the coalition writes these applications, I don't think that's good, it's for condemning because it's just a donation to sports, the development of sports, and especially of the youngest categories, and it's very important for the Križevci as well as for the whole of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107644	Thank you. Marian Skvaric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague at the beginning of your debate you stated that we really need to deal with the future of sport, we need to discuss the strategies of sports that we do not have, we should also turn again, that practically the whole debate has started with you in politics and that again and again and the whole debate as well as most of the debate is about television and not about the concrete things. And that the only thing that I would say right is that we should give thanks to all athletes in a way that is very much promoting the ideas of sport, but they also promote Croatia as a whole. Of course, in that part, I could point out that I can personally be satisfied if somewhere, if we talk about promotion, somewhere in Angola or somewhere else in Africa, ask someone if they've heard of Croatia, so we're surprised they've never heard what we're asking them about, but when you're talking about Schuker, then they know it's a football player. There we can be proud of it, and at the same time we can be concerned and what good do we have at all? And there's what sport brings to all of us, the sustainability of sport itself, and the question is, is it professional sport or sports business or is it some other activity? And I'd just like to mention that at that point you said the same thing, that you mentioned about donors, sponsors, entrepreneurs who should help sports clubs be sustainable. But then one question, do you know of a first-year-old who was kind of off in football? This is the Vartex Football Club. Is that what he's talking about? Maybe that middle of the north is more proactive, is it more promutuous, is he really respecting, where these money, first of all, public money needs to be invested, while they have other environments that invest a lot in sports, and then the question finally how much of it do we have?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107646	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107647	I could agree with you to discuss the future of sport, the strategy, but also to thank Croatian athletes. But just before you said when someone mentioned Croatia in Africa if they would know about Croatia. He's from Osijek, so I believe he will. But when we listen to the former minister who spoke about the swamp in Croatian sport, then it is certain that these are not suitable statements and the drying up of the swamp. But we see sports as amateur or professional and he as professional can be business. However, it is evident that there are few such sports clubs in Croatia, but also a little strong economics I would say to the economy and economic space that would finance sports. You said earlier that one of the first leaguers had been suspended, you mentioned Vartex a little while ago, but Vartex also had wonderful days during Mr. Herjac who had very carefully run that club. Therefore, it is always a matter of people, to the president but colleagues and to politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107648	Thank you. Ante Kulusic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107649	Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, not to agree 100% with your debate, but a million percent, I support a full debate. The fact is that the Croatian government should take more care of the infrastructure, of the facilities that will be done this week at the football union assembly, as Hungary has done for the infrastructure. I will repeat again on the trail of my colleagues as soon as he has said what we have from it, I will repeat that Croatian athletes have done more to promote Croatia than all of us politicians have done together ten times. And thank them for that. Unfortunately, however, you mentioned Sibenik, and then I have to replicate more to my colleague Baranovic from Sibenik, and I agree with him and with you that the government has put on a pillar of shame the WHO. But so in the same way as the Government calls the HOO, and it now calls the leadership of the Sibenik Football Club without arguments, without anything like the Government calling the HOO, which is not good, it is a political intruding into sport, and it is known that politics must go out of sport because it's a hoo will continue to function normally, whether we accept the report or not, just because the government unfortunately doesn't trust the state audit but simply come inspections various to drain these sports swamps that have brought so good RH and RH promotions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107650	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107651	I had to replicate because I find it strange to agree with someone from HDZ million percent. I'm kidding. You just mentioned a wonderful example, that's Hungary. They have one prime minister who lives in sports and fights for sport, and that's Victor Orban. Recently, the European Commission also controlled the funds they invested in sports and found no irregularities. But the man invested a lot in infrastructure fighting for that sport and how to spend money on sports infrastructure. And unfortunately, if the minister tells us about the depletion of the swamp, if the prime minister is against and does not accept the Olympic Committee's report, then we can only ask in the Croatian Parliament a question, which is the plan and what is the strategy of Croatian sport, which are the objectives, how will we achieve these goals. But just before you talked about the pillar of shame, I wouldn't say that they were actually left to... The Olympic Committee on the Pillar of Shame because it is a very good part of the parliamentary representatives who are speaking and points to everything that Croatian athletes and the Olympic Committee have achieved with them. So a good part of the report was praised and we can say that the Olympic Committee was doing a good job. But just before you talked about football, so I come from Osijek and I can say that Croatian football is not only Dinamo and Hajduk, but also Osijek, Zadar, Sibenik, Rijeka and all other clubs that exist. But we need to create exactly a tax system and a framework that would stimulate entrepreneurs living in these areas to invest in sports to invest in professional sports and to see their business interest because now we have a good part of the problem that clubs have come out of bankruptcy, that cities have left to individual associations or stock fans and that they don't know what they're going to do. So in that part too, we need to stimulate them to get entrepreneurs into club ownership and see their business interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107652	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. Sasa Djujic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matesha, Mr. Coop, colleagues and colleagues. Sport has a special place in Croatian society. Croatia as a young and small country, thanks to its athletes' great successes since its independence to date, has sided with the world's sports forces. Our country can boast of the number of medals from European and world championships and the Olympics. Our athletes are now a recognizable part of our identity and rarely our best ambassadors. They have just made a great contribution to Croatia's international recognition, it is they who make us proud and united that we look forward to, which we grieve and sometimes forget about all the problems we face. They give us back optimism at the most difficult times, for them and for them we live. Together we looked forward to the successes of our Fire, Hell, Barakuda, our cowboys, regional heroes like our volleyball players, football players, handball players and water polo players, as well as the extraordinary successes of individuals in individual sports. Sport is a mandatory part of the education programmes in Croatia at all stages of education, numerous children and young sports are also engaged in extracurricular activities, which then live in recreational form and as a way of life therefore do not need to be surprised and all these sports results achieved by our athletes. As in most other European countries and Croatia, sport is financed from the state budget, state and public contributions, sponsorships and membership fees. Lately, other than sports successes in the public and the media, unfortunately, there are more and more ugly things involved in sports. An affair related to non-transparent sports financing, non-transparent and non-democratic management of sports associations, the accumulation of problems, the increase of violence and hooliganism on sports grounds, problems in football, increasingly empty stands, the dissatisfaction of those due to which football and play are fans. We're getting more and more news about the penalties our alliances and clubs have to pay for. These are things we need to talk about and try to find a common solution. And in order not to be misunderstood, I do not feel that this is the Croatian Olympic Committee's fault, although here today we are discussing the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee the topic is sport and I believe that every opportunity for public reference to these problems should be used. But now we're back to the subject. The Croatian Olympic Committee is the highest non-governmental sports association established in 1991. Under the Croatian Olympic Committee, more than 70 national sports alliances work. It is before us today, as I have already said, to find the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013. For this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion and that opinion, the negative opinion is also supported by the SDP Representatives' Club, which will not support this report. I will try to explain briefly why the government gave a negative opinion and pointed to irregularities in the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which also established the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance. The Croatian Olympic Committee and the Association of Citizens whose status, structure and tasks are prescribed by the Law on Associations and the Law on Sports. Of the total revenues of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2013 amounting to 109 million 187 thousand 656 kuna 91.92% or 100 million 364 thousand kunas were achieved from the state budget. The government points out in its opinion that the detailed insight into the Croatian Olympic Committee's report set up the accidental spending of funds against the Law on Sport and the Statute of the Croatian Olympic Committee for the financing of the company HOO TV d.o.o., i.e. Sports Television. Article 75 of the Sport Act stipulates that these are public needs in a sport carried out by the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is not lending to a company. At the end of 2013, loans turned into the core capital of Sports Television and recorded on marketing promotional activities in the public needs programme for 2013 which is absurd. I'd like someone to explain to me what it's got to do with the recapitalisation of some company with marketing activities. This is unintended and illegal financing, which was also determined by the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance found that the Croatian Olympic Committee increased 4 times the basic capital of Sports Television in the period from 1.1.2010 to 31.10.2013 and today stands at 7 million kunas. He told his colleague Bubalo earlier that he was sorry that the other MPs didn't have this document, and that's the report's report, the find by the Ministry of Finance on budgetary supervision and said that he only had the court of our party so purely for the sake of the public this document was addressed to a colleague of Darko Milinovic and now just to remove which court my colleague Bubalo thought, but that's what Col. Milinovic got as chairman of the parliamentary board. Generally, the Ministry of Finance, in addition to non-intentional spending, has also identified a number of irregularities in the work of SP TV, for example, through the capitalisation of sports television in its supervision. In this report, I now mention contractual relations between Croatia, between sports television and individual private persons, between sports television and other companies, I will not mention them here publicly, if I should, and later, I do not think it is correct but the irregularities that have been identified are the following. In relation to the entry accounts of certain companies, it is apparent that the quantity of contributions delivered is lower than the agreed number of contributions and the full price is paid. In the course of the account of the operating contract during 2011 the account was also paid more than the contracted one. In the course of the 2011 accounting of copyright fees, it is more than agreed. The accounts of the operating contract for 2011 and 2012 were carried out on the basis of an unverified dossier. In addition to the entry accounts of certain companies, no additional documentation has been provided to demonstrate that invoiced services and services have been provided. The accounts of travel orders for one employee have been carried out on the basis of an unverified documentation or, with travel orders, no documentation has been provided to prove the expenditure. The Ministry of Finance also found some facts, which is that sports television has raised 4 loans totaling 37 million 340 thousand 748 kuna and 97 limes for which the guarantee was issued by the Croatian Olympic Committee. It was also found that the loss in the sport TV business of 31.12.2013 totalled 59 million 747 thousand and 300 kuna. In the record, the Ministry of Finance stated that the Croatian Olympic Committee did not take into account the long-term sustainability and viability of sports television. It should be noted that the Ministry of Finance has carried out targeted surveillance at the request of the County State Attorney's Office and that, following the supervision, complete documentation has been submitted to the State's attorney's office for further treatment. When we look at the Sports TV balance, we see that it's a company that's been doing business with losses since its founding, and they're now close to 70 million kunas. That the last two years have been in an almost continuous blocking account that has been blocked today. That this is a company that, according to the Ministry of Finance, doesn't pay salaries to its workers for more than a year. That despite the financial difficulties of 2011 to date, this company has increased the number of employees, in spite of the losses it has continuously increased over the past three years and the average salary in 2013 is 8162 kuna net. The truth is, they don't pay off, but they do create some sort of obligation that someone will later need to settle. That it is obvious that the company is operating against the law and that, by all regulations and laws, bankruptcy and liquidation should be initiated. Of course, these indicators of the Croatian Olympic Committee should have knowledge of them through the work of the Supervisory Board, but I do not think that, say Mr. Matesha, perhaps you should even know all this information. Now, if the bankruptcy and winding-up is launched, according to all the legal standards, then the guarantees given by the Croatian Olympic Committee come to the collection of the guarantees and debts of Sports TV, we come to the annual budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which translates into a threat to the financing of Croatian sport. It is obvious to all but gentlemen of the Croatian Olympic Committee and obviously to some in the opposition, not to mention the irresponsibility of the Croatian Olympic Committee as the owner who, despite this kind of business of the Sports Television, did not call for the responsibility of the people who run the company but also gave them support in the constant recapitalisations, which means that even the leading people of the Croatian Olympic Committee support this way of doing sports television. In 2010, Mr Mateša said that if one lip from the Croatian Olympic Committee budget went to Sports Television that he would withdraw from the post of president, and so far, tens of millions of kunas have gone. We can only imagine how much of this money could be financed by national sports alliances programmes and what a rebirth would be in Croatian sport if those funds had ended in national alliances among athletes who were also meant for. It should be noted that the commercial audit attended and paid by the HOO itself asked the Croatian Olympic Committee to show guarantees in its balance sheet as its potential obligations for the very risky business of Sports Television, and the Croatian Olympic Committee did not do so. Sports television has not achieved its job since the beginning of 2010 because its unsustainable business concept has put Croatian sport at risk, and ratings as the only measuring tool is such that it is also a promotional disgrace. We have footage and news of the Al Jazeera Balkans. An attempt to save such a delay without a concrete business proposal is dangerous for Croatian sport. Mr. Matesha has been announcing strategic partners in Sports TV for two years. Where are they? Only after four years of business of Sports Television and so many accumulated losses has the Croatian Olympic Committee asked the Croatian Government to declare Sports Television of national importance for the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that sports television is a failed project that may have been well imagined at the outset, but today it is evident that it has failed. There is no shame in saying we made a mistake, we give up on it, but such a stubborn and persistent delay and perseverance only makes the situation worse and endangers the financial future of Croatian sport. Sports TV today wouldn't save Chuck Norris from joining the director. In its opinion, the government also warned of the lack of clear criteria under which national sports alliance programmes are being evaluated and the funds are being allocated accordingly. Namely, the criteria under which the Croatian Olympic Committee is working today were adopted in 2002 and are today inapplicable. To begin with, there were cca 50 sports alliances, and today there are over 70. The lack of criteria has also established a sports inspection and issued a solution to the Croatian Olympic Committee that within the legal time limit they are being passed which has not been done. The adoption of criteria is a constitutional obligation of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and since it is a fundamental act of the association, it is also a legal obligation under the Law on Associations. The criteria do not exist and this concludes that the funds are shared in a contractual and selective manner. The Croatian Olympic Committee is obliged to use, in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, in particular in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and efficiency, the way in which the revenue is set up and financed by the State budget. And just one more piece of information, here today through the debate it was also said that colleagues from the Croatian Olympic Committee invested their own resources in Sports TV and that they could use it as they wish. That's not true. In particular, Article 86 of the Treaty on the The Statute of the Croatian Olympic Committee states that budgetary and other resources are achieved in accordance with the law for use only. Therefore, in accordance with the said article of the Statute, the means to be realised and by their own activities, the Croatian Olympic Committee should be used to improve its own activities and its members by applying the applicable acts and decisions of the Assembly and of the Council, and these obligations for the promotion of its members are certainly not infinitely recapitalisation of companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107654	Thank you, too. The President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Matesha, came in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107655	Honorable Vice President, MPs and MPs. It's like a time machine. I listened to the same exposure last year, and apparently there is a deep dispute between us about what an association can or cannot do. First of all, as to whether the Croatian Olympic Committee can have sports TV as a promotion. I must tell the honourable representative that this is not the first time that the Croatian Olympic Committee itself or with someone competing for concession in the media space. The first time was in 2003 when we lost along with the Evening List, he got RTL. The second time in 2006 an agreement was concluded with Croatian TV during Mr Galic's so-called a third sports channel that has for several reasons not been realized. Our statute clearly states that there is a promotion of sports in our jurisdiction. I don't know what it would be to promote sports if it wasn't to promote media space and not to include what we're talking about. If you're a respected representative, and if you're right, if that's what you say, then there's no justification in the Law of Sports, nor in our statutes, nor in the Government, with all due respect, and one can interpret our statutes. The government can't say what's constitutional or unstatual about some kind of association. In addition, we finally submitted to the public tender of this government, the Croatian Government, which political options and the competition in the normal procedure received concessions. If you're right, then you could have said you can't win the concession because it has nothing to do with you. As regards the financial part on page 61 of this report, all guarantees are given exactly what days are and, of course, there are problems in the business of such a single television primarily given the climate created around it. That's a fact. So who and how could in some way balance the pressures around it. As far as the Department of Finance's report is concerned, we don't have the same reports. I guess you're getting someone else. What we have from budgetary surveillance is not indicating any illegality, and as I know today none of us are conducting any procedure that you insinuate in any way is being sent to the DORH. Well, we, too, have sent applications to the DORH and we are conducting proceedings against the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because today we are in a situation where one man deploys 100 million kunas alone without any criteria whatsoever and we think that this is less transparent than what you put on our burden. And the biggest problem is that double criteria, this situation where someone can do something and someone can't do something. You have the EVO TV set up at the same time by the Croatian Post Office, in which 200 million kuna is invested and will never be profitable. But it's just about sports television. This is Croatia's biggest problem. There's no mention of this other part. I'm probably not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107656	Thank you. Now we're gonna start with some replicas, we're not gonna make it all the way to the break. Orderly, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matesh, I'll try quickly, I don't know I'll be there in two minutes what you said. You're saying whether the Croatian Olympic Board in order to promote sports can have its own television, you're saying that you legally got a concession in a public tender, that the government should have told you then you can't have it unless it's in accordance with the law. You can have television in your possession, but you cannot finance it with dedicated money, money from the Croatian budget intended for sports associations and sports associations and where the law clearly defines how it should be spent, how it can be finished. You're saying we don't have the same reports. Well, we don't. I'm sorry, because I see that, I mean we don't. I found it on the board this morning when Mr. Chop said he didn't have those reports. But we got them as members of the Sports Committee. Why don't you have them? I don't know. I can give it to you in the back. Don't think that someone's self-initiative job is your own report. This is an official report by the Ministry of Finance on the budgetary surveillance carried out by all members of the Sports Committee. So not only the SDPs, but the HDZs and the independent lefties and everyone else sitting there together. I can give it to you later, now at the hearing stop if that's what you're interested in not seeing that I made something up. That's what this report is about. And I'm not insinuating that the DORH is running this, the DORH is running that, it's being sent to the DORH, it's not being sent. That's all in this report. But from today's debate, I come to the conclusion that obviously I am the only one in this assembly who read this report and that apparently I am the only members of the Sports Committee there to read the materials and prepare for today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107658	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107659	I don't know how the procedure works. EVO TV was a word on the Committee as well. You cannot compare EVO TV and Sports TV, as Croatia is a postal company that comes to its revenues on the market with its activities. Thus, this administration has either profit or loss and that administration is responsible for the business of that public undertaking. And you are an association financed from the Croatian budget, which has its prescribed tasks and objectives. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107660	Please, colleagues, you've had a chance at a replica. Can we continue our colleague, Boric? Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Mr. Zlatko Matesha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107661	Well, you see, I've done some homework as well as an esteemed representative, so I have this material and I've checked out even the esteemed representative and you voted for this material. I checked. This is the financial plans of the users of the state budget in 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016. That part doesn't matter. However, on page 734, encouraging public-needed sports in the HoO brackets, and that lists everything that the HoO needs to finance and even from public funds. And at the end of that list, it writes a continuation of the promotion of Croatian sport through the specialized sports channel SPTV, whose 100% owner is HOO. I really don't know, I mean, either the Parliament voted it or it was planted. I don't know, but I think it went in and it was officially published as a document, or Parliament law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107662	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matesha, it's very interesting to listen to the debate here. It is about everything, and it is not about what is the fundamental task of the Croatian Olympic Committee. It is particularly interesting, though, to listen to certain institutions used for certain political accounts. If this Sports Television is a commercial company, then the supervision of that television is carried out by the Tax Administration and other institutions that are responsible for the control of companies, and if illegal budgetary resources are used, then budgetary supervision is carried out. But if the budgetary supervision made this record, which is spoken of by counterpart Djujic, then you, as the beneficiary of the budget, were obliged to obtain this report and to show yourself about it. The other thing is, we're chasing the concepts of budget and dedicated resources here. These are the means of gambling and they are directed towards the HoO under special law and according to a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You should know that, too. But it's very interesting that someone doesn't mind a minister's assistant for two years on her own, and besides the law, he directs funds to whom he wants and according to the criteria. This is not a matter of budget supervision, for this is not a variety of inspections, because it does not matter, because someone does so in the service of the party. That's right. But if we're going to talk about the rule of law, then we stick to the findings of the institutions that are responsible for it. So it's stupid for me to spend another year spending all day discussing everything and not discussing sports, and I'm going to do it a little bit more in my individual debate. However, denying the findings of legal state institutions is simply ridiculous because of political accounts. In the meantime, however, the minister left, who initiated all these findings, while HOO and Croatian athletes remained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107664	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107665	Thank you very much. Well, I just want to replicate to my esteemed colleague Mateshi the part where he says it's not a matter of time, whether this is a matter of time machine no, that's what you said in the introduction. Well no, this is a question of credibility and the principles of a party that simply in some way everyone who is successful in this society is being targeted because they themselves are failing. So whoever did something in entrepreneurship, in anything, in sports, they're targeted because they're extremely failures in the business they're dealing with and then reaching out to stories like this and principles. Because if it were the way a colleague represented it would have been in a similar way if he had the will, only a little will would have taken all the ministers to Remetic because he had entered the evaluation of the projects. We have these days a failed project that cost 50 million kuna. It began and lasted three years and disappeared in 17 seconds as far as I could see in the government, 17 seconds was explained by giving up monetization. 50 million kuna was spent, the project failed. What do we do now? Who do we punish for that? Was the funds intended or not intended? Can budgetary surveillance determine that? Or, the failed HPB project 35 million kuna i.e. Privatisation of the HPB. So we threw 85 million kunas that we could give the sport the same way. Not to go into all the audits we've discussed here, and most of them have accepted, through all the ministries, through local self-government, regional self-government units. Well, there's no, they're, they're numbers in minimum amounts, i.e. in the minimum parts of those who receive unconditional opinion. So, we're all subject to some kind of assessment which would be good or not be good, but let's not use it in a way that the party here in the 4th year of office is trying to somehow take that body that HOO in an unauthorized way. If you want to play sports, you have successful people in sports and they have a party card so there are ways to get to the top if that's good. And don't do it this way because this really doesn't make sense. And in the debate, I'm going to talk about sports television.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107666	Thank you. Next replica, Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed Mr. Matesha I memorized what you said was the goal of HoO's promotion of sports. I absolutely agree, and I'm sorry that we're here in the debate right now talking about SPTV, and we're not talking about athletes. I think everyone here who we are is interested in sports and probably one of us has been in sports for a long time and absolutely that should be the goal of HoO. But I can't help but walk past that sports television that I'm a athlete, and I'm really happy there's a lot of sports on TV. Unfortunately, I watch only program 2 when the League of Champions or something that is truly attractive from sports. My biggest concern is that sports television is indeed a great consumer, and here is my colleague Djujic said 70 million kunas have losses, a jury account has been blocked, no salaries paid, to increase the number of employees, and despite all this, it is expensive that the net salary is 8160 kuna. These are data that really talk a lot. But the worst part of it is that watching sports TV is between 3% and 4%, and you're denying me if it's more. That's the biggest problem. I agree that we should invest in sports, that sports television needs this country, that we should have as many sports on TV as possible, but when we see that the total ratings is 3 to 4%, then we have to ask ourselves why all this together? I did for sport, so let's make those draws for sports television even bigger, but then really make it a better view and that we can watch sports on TV. Here, that's what I actually think we should take more care of, not whether we need sports television or not. We need her, but she has to be more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107668	Thank you. Now we're done, we're gonna stop. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. I wish you a good one who will have lunch and we can all rest together for a rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107669	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of the club, that's the HNS? ... It doesn't say here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Veliko Kajtazi, is not present. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Parties of Work by a colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107670	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with the Secretary-General, one colleague and three MPs, but good, nice time is outside and no one is allowed to sit here. It is, when the debate on the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee is held, then some have already said today. Yes, it has been seen and will continue to be seen, because this is ultimately the obligation of the Croatian Olympic Committee because about 91% of the budget is done and reporting is an obligation for the Croatian Parliament. The second thing is, I agree with all those who spoke because this part of the proposal came to the Assembly about 2013, it seems to me there in 4 months ago, on 16 October the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave an opinion. That opinion is negative. Clearly, it has raised many questions and discussions today. This negative opinion has also been given to the Croatian Olympic Committee's opinion on the government's opinion and we need to give our thinking and our opinions here in the debate. And I agree with all those who have said that in advance to declare someone that he's been doing illegal acts, it's not good, there are institutions in the state that have to, based on some indications, eventually take their stand and then say it. And that's not a good way to argue about it. In particular, it is not good to discuss all those athletes who have made a great contribution to the promotion of Croatian sport, especially to those who promoted the Croatian state in competitions and to all those who gave significant results and helped to make Croatia more beautiful in the world. And clearly, like a small country, we can certainly boast of a large number of top athletes. And as a country, we can be overly satisfied and we must continue to cultivate it. Any politicizing when it comes to sports is not good. It clearly does not go to the benefit of sports and clearly that in that part and we should refrain from some qualifications and practically promote and give young people the opportunity to continue to deal with sports. Clearly, in this situation where there is no financial resources, then we cannot blame the Croatian Olympic Committee for not doing anything if it is limited by financial resources and if it is working somewhere around 109 million kunas that can be shared and thus promote sport. There are many participants in this section, and it is very difficult to share that money in order for them to satisfy all interests. Clearly, there is a question of local self-government which must also contribute to the same, but which also has smaller resources. And this is the problem we really need to talk about and talk about in a way that those talents in sport that can promote Croatia, give good results, do not stop them and allow them to deal with sports. In that part, I will look back and on something that I think may have been meant to stand in this report not in a way that is business when it comes to reporting but with all the nice things that have been happening in Croatian sports on our terrain there are also some negative things happening. And these negative things need to be talked about, and these negative things need to be built, but they need to be sanctioned. I sometimes have a problem with the way in certain sports competitions, shouting Ustasha greetings, getting sanctions from foreign committees, FIFAs and punishing our athletes, and simply hiding our heads in the sand and through the Croatian Olympic Committee and through certain alliances we do not want to talk openly. It is a problem for Croatia and as many of our athletes on one side promote Croatia in a nice light, so far such events create a certain negative connotation. That is why I think that in the reports, but also in public appearances and in the Croatian Olympic Committee and all alliances should clearly take their stand on this. Because here we are now not long and witnesses that and around the football game with Italy we will play in front of an empty stadium. Clearly, it's a message that we send to the world very badly. Clearly, these sports workers need to say very well how in a way that participates in this work do not come up with such excesses, but clearly that a quality law is being made that will greatly sanction all those who do so in the way they do to the sport, but also to the state. There was a talk here today about sports television, and I think I'm going to look back in one piece, like I said at first, not get into a lot of debate, not repeat myself with those who have already said some things. Maybe the idea of sports television was good, but the idea is something we need to see through the real happening as much as that sports television can promote sports in this way. I agree with the president when he said through smaller financial means we have enabled ratings, but the question is how many people's ratings and in this way, whether sports television can survive if it creates loss year after year. Creating a loss once we have to say what's the limit, how we're going to solve that loss. Because here's some of this data I have in 2010 was 70 thousand 766 kuna loss, '11. There were 14 million 971 thousand 693, '12. The year was 22 million 653 thousand 186 kuna and '13. In the year 21 million 470 thousand 186 kuna. As much as it is and what it is in '14. For a year, we don't have any data on that. They're mostly dealing with this 59 million kuna data, which is clear that the loss that needs to be seen in a way that solves this situation. The situation can only be resolved through a particular dialogue through a resolution ministry with the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is the founder of Sports Television and must be seen if it has a chance to continue to work or seek some other solution, but in a way that this part of the loss must be resolved. On the other hand, there is also a part of the obligations, credit obligations that need to be discussed on what the Croatian Olympic Committee has given the guarantee and that is the problem that needs to be solved. I will not enter that it was not the jurisdiction of the Croatian Olympic Committee on its bodies to make certain decisions. Whether these decisions were best or not, sometimes they are very easy to make, but it is also necessary to admit the mistake and to look for a way out of this situation. Not looking for a way out, creating a certain conflict, we will only do damage to that Croatian sport, we will do damage to those young people who are interested in sports because in this way, if politics are to be fired, they will be disgusted and that part of their way of trying to deal with sports and those who are talented to reach certain top results. We need to encourage them in some way, in some ways and adequately reward them and stimulate them because they will continue to be the most beautiful promoters of the Republic of Croatia, and we need to catch up with them and we need to solve them because no one else will solve them except us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107671	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Suncana Glavak and counterpart Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107672	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Matesha, Mr. Chop, colleagues and colleagues. Most of today's debate is unfortunately not about sport, but we have dedicated only to one segment relating to the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is Sports Television. To speak only about sports television in the context of the Croatian Olympic Committee I think it is absolutely unfair for all athletes who generally defend Croatia's colors, whose results we are proud of and who are more than once, today is said the best promoters of Croatia. Usually in that context we know how to say so who can pay for it. No commercial can bring as much good, if you want useful for our economy, for our bonus tourism as our athletes do. But when we talk about athletes and the Croatian Olympic Committee then we must make it clear that the Croatian Olympic Committee is not only the Olympics, that the Croatian Olympic Committee and all those children who are involved in various activities supported by the Croatian Olympic Committee, the resources that stand out to keep young people busy with various sports activities and that we cannot deny them. Of course no one wants to say it, but I'm going back to what I said at the beginning, HoO is not just sports television. Now that we've touched that subject, then I would like to make it clear that the idea of starting sports television was actually to give an opportunity to all those little sports, conditionally said small. All those sports that don't get a chance to be in public service, who don't get a chance to be in commercial television, or get that. Of course, in this context, we can also discuss how the Sports Television Programme for which reasons it looks and whether it actually performed its function. Of course we have the right to say that we are not satisfied with such a program if that is indeed the case. However, we do not have the right to present flat-rates on the work of the same sports television. As far as the Croatian Olympic Committee is concerned, I think that Mr Matesha, in the final word, might say more about what an Olympic cycle means, which means preparation for an Olympic cycle, in what conditions this is happening, which our athletes have to go through to meet the strict criteria and finally get the financial support because, unfortunately, everything in our society tends to come down to when we talk about how much it costs or how much it is invested in. There is a very clear categorization of Croatian athletes. In five categories they are classified. There are equally clear criteria in which coaches get money, whether they could be better. We could, you know, talk about it. There were different proposals, as well as on the parent board in which money could be paid. Of course, it can be solved, and it could be resolved that there was will and when were the last amendments and additions to the Sport Act that we were then saying was not a complete solution and should be better. As far as the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee is concerned, we have already said something about it. So, 8 different inspection controls, state audits, sports inspections, budget controls, etc. I really ask you to look at the find of the State Audit for 2013 which, for example, had a number of objections to the operation of the Ministry of Resort and which gave him a conditional opinion. We need to make it clear what or what someone was doing illegal or not. We are not allowed to bring any flat-rates, because unfortunately such flat-rate reviews will be only to the detriment of Croatian sport. Croatian athletes must not be reduced to different political games. This has already been the case here today, and absolutely we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club do not agree to any system of blackmail or reading of what is not written in some documents. Since there's a colleague, Kulusic, who's joined us, I'll leave him 10 minutes so he can touch other topics. He won't be just from the football home he belongs to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107673	A colleague of Ante Kulusic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107674	Madam Vice-President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this debate today, it seems like we are having a debate about the state budget, not a report from the Croatian Olympic Committee. And before I say anything about the incredible fact that we are having a parliamentary debate on the Programme and Financial Report for 2013 I must ask a very important question and give criticism to the President of the Croatian Olympic Committee to Mr Matesha and ask him whether and when you will sue the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for carrying out the untrue damage of honor and reputation to you personally, the Croatian Olympic Committee as a roof institution, but also to Croatian sport as a whole. No government and no ministry has done as much damage to Croatian sport as this government and the resolution ministry. For several years now, starting with the already respected parliamentary representative, the former Minister of Science, Mr Jovanovic, and so many lies, insinuations, pointless accusations about the Croatian Olympic Committee and Croatian sport that this is simply amazing. We know who invented a propaganda method that often repeats a lie becomes true. An image has been created in the Croatian public, and as far as I hear it has been succumbed and respected parliamentary representatives that Croatian sports workers, Croatian sports institutions are all determined by criminals who are non-transparently and unintendedly spending the funds of Croatian citizens. However, it is true that during 2013 and fourteen years the Croatian Olympic Committee was under even 8, I repeat eight times. This has been said 20 times since this morning, that there have been as many as 8 different inspections of State audits, sports inspections, budgetary controls and all other possible institutions of this country, and that none of them have ever found anything criminal, any irregularities available to public funds or unintended spending of budget funds. How, then, it is possible for Prime Minister Milanovic, as a top financial expert, to stand in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who signed it, to quote "with a detailed insight into the 2013 HoO Report", the end of the quote, observed irregularities and unintended spending of public funds. I want to believe that as the responsible prime minister, except for that pamphlet he signed, he has called on the institutions of this country to deal with the PDO. As far as I know, neither the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is responsible nor has he done anything to prevent or punish the accidental spending of public funds. And he didn't do it for a reason because it just doesn't exist. This has not been established by the inspections and controls controlled by the HoO over the past three and more years. Croatian sports and Croatian athletes are one of the best products of this country, and we know who has set the tendency to dry that swamp and just all the political and propaganda drive to criminalise this best part of Croatian society, to destroy its reputation and ultimately be the best part of this society. For that you are gentlemen from the SDP and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science you are responsible. I'm just asking a question, will you and when will you be responsible for what you do to Croatian sports? It is true that the commercial audits controlled every year by the financial reports of the HOO and each year give them positive opinions, as well as for 2013. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to look at the 2013 State Audit report which had a number of objections to the activities of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and which gave him a conditional opinion as well as a number of other ministries of this government. Therefore, the failure to accept or question the financial and programme report of the PDO for 2013 is purely a political decision and political persecution of the roof institution of Croatian sport and its leaders. In a formal and legal sense, the non-acceptation of the HoO report by the Croatian Parliament has no legal or legal consequences since they are neither provided for by the Law on Sports nor by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament nor by any other act. The Croatian Olympic Committee is an association of citizens or NGOs and neither we as representatives of the legislative authority nor the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as representatives of the executive government have any formal or essential influence and we must not influence the functioning of the non-governmental sector, especially sports organisations. From the fact that this is all about political decision and non-acceptance or questioning of the HoO report at the political level, we see the most serious problem. In fact, this political decision is the direct interference of sport policy in the most serious way possible and the most dangerous is the violation of one of the fundamental principles on which the entire system of sports rests at the world level, which is the autonomy of sport. To remind our political colleagues from the ruling party and representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia once again about the autonomy of sports. Sports autonomy and non-governmental and non-profit sports organisations entails autonomy from all influences and interference of policies, states or third parties to the issue of organisation, democratic standards, selection and decision-making in sports bodies of all levels, financing sports from public or other sources and spending on financial resources, adopting implementation and interpreting rules relating to sports and sports activities and other issues relevant to sport activities. In other words, sports and sports organisations, even if they are financed dominantly from the state budget must be independent of the impact of the policy, must have financial independence which includes independence at their disposal by financial means even when and when public budgets are concerned if they comply with national and international laws. This responsibility that sport has in society and autonomy that regulates itself has led to its credibility and legitimacy. Such autonomy means preserving the value of sports and existing structures of sports that develop in Europe, the world and Croatia. Gentlemen from the SDP leave Croatian sport and Croatian athletes alone. Let's all watch the Croatian sport together and help him be even better. According to some estimates, thanks to the government's destructive policies, only in this year has Croatian sport lost about 200 million kunas from the state budget. They've cut the detours by 20 million kuna. By reducing funds in towns and municipalities, sport lost another 100 million kuna and only in the City of Zagreb 60 million kuna. Your policy and your unfounded and false nicknames of Croatian sport have led to the collapse of Croatian water polo club "Youth", KK "Zadar", KK "Split", HNK "Hajduk", KK "Cibonu", not to mention hundreds of small amateur clubs that are shutting down throughout Croatia. This year, the only wrestling club was shut down after a hundred years in Rijeka. Gold Olympics Sandra Perkovic has no money to prepare. World record player Snježana Pejcic is training in a hall with no water and no electricity. The athletes don't go to the competition because they don't have enough money. A large number of athletes are in blockades. What was done by the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the situation in sport? Unfortunately, what will remember your contribution in these 3.5 years, and it will by no means be a reference to these latest amendments and to the addition of the Sport Act to the emergency parliamentary procedure. You put him in an emergency procedure to avoid a public hearing. And now that's the 56th item of the agenda. You didn't let the wider sports audience discuss the emergency proposal, and now we all see that you just wanted to avoid them, that you cheated on them. An even bigger problem is the content of this proposal in which you propose full policy control over the distribution of financial resources in sport, more specifically the minister responsible for the field of sport, without any established criteria. You politically refer to HoO and his leadership instead of asking them how we can help you? There's been a lot of talk here today. What if we as Parliamentarians did to make an even greater number of children and young people involved in sports, to make our citizens more and more able to play sports, so that our athletes won even more medals and even more and better promote our country in the world. Stop destroying Croatian sport, Croatian athletes and Croatian youth, stop the haranga at Croatian sport is not too late. Let's do something positive for this best and brightest part of Croatian society. The HDZ Final Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107675	Thank you. And now for your exposure, we have replicas. Sasha Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107676	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Kulusic, I listened carefully to your debate, you said this was a direct mix of politics in Croatian sport, you studied to us SDP gentlemen, let Croatian sports and athletes be at peace. I am very pleased that you are talking about politicizing in sport and that politics there should not interfere, as far as I know you are a highly positioned person in the Croatian Football Federation. If I'm not wrong about the vice president of the Croatian Football Federation? Eleven members of your party are sitting on the Executive Board of the Croatian Football Federation. A colleague, Kulusic, against you and what you and your party are doing to Croatian sport a month ago, more than 30,000 citizens protested on the Split Riviera. They are protesting against you and your policies of people in Zagreb, Split, Osijek. Every Sunday, the fans at the games tell you what they think of you and your work. So much for who does what to Croatian sports. I ask you, as head of the Football Federation and gentlemen, when you go to bed and go to sleep, do you think about what you did to Croatian football? Take a look at yourself and think about what you and your party are doing to Croatian football and where you brought us. ... It's okay, pal Shucker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Up to three places 15 years ago. Every Sunday at the matches Croatian citizens who are making the football game order what they think of you, your policy and the politics of your party and the involvement of you in the Croatian Football Federation. Think about it, Croatian citizens will say what they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107677	... A fellow Shucker, a little nervous. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did you get the word? You didn't get one word. Ante Kulusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107678	Dear colleague, I have come to Croatian sport as an international football judge and I have given much more safely for Croatian sport than you. Direct political interference in sport is not that 11 members of the HDZ Executive Board are members. Unfortunately, only HDZ members and possibly a small number of SDP members who want to join the sport turn out to be. When my colleague Bubalo talked about the Vartex football club, he said that the vartex football club was at its peak when the late Angelko Herjavec was president of the club. Angelko Herjavec died of all honour and thank him for all he has given to Croatian sports. He was the same HDZ member, and by that logic, he would never, by your logic, be president of the Croatian football club Vartex. Mixing politics into sports is the roughest form, that's what you're doing today. Mixing politics into sports isn't when he's some kind of athlete, when he's some kind of political member of a party, when he's on the executive board, and when he's president of a club, it's not mixing politics into sports. Mixing politics into sport, the way to destroy Croatian sport, and that is unfortunately what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107679	Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107680	I thank the esteemed vice president. A colleague, Kulušić, did not say at any time that sports employees are corrupt, that criminals or I do not know what you have already listed in your debate. Don't send the wrong and incorrect message because it didn't come out of this assembly. And here as MPs, we have the right and obligation to discuss the HoO report and point to everything that's wrong. We gave last year in good faith, in good hope that what you don't expect will be corrected. But that's not exactly how it turned out. We want to make it right and finance the sport, to finance the Olympics and the Olympic spirit, but it didn't happen. No one touches Croatian athletes or Croatian sports, but we touch what is wrong and what is wrong should be eradicated and these are the words that come most often from the other side of the pay phone. You're not talking about the report either in software or in financial terms, but only because you have an assignment to defend the HoO. And when you talk about SDP and SDPs that aren't for sport and they're destroying sport, I'll say it's not like that, if you look at anything else at local level and I'll say for example my community, we're very worried about athletes, we're very much out for sports, and it's not a very big asset, and it's not just an Olympic sport, but we want the sport to go from the earliest to the oldest age because we want a healthy nation and in a healthy body is a healthy spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107681	Ante Kulusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107682	Dear colleagues, I am extremely pleased that you said that in your midst you care about sports and I congratulate you on that, but what your colleague said you should not be engaged in sports because you are an official, because you are in politics. But I congratulate you on playing sports and helping athletes in your midst. I didn't say that it came out of this assembly what you said, that those who deal with sports are criminals, that's not what I said. What needs to be corrected last year for the 2012 report when it comes to sports TV, we all said here if there are irregularities that these irregularities should be sanctioned. However, to accuse someone constantly of being a thief, and there is no information about it, we have led to the fact that Sports TV cannot find any sponsor today or that I understand President Matesha's very few sponsors that she has lost enormous amounts of funds. And only 200 million kunas this year Croatian sport has won less because of this... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107683	Allen Prelec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107684	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Glavak said that Hoo...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107685	You've reached out to a colleague, Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107686	And Glavak, too, performed together. My colleague Glavak said that HOO is not a political organisation. I'm asking Mr. Matesha, where did he come from for the president of HoO? Directly from politics. Mr. Kulusic said by what move the government has done damage to the HOO and Croatian sports. So here I am directly asking you to answer me directly what actions the government has done to the HOO and Croatian sport? And what my colleague said, criminals, I don't know when someone said this between us that there are criminals in sports. To have it all is a fact. The athletes are the feathers of our society. I agree and I think we all agree that they are the biggest promoters of Croatia, but they do not work. Athletes. And we cannot credit the fact that in Croatian sport it is really far heard and that the success of Croatian sports is attributed to officials but exclusively to athletes. Here we go from Kostelic. Do you think the Kostelics made it because the hoo invested millions in them? No, because they were lucky to have a father like that. Like hundreds of other athletes who only made it because of their families. I still think there's a lot of bad things in sports, and there's good things. We all like to be proud of the successes of Croatian athletes. However, there is one other thing, when the state and politics need to vote the budget for the HoO and for the sport then it is normal, and when some questions are asked and too many answers are asked, then it is mixing politics into sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107687	Thank you. Reply to the replica Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107688	Dear colleague, I repeat again that I did not say in this assembly that those who run sports are criminals. That's what you've been talking about for years and a hundred times told a lie we know what becomes. HOO is not a political organisation, HOO President Mateša did not choose it politics but was chosen by the HoO Assembly. I don't know how many congregations there are, there's gotta be hundreds of them. And you say exactly how and how politics have stalled sports. So, by not accepting this report without arguments, which is not doing harm to Croatian sport. For two, three years we've been saying that sports TV is a crime, it's all in the hands of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to find out and that we're not fighting here without a clue whether someone is guilty or not. There's someone who's responsible for it and who's getting paid to determine whether someone's guilty or not. Unless we hold on to the fact that the State Audit is an institution to which we have to trust, then we cancel the State Audit, and then we put a political review on it, and then the political review of one party will punish another or vice versa doesn't matter at all. How and how is Croatian sport damaged? Well, we brought here a month ago by emergency procedure, which is why we passed the Emergency Sports Act when the Ministry does it when it's done, so there's no public debate, so that not all segments of sport get involved in the public debate, and now that point is unfortunately 56th on the agenda, and I don't know when it's going to be a turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107689	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107690	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Kulusic, on several occasions, spoke of politics being directly involved in sports over the past few years. So I also responsibly argue as the minister who once led the portfolio as a member of the ruling coalition that in the history of the Croatian state the politics of a government did not interfere in sport, not one decision made by the government was the interference of politics in sport. Sports policy and mixing politics in sports means when the president of the state forbids NK Rijeka to be a champion of the state in football, sports policy means when the president of the HoO forbids a sportsman to wear a flag because he has a wrong name, it's mixing politics into sports. This government only asked for clean bills, that the money that's being allocated from the state budget should be told exactly what it's spent on. This government has never said that 100 kuna is being transferred to one sports alliance or another, that would be mixing politics into sport. So I responsibly claim this government in its term of office has not interfered with a single move in sport. You mentioned the swamp, no one ever said, so neither did I. It's a swamp sport. It was said explicitly when two football workers, a judge and a club president, were arrested on the question of what it means to arrest those two for the future of football, it was said that if there are mosquitoes, the malaria problem that these mosquitoes carry will not be solved by those two mosquitoes but should dry the swamp. Wise enough. You wondered what this government did to improve sports in Croatia, I could speak for hours. But I'll tell you what's most important, it started spreading the sports base, it introduced judo into sport for free, the funds for the School Sports Union have been increased to a few million, funds for the Croatian academic sports alliance in millions. Thanks to this government and the support it has given, Croatia has become the host of European universities, sports games, the biggest sporting event to take place in new Croatia These are evidence of what this government has done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107691	Ante Kulusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107692	Your colleague Jovanovic, as you did and how you led the ministry, was best told by your prime minister because you are sitting here with me now and now the two of us are fighting over sports here. You're saying you're not, what are you as a minister, when a minister in the government says you need to dry out the swamp, what have you proved by that, what have they done with the empty inspections and dozens of these inspections on the Croatian Olympic Committee? Unfortunately, they didn't prove anything, and they didn't do anything. No, because of two people, because of two people, you said that Croatian sport is a swamp. Well, it would be embarrassing, it would be that football is a swamp because of two people. Well, it would be a tragedy for one of us here to say that because of the two appointed ministers that the government is a swamp, none here on this side nor the parliamentary deputies have said it. If it had been the other way around, you would have done a lot of ironing on HDZ. No one said the Croatian government is a swamp. On this side, you could only hear how the Croatian government is working, not doing it right in our opinion, and how it works will be evaluated by voters in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107693	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107694	Thank you very much. By listening to your discussion and listening to these today's debates, I have the feeling that all these people who spoke today about sports do not know in principle how to reach the Croatian Olympic Committee. Each national alliance first has municipal, city, county elections and the choice of national alliances and these elections are also very dynamic as elections for the Croatian Parliament etc.. So there's kind of a way to say democratic procedure and no one from any political party is forbidding to get involved in the work of a small local club, to walk around, to wire, to help, to come to games because it's basically starting and it's a nucleus sport. And this is a shame that we're listening here today. And I'm like a man who's in sports as a player as a man who's at the head of a club and a man who's been led by a national alliance I'm truly ashamed. Because what those athletes are going to think, which is going to make you so many, thousands, thousands of volunteers who sacrifice their time, their families' time to boost sport, to promote something that is the strongest instrument against addiction for young people, the strongest. There's no better instrument than sports to drag kids away from drugs and all that expensive stuff. What they'll think after this debate. So is that really the kind of sports television that's such a problem? But when we talk about HRT that swallows a billion and 300 million money from Croatian citizens, then you don't have such a bile debate on the other side. And that's what bothers me. I can't say for my colleague Jovanovic that he's not a athlete and I'll never say that because we're seeing each other at games etc., but I'm sorry we don't argue in this assembly as athletes, first of all as a athlete. I thought we were going to argue like that today. If we're going to say that sports television is something illegal, so... Let's put her there, so... [[Intruder ZREBEC: Time.]] once and for all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107695	Ante Kulusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107696	I agree now to you fellow Shucker that the debate went the wrong way and the kind of debate we're having, we're taking her exactly the way politicians shouldn't be in sports. I once again congratulate my colleague who helps sports, congratulate and colleague Jovanovic, we know that he was in handball, I think he is still, I'm not sure. And normally that people who are in politics are involved in sports. Which in one municipality would be any sports club or sportsman if the head of the municipality and the deputy chiefs and headmasters didn't get involved and according to what we're talking about today, none of these people should be in sports. And we all like to drill and we all like to take pictures, we all like to go to all kinds of world competitions, but in the end, it's less important, we all like to take pictures but we all like to make fun of each other. And when a colleague says I'm glad I answered because I'm the vice president of the Croatian... Yes, I was an international football judge and I tried the first character and as such I was in the Croatian Football Federation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know how the others are coming. But here I'm going to say once more about politics and sports. There are over 30 people from the HDZ in the Assembly of the Croatian Olympic Committee of 48 people. Two years ago there were elections when just 50% of people voted for one candidate, 50% for another without any influence from the party's summit. And that's proof of how and how HDZ works. But let's change rhetoric in the interest of Croatian athletes and Croatian athletes, let's not give ourselves the importance that we politicians are important, athletes are important.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107697	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107698	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you are constantly encouraging the topic of politics and sport, i.e. as politicians here today we interfere with the Croatian Family Committee, autonomy etc.. No, I don't. We're the one thing I'm gonna ask you a question and an answer. I'd like to hear it. 59 million kunas of losses and 37 million kunas of credit debt that HoO has given a guarantee someone will have to pay. If obviously Sports TV is not able to be provided because of such a market situation, it will have to pay either the HOO or the budget. And it is natural and logical that we are discussing it because in a certain way we believe that it is jeopardizing the basic activity for sport and that the HoO can be in trouble. It's normal for us to discuss here, it's our basis, it's not to interfere with autonomy, but to ask a question. And when we talk about politics and sports, if there are as many of you as you said in the PDO from HDZ, if you are more than 50% on the executive board of the Croatian Football Federation where you are also in the executive body, are you a sports employee or politician. Well, then don't deny exactly your HDZ involvement in politics, and your base is a good part of the HDZ officials who are in the alliances that elected you. So you've put politics so much into sports that now we can't discuss it is just some kind of protective thing, that it's normal. Are you a sportsman or a politician? You can't argue that we can't discuss the HoO in the way I said, give me answers on who's gonna pay those debts and if we're gonna take the policy out of the sport then in that segment it would really be correct that those who are volunteers and who are really giving their strength to sports and former athletes are the ones who will lead, and we can only be the self-port or...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107699	Time. Ante Kulusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107700	As we like to always clean up in front of someone else's doorstep, but why your colleague and former president were the president of the Tennis Union, your fellow minister is the chairman of the Sailing Union and I congratulate them on dealing with it. But I repeat, as a politician, I didn't come to sports, that I didn't come to the executive board as a politician, but as a former international football judge. ... Normally, we must and should discuss the debts of 30, 50 million kuna and what the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing, but it is not normal to talk about irregularities and unintended spending of funds. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If someone wastes funds, they have to go to jail. We've been talking for two years about how non-purpose funds are being spent. The state audit comes and says the report is excellent, and out of 18 ministries 16 do not have that opinion of the State Audit. What should be there if these people should answer then we should lose all day long as we talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee. We need to talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee, but unfortunately not like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107701	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107702	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm sorry I'm not an athlete, but I support, finance, and I also believe that sport as my colleague Schuker said the strongest instrument, yes, the strongest instrument for behavioral design, the strongest instrument for healthy life and mental and physical. A colleague of Kulušić, you said in fact on a few occasions you said that all day today we are presenting flat-rate reviews about the Croatian Olympic Committee, but I am holding all those who are thinking positively about sports and who are taking care of sports and I am holding that we should actually apostrophe, and we should actually criticise bad examples. Surely we will all agree together here that there are also good sides of course on the Croatian Olympic Committee and should of course be commended. The Croatian Olympic Committee should also work in the interest of sport with clear criteria, in advance of the criteria and criteria published in advance. On the contrary, it can lead to volunteering, or lead to discriminatory access to the allocation of funds. You also mentioned Sports TV, we all mentioned it today, and I'm going to repeat it again, it's a project that proved unsuccessful and all the data says that it's a failed project. Therefore, as such, it is certain that it is jeopardizing sports and that is why we are criticizing here today. When you spoke about the flat-rate delivery of all data today, here I will repeat here, the report on the conduct of the supervision of the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee of 3 November 2014 where it says that the entity controls during the surveillance or, in its observations, did not provide evidence to support its claims from the observations that it would invest in the core capital of the company HOO TV d.o.o. It did not use budgetary resources, or it did not prove that the funds were used from the state budget for the purposes signed under the provisions of the Sport Act, under which Article 51 of the prescribed tasks of the Croatian Olympic Committee are laid down. Therefore, we do not bring any flat-rates but support them with the ministry's reports here, in particular, since 3 November 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107703	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107704	My colleague Bonačić, I agree that good things should be commended, badly criticised. Whether sports television is a success or a failure should tell the controls that said everything was fine there. But you're reading to us for the tenth time here, that's exactly what I said about a hundred times telling lies becoming true. You're here reading us political control. ... That's right, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a political report, it was purely political control in 2014, and the independent body of the State Audit cannot send either HDZ or SDP or HNS or any other party, we do not recognise it. And then let's fine-cut the State Audit, and we'll be fine with party or party audits, and we'll just read and list what it says. And to be a tragedy, the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee says he doesn't have what you have. Is that a tragedy? And with him on the Croatian Olympic Committee, they were in control. He doesn't have it, they've got board members at their addresses, and the Croatian Olympic Committee where she was in control doesn't have it. Intrusion on the side, you can't hear. The board presidents, that's right. But why didn't he get the one under control? Well, he won, so the man says he didn't. [[Intruder: He's got.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107705	On behalf of the promoter, President of the Croatian Olympic Committee Mr Zlatko Mateša. For the pay phone, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107706	I don't need five minutes. Your Honor, I'm not going into this at all, I'm going to do what you said about the family. You mentioned Mr. Kostelic. My colleagues and colleagues, that's not true! Look at the document you have the biggest money is this country you. So it wasn't the Olympic Committee's money or mine, it was invested in the Ski Alliance in 2013 almost a million euros. So you know who financed all their performances, preparations, scholarships? This country. Who's funding today as top coach for Mr. Kostelic? This country, you. Well, we can't talk like that. That's what it says in these reports you're getting. Secondly, if you are looking at the revenue page and you see that income in 2013 was by gambling 100 and so many million and when you look at the spending side you see that all of this is spent on national alliances, to see simply summed up that it was spent on national alliances and programs, not on any television. Well, I think, and I'm telling you again, you've brought a budget in which the Croatian Olympic Committee's task is to finance this unfortunate television, when I have to say so because it's more real. I think instead of all being united, let's make Croatia have one sport program we've been struggling about all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107707	Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107708	Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, We've been here all day and we've been pointing each other at each other. However, it is my fault that my fellow MPs from the opposite, on the other hand, will not realize that mixing politics with sport, when it is not allowed for those to whom the law applies, to conduct a public debate on sport. We brought in, I'll repeat again, we brought in an emergency procedure at the Sports Law Assembly just so that no public debate can be held so that those to whom it relates can't participate in the public debate. And look at the miracles, here on today is the 56th point, and we've already brought it in a month ago. It's direct political interference in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107709	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107710	Thank you, Madam Vice President, esteemed by the HoO. At the beginning of the debate, I would first of all like to congratulate all athletes, coaches, clubs who participated that Croatia won 333 medals in 2013. A large number of national sports alliances, which are the holders of all sports activities and other associations of particular interest, have been joined in the HoO. Their programmes should be in line with the public needs programme of sport at national level and within the framework of the Croatian Olympic Committee's 2013 budget. For 2013, HOO’s revenues amounted to HRK 109 million and 50% of the assets or 55 million were allocated to sport alliances. The distribution of these non-small funds raises the question of how so far, in what way and according to what criteria these national sports alliances shared financial resources. This should be the most important document to evaluate the results of certain national sports alliances. The 2012 report noted that professional services are at the final stage of drawing up criteria for the evaluation of programmes and results of national sports alliances which should provide elements for the quality distribution of funds, and we have now heard that the harmonisation of these criteria for the evaluation of sports programmes and the financing of public needs is under way. The expenditure report shows that the Croatian Olympic Committee has very modestly funded a local sport-enhancing programme with only 3.9% or 4.2 million kuna of the total expenditure, which is too modest, i.e. too small. Of course, I mean the problem and the obligation of the local sports community to pay fees to categorized athletes, and according to the solutions that HoO directed at local sports communities of cities that financed local sport from its modest means. Of course, the topics for categorization are suitable sports results and are classified in six categories. These solutions of the Croatian Olympic Committee go to the local sports community to the city sports alliances where these solutions should be realised or paid for. With such a procedure, the local sports community cannot agree for the simple reason that there is no such funding because there is not enough for the work of clubs in the area of cities and counties either. The only fair solution to this problem is that the payment of sports fees is realised by national sports alliances, and the local sports community should only be financed by amateur sports in its field, and top sport should be the care of the Croatian Olympic Committee and national sports associations. n In this way, the equality and right of all categorized athletes would be ensured, and a sense of discrimination among athletes would be avoided. According to the financial report of 109 million revenues in 2013 92% of revenues from the state budget, i.e. from gambling. The total income compared to the previous 2012 year is 17% lower and the revenues from the state budget are 13%. The total expenditure of the PSO in 2013 is at the level of the revenues made of 109 million. Only 3.89% for special sports programmes such as the Olympics and the Mediterranean Games were allocated to local sport, and 21% were spent on joint programming tasks, salaries, fees, material costs 18.7%. Compared to 2012, sales revenues from 2013 fell significantly from 11.5 to only 4.5 million kuna and account for only 4.19% of total revenues. Due to the difficult economic situation and poor business results, sponsorship has cancelled some known companies and there are no more sponsors for sports equipment. Unfortunately, neither this report nor 2012 has data on the level of wages in the PDO, and we find out from the government's opinion that pay allocations are inappropriately high, which have even increased in recent years. Sports television, the project is made and supported by everyone in good faith but today it has become as much as we have heard today the biggest enigma in the work of HOO. And to all justified remarks from various sides persistently and stubbornly this project goes on. The main objective of the project was to promote less attractive sports and promote Olympic values. And the project was supported by most of the national sports alliances, the National Sports Council, the Croatian Olympic Club, the International Olympic Committee. What has been achieved from that goal? What can you see on sports television today? Here's what's been on the program this Monday more than once I've given myself a hard time and I've looked at what's going on, if there's anything interesting. We've watched a small-footed cup, a women's futsal league, a school league, footage of Highduk-Rijek game, a world of auto-moto-nautics, a replay of the same game, a TV auto magazine, and every hour as the latest attraction of News Al-jazeera. And so it was today. Who's watching that attractive program really doesn't make sense to me. Well, no wonder the ratings of the poor are 0.4%. And if there's no ratings, there's no revenue from advertising that we heard fell by 5 million. Why and why are significant funds being spent on this project, to whom is it in the interest? Because on the other hand, we hear that top athletes don't have enough resources to prepare and go to world competitions. This kind of move by the HoO leadership cannot hide behind the fleet of autonomy of the largest sports institution, especially when 92% of the income comes from gambling. And while today, the law on gambling is taxing everyone, and even the smallest gains of the HoO, a colossal part of modest own incomes under the parol of the promotion of sport, is paving into a questionable sports television project that doesn't even have a far richer state. The management of the HOO is satisfied with the number of programming hours, transmissions and emissions in last 2013. They don't care about the percentage of ratings, they don't hear the cries of the sports alliances about the lack of funds, it doesn't matter that they're defending an insecure sports television project. According to the 20th Financial Report, the lack of income in 2013 amounted to 5.7 million and three loans, out of 6 million kuna, of a million and 220 thousand euros and at the end of the year 10 million were raised in 2011. A new 1.6m-euro loan was raised for further financing of Sports TV in 2013 at an interest rate of 6.75%. This business has long been worrying about athletes, Croatian Olympic Club as well as national sports alliances that are afraid of the long-term viability of Croatian sport. As an founder of Sports Television, the only guarantee and the judge of credit returns is a legitimate concern for the financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia in the coming years. For all of these reasons, the HSU club can't support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107711	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107712	Thank you very much. Col. Schamper, most of your exposure was about sports television, sports television business, credit-lifting for the Sports TV program, you even listed the entire program one day of sports television. I occasionally have the opportunity to watch the sports television you're talking about but yesterday that you watched and that you could turn on the Bosnian-Herzegovic TV stations then you could watch the game's broadcast at night. You can't see it on HRT on all four programs. It's been so many years since Tuesdays, played by the Champions League, and there's no transmission in Bosnia. The Republic of BiH, which has far less financial resources than the Croatian HRT we pay 80 kunas regularly carry and pay transfers and tonight will be on Bosnian programmes also Serbian and these other TVs, federal etc. The Champions League or the Champions League again. Today the HRT will also transmit. So I don't know, let's compare HRT and her sports program and the HoO Sports Television program. Let's compare, compare the funds that are given to HRT and the value of the Croatian sports program HRT and this HO-funded television, and you will see that it is an incomparably worse situation in terms of what we are talking about sports on Croatian TV than on this Sports TV. I don't defend myself, to understand anyone here, and nothing, I have no interest in anything, but there are some things we can't close our eyes and talk about it like that. Thank you very much. Because you're on this side of the other side that caught the hook against the HoO and then you spit everything in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107713	The Iron Seamper answer for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107714	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Grubisic, it's really more impossible to listen to this politicize. Well, this is math, so look at how much credit has been taken, so who's gonna pay for it? I'm talking about sports television. Well, it's a project that doesn't stand a chance. So look what he's carrying, and who's looking at it? The end of last night's Bayern or today's Athletics, so who's gonna watch this? So you know what's on TV today, Martin Kodric, I don't know who he is, and I'm in sports, I'm 50 years in sports, I don't know. There's basketball, the league to stay Kaštela-Gorica, so is it even possible to compare it to... Well, I adopted him today, so here's the replay. Look at the schedule. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replay on the replay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107715	A fellow Shuker. This is the Croatian Parliament is not a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107716	I'm a famous Belup fan, but I can't watch Slaven-Dinamo for the fifth time because I know every action in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107717	My colleagues and colleagues, and then we wonder why we have this kind of ratings that we're doing? Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107718	Thank you. You guys are really forcing us to be HoO lawyers here. When it comes to television that has 3 to 4% ratings, how much is HRT ratings paid by Croatian subscribers of billions of kuna? HRT2 ratings 6.05% in the last month, HRT3 ratings 1.57%. HRT4 ratings 3.24%. Comparing the viewership of this TV with HRT, we can say that this TV seems to be very successful. So from 3 to 4%. So that's your ratings according to the latest data published in April of this year. HRT3 1.57%, HRT4 3.24%. So I think in addition to that, let's just leave this television, so we have a HOO of his work, his results, we can define some conclusion eventually about that television but catch up with Croatian Olympicism, Croatian sport, the problems of Croatian sport and not actually tap all the time to forgive me for the expression about it, to exhaust that same topic. So as far as I'm concerned, I'm actually watching that show on TV about cars that is one of the only decent sports shows if you want on all national television channels, at least in the ones that exist in Croatia. We don't have any other shows other than that show that's going on on TV and how long it lasts half an hour, a car sport, or what it's called, and it's a very decent show. He didn't have one on HTV, he didn't have one on New Year's Eve, and we don't have one on RTL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107719	The Iron Seamper's reply to the replica. But give me a sign that you're picking up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107720	Dear colleague, read or listen to my criticism of the HRT report. I also criticized it especially on the part of the pensioners, not only because of the retirement shows but because of that sport, because the male, male pensioners' population only watch these sports games that are far away, far away very modest, so some of them had to buy MAX TV to see all the best leagues of our Europe. And I'm asking you, you're like advocates of that work, so let me know if Sports TV goes bankrupt so who's gonna pay back these 37 million for these four loans? Well, I don't have to worry, so it'll be paid by our citizens. I don't know, so you're defending the same project that doesn't stand a chance because it has no ratings, no ratings, no income. Well, the proceeds dropped $5 million. From what? Well, they won't pay the sponsors without that TV being watched, so there's no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107721	And Željko Jovanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107722	Thank you. You've talked a lot about sports financing, so one information that's rarely heard is always said that the state gives about 100 million for sport, which is completely wrong. So the relevant data from the Institute of Public Finance that conducted the full research showed that about 2 billion and 200 million kunas are allocated annually for Croatian sport, 75% of which are public sources, funds from municipalities across cities, county to state level. So there are 2 billion and 200 million kunas that come as public funding for sports in Croatia. And secondly, when you were talking about sports television one more time, I believe that the two of us agree that no one has anything against the concept of sports television, but it is against the fact that the founder has not all these years provided funding for this project and the project is unsustainable. So 31.3. In 2013, total outstanding liabilities amounted to HRK 56 million. I ask you and all of us here what will happen if any of the credentials apply guarantees and launch bankruptcy? This will mean the bankruptcy of all Olympic sports because all of the HOO budget will be spent on the settlement of these guarantees and debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107723	On behalf of the promoter, the president, and the reply to the replica Željko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107724	Dear colleague, I've been most committed to sports television because I'm really troubled by these huge loans. It's 37 million, and HoO himself is in dubiosis. So if I can't handle my finances so how will he ensure he's paying off these huge loans in the coming years? Besides, I've been in local sports for 30 years, and I know that, and I'm always talking about this great injustice that HOO issues solutions for those top athletes, and now you local community dig out of where you're going to go and how you're going to pay for it. So that's why two years ago I was talking about the fact that there was discrimination among athletes of a team and it's perfectly normal for it to pay off a single national sports alliance and then there would be no injustice within a team. And switching it to local sports, so it really doesn't make sense. Well, we at local sports in cities and counties have 85 clubs, so citizens have to finance all these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107725	And now the president of HOO Mr. Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107726	Without the intention of pollemising, I know about this study, which was discussed by the distinguished representative Jovanovic. It's a very interesting study, I'm a member of the National Sports Council and we've been ordering it. In that study when talking about it, then it should be said that the horror of it refers to the financing of sports infrastructure. I'll tell you what it's like. It looks like Zagreb. In Zagreb 50 million kunas each year go to the Arena Zagreb where there are no more than 30 days of sports, if we do not count on the Wedding Fair, the talks with the dogs and what are called all these events, etc. In order to obtain an objective picture of this, it should be excluded from all calculations because it is infrastructure owned by either state or local administrations and self-government, cities and the like. As far as categorization is concerned, dear representative, so we're just issuing solutions, we're not making any legal solutions about who's going to aliminate categorized athletes. By the way, our proposal is that all categorised athletes of the first and second categories, with as far as I know, the ministry agrees in future amendments to the law are financed from one place and that everyone is in this sense equal. So I think it's something that would be correct for all athletes regardless of where they live. As far as this television is concerned again, this kind of debate leads to people who would objectively cooperate with such a company, listening to all of this certainly will not have a great deal of will and it is absolutely counterproductive, whether it is to whom or not. And we're not doing anyone any favors that we're telling in advance something's going to fail, something's not going to liven up instead of finally doing something to make it come alive. How come they were all and you said it yourself, how that everyone who supported this project was, and after two years, it was a completely different atmosphere, and we're not going to deal with it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107727	Thank you. Hey, buddy Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107728	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it's interesting to hear when the president of HOO says that the Arena Zagreb is one building that is not rentable, and we have five in the Republic of Croatia, probably two in Varazdin, and in Poreč they justified their existence, which means that we could build a large number of smaller sports facilities in which our children and young people today would train. And I think you're absolutely right when you say it's actually a waste of money. And the part where you talk about halls and facilities where athletes train, they're part of public needs. Can you imagine if some club has to pay for the gym they're training in? Well, for me, it's normal for cities to give for their sports clubs for free use of objects owned by these cities. I mean, where would our local clubs go if they still had to pay for it? And you see in Rijeka they don't pay it's very interesting, but it goes to an integral part of the public needs. I think it's a much better variant. Free of charge, our children train in Rijeka for free and I think it's okay because they go to an integral part of the public needs and engage in public needs. ... So ask your mayor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107729	Replication response. Do not throw or go outside from the bench and talk to your colleagues or answer the word. And you colleagues have an argument. Gold Mathesha's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107730	Ms. Representative has now said one important thing and it is really right, and that is that only in practice in sport you have a situation, I'm glad that in Obersnell it probably is not like that, in Zagreb and in most other cities you pay clubs when you train on social infrastructure, you pay games when the European hockey championship in, the Croatian League of hockey must pay to hold these games. There is an excellent interview by Željko Jerkova Rejic where he explains it well by comparing it with the fact that actors have to pay when playing at the theatre. It's the same social infrastructure, it's got an audience, it's got tickets, it's paid up front, they're paid up, and now somebody's got to pay back what they're using. And here I think it would be a big deal if you could go to some kind of solution in this sense that the lady was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107731	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107732	Well, Mr. Matesha said one indifference especially as an economist, the former prime minister, says our discussions on sports TV's dubiosis drive investors. But we started talking about dubiosis after they were created, so where were those investors that didn't come up with these dubiosises? So the dubiosis was created and that's why we're talking about them, but the dubiosis was created because you didn't find investors when you needed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107733	The answer to the replica of Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107734	Your Honor, I'm going to answer so I won't answer because you and I know how it started, which is why it started, we know about some text messages, it's not time or place, I don't want to open it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107735	Sasha Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107736	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's a colleague Jovanovic said about some illogicalities and I won't, I won't repeat my debate today all day. Mr. Matesha, I'd just like you to explain to me how sports television business is affected by the data of 60 million kunas of losses, a year's pay not paid to employees, a year's blocked account, 37 million kunas of credit liabilities, what happens when it's all due to be paid? Here's just financial indicators, non-payments, continued salary growth over the past three years, an increase in the number of employees. Here, I'm no longer going to talk about what you have the right to finance, what you don't have, I think we've said enough about it, but here's what I'd like you to explain to me on the economics how it affects the work of sports television.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107737	The answer to the replica of Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107738	It's not because it's not true. I'm, uh, I'm asking you nicely here in front of the assembly room, be with me one day, go over there, look at all that data, there's no salary growth, but the number of people is down. I mean, please, come with me and take a look, so if I'm wrong, you can say it in any other discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107739	And Zeljko Shamper replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107740	Thank you, Madam Vice President. President Mateša, you said the Croatian Olympic Committee was issuing solutions and everything else was worried about my moving on to another, went away everything... Sportsmen, go all the way to the cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cities or clubs don't have those resources. I believe you remember Željka Orehovec, she was the best representative, world rector and champion. She was getting 50% compared to her teammates because the city or club couldn't realize the solution you betrayed. The second thing you're saying is, no one was against sports television as good intentions because we thought sports television would broadcast everything that's denied us HRT in the last five years, but that didn't happen. HRT is carrying something here and there and you're not carrying anything that would really interest sports fans. You're asking me to say 7 to 10 years needs this project. So how much of a dubiosis would be after 7 or 10 years when in 3 years the loss of 50 million, 15, 22, 21.7. Well, that's inconclusive, I don't know how you're so persistent and stubbornly going through the wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107741	Gold Mathesha's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107742	Dear Representative, it is not my concern to move on to another, so we have nothing to do with it, so suggest the law, you are the legislators who change it. Well, you don't expect us to propose the law, so we're not even authorized to do that. I really don't see the point of you calling us for something that's actually in your jurisdiction. We as part of public authority issue solutions based on sports results and that's it. You, Your Honor, would like to propose a law that makes this a different matter. As for transmissions, attractions and programs, you could not look anywhere in Croatia today, nor Croatian wrestling, nor judo, nor boxing, nor a whole series of athletes could be seen at all because they had no chance, nor will they have any chance of showing up on screens so-called. big TV. We are not interested in the Champions League, or any such competition, so we convey what we are interested in, it is a Croatian sport. And there's no need to in some way, to forgive the expression we mock it, it's unattractive, it's lame, it's our sport, it's our leagues, our national competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107743	We move on to an individual debate, colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107744	Thank you very much, Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Olympic Committee. So here, I'm thinking about how to start this debate, maybe the point is to ask ourselves who will restore the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. public debt of the Republic of Croatia. And he's going to come in at some point to collect as well as these loans from this sports television. So what do we do then? So the state will probably find ways to pay them, probably the Olympic Committee is looking for ways to pay them. But we've already condemned them in advance, but good. I don't know what this debate is, I'm really sorry about what's in the negative atmosphere because it's obvious that the SDP through its available capabilities, which is simply what the Government and the Croatian Parliament want. We can't even have a unique attitude about sports. So there is no area in the Republic of Croatia or the area of social life, anything that can have some kind of unique attitude, really sad. And by applying their criteria to this sports crown, the organisation of Croatian sports is a matter of their principles. It is credibility and it is principled but only for you in the Croatian Olympic Committee. We've recently discussed the review report here, no such credibility and no principle whatsoever. Now, every time the minister comes here with some law and my project, then I'm going to take out the audit report first, ask him what you did on the audit report, there are so many and so many losses, then I'm going to convict him in advance, maybe send budget surveillance to DORH, and then we're going to assess the failure of his project in advance because no one is watching him and most of them are missing. That's the behavior you've been showing around here all day. Because everyone successful in this failed government is a target. You want it from the entrepreneurs, you want it from entrepreneurs who may be connected to our party, HDZ, you want it from the mayor, the mayor of the successful, only being investigated, only something has to be asked. A failed government doesn't wonder what we're going to ask them. Why am I saying that? Last year we discussed it in a similar way, almost two days. And if for the first time maybe it was a coincidence, the second time on the same subject, in the same way, this is intent, pure intent, and someone wants to talk clearly, politicize about this topic, not knowing what it means in the entire report at all, because institutions are probably and independently on this debate, and it probably will bring a court in time, which doesn't mean that whoever might be asked doesn't have the right to say what he thinks about it. As he wrote to the government, every thought she had about what the government had written and why it gave a negative attitude, and we all understand that it is clear that the SDP is trying to reach the top of that roof organization in one way and it is already going on here for four years and not choosing the funds. Because how else do you assess this assessment of sports television and the impact of sports TV on the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia? Of all on the left, he's negative, no segment positive. None. And then we catch the ratings. Here is a colleague, Djurovic, who expressed the ratings of the same Croatian broadcaster according to programmes that have a national concession. What are we going to talk about about the ratings of regional televisions, where is the cost-effectiveness there? Trade companies operate in a way that they can do business. Is everyone in big profits, big profits, but they work. But we've already condemned this in advance. The credits are probably coming back, or they're already paid or they're gonna come for a check, but we know in advance. Of course, then the funds available to the authorities are used. It's sports inspections, budget surveillance, DORH, probably BUSKOK and who doesn't, but I'm just saying for certain. Because if what they object to was applied to the ministry and the institutions of this country where we would end up with the audit, let's say, where it would end. Here's just one example. Project monetization, 50 million kuna. What about 50 million kunas? For three years, we've been talking about it, 17 seconds explaining to the government that giving up this project and it was a great, great project. The beginning and end of the state budget, purposely spent on consultants. A similar way 35 million failed privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank. And imagine that we gave those 85 to athletes. What are we estimating? On one side, success for 100 million kunas, which says service 71 sports alliances, 600 competitors in international competitions, win 333 medals, 277 seats, 263 athletes in development programmes, 70 and more coaches paid. And we put that 100 million kunas on one side and 100 million kunas on the other side. This is the money thrown into the well, but that's great, there's no principle of credibility, responsibility, credibility. What are we going to send budget surveillance there? But here, here we have a problem with sports television, and there we'll send everyone who can check it out. And instead of providing an opportunity for this sport to really be a glorious part of this beautiful part of ours to spread through small screens, we conclude that we simply don't need it because why is that sports TV rock a distraction at all? Is it the desire of politics or is it simply a question of our reality, i.e. The presence of sports on television. Here's a colleague from the Retirement Party who's watching TV and can't find any known, no sport he likes and he doesn't want to watch it. And then we turn the other channels of national television, there's almost no sport at all. Let's be honest, what are we looking at on HRT? Wednesday's champions' league, a few basketball games, a rest, we look at the world and European championships in sports football, basketball, water polo, handball, then we look at a possible handball game if Zagreb plays and we stop there, almost. We can't watch the football league on HRT. You can look elsewhere then, what, a summary on Sunday nights of all goals? Great. For a billion and something kuna, nothing is disputed, and this world and European championships every two, every four years, the Olympics every four years. So every year, 15, 20 days of some top-notch sport that you can follow, and let's just say for the football world in Brazil, tens of millions of kunas from that same HRT and we all watched it, although there are other TVs and you can do it there. But then why are we putting one story on one side, and on the other side we forgive another story. I didn't hear a debate like this when we had a report on HRT's work. Negative by and by the Supervisory Board, resignations that have rained, re-elections. For what? There weren't any stories like this, because there's politics there. Who cares about sports? And why can't we, here's a game of cups today you can, we have two good, top-of-the-line games, where will you look at them? It's a Croatian cup. If you have a subscription, you have to buy another game in particular today. I understand if someone doesn't want to give me, say, real Madrid and Barcelona on a package like that, but they don't give us a Croatian cup. So everything became a question of certain lobbies, a group that directs viewers just so that something must be bought over and over again, and then they establish in the SDP that no one is watching the games. Well, there are people who don't go to games, and they're gonna watch it on TV. Why do you think parents don't want to see their kid who's doing sports somewhere and sports TV? So let's be honest, they want and they look at it, but let's not make it possible, and let's not have any irregularities, and maybe we can tie it to the ratings and explain how it needs to be lifted because nobody's looking at it, because we're going to have to end a lot more if we're going to put it as a criterion. And this debate really didn't bring about what it was supposed to bring today. This is a unique opportunity for us to talk about sports. Only a report from the Croatian Olympic Committee and possibly when the Sport Act comes we can talk about sports. Everything else has no sport. And then we get on sports television for two days. And why aren't we talking about infrastructure? Why aren't we talking about sports infrastructure? Why don't we talk about how it's impossible today to build a hall worth 15 million kunas or with European funds, or with any available resources in this country. Let's just ask ourselves how many have been built over the past three years? None. For what? Well, the funds don't even let us finance it anymore if it's worth more than 15 million kuna. Where were we? So just because we don't have a complete solution? So why wouldn't this television become a part of HRT service? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] And that's the area to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107745	Thank you very much. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107746	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I thought your debate would be about sports again, and yet we started discussing television. So now that we're going to talk about television, then I would really ask you one thing, so why is it so important in our lives and in our sports. And to solve one situation about it. In the view of the Government, it is defined that after these dubiosiss, who has had losses and how much responsibility there is you are given that that company fulfils all the conditions for the launch of bankruptcy. And who can launch the bankruptcy? A bankruptcy can be triggered by a believer or by a debtor. So the question after all of this is, first of all, the debtor just needs to confirm the legal person that he's insolvent, that they couldn't pay their obligations, taxes, taxes and other things. This shows they're not. So I wonder why no bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated until now?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107747	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107748	Are we going to initiate this procedure in the Parliament? Well, we probably won't go through this debate. Who am I to ask you now why the factory of engines and cranes in Rijeka does not launch bankruptcy proceedings? They haven't paid their salaries in a few months. ... They're state-owned firms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how can there be one rule, one law, and here it can be worth another rule. Well, that's what we're talking about. It's credibility, responsibility and principles. If the government will, then let's set an example, but it can't be worth one thing to one another, and then we're dealing with these discussions here. Then let's be honest with each other and let's be honest. Right? But the government won't, and they won't, especially in the election year. And this is a company. I haven't read here yet that they haven't paid their dues. Now we hear some other data on the other side that we don't have. It's like that old times, and someone doesn't, and I'd like to read them too so I might have a different opinion. But they're gone. We read what is on our Web site or in the written material that we have received. And that's why we have every right to suspect that this is about something else. And here's the ones who don't get that paper, yours and our members. And that's the question. Here's when fellow Gjurkovic sat down in the salon, the white salon of Hajduka he entered and left his CNS card outside, he entered then as a citizen. And he resents a political engagement to propose the Sports Act. I'm not against it, let everyone do it. But then let's evaluate ourselves. Well, he can't be president of the tennis league if he's great from the HNS, if he happens to be in HDZ right now. So these people with some kind of careers are behind them. Well, no one came there because someone took it out of somewhere and put it on because it has a one-party membership card. Well, try your best in your midst and do something in those clubs. So there are ways and procedures to come, but not through politics at the very top to talk about sports the way we talk about it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107749	Sasha Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107750	Thank you, Madam Vice President. With your debate, you have made a major contribution to solving the problem of sports in the Republic of Croatia today. I listened to her very carefully, and she's as classy as any of your discussions. Now I'll give you a replica the way you conduct the debate. You said there was no principle, consistency and credibility on our part, because in this way we didn't discuss when we discussed the findings of the State Audit. So I'm now asking you why you didn't when the State Audit find was being discussed, let's say, the head of your municipality of Lopar, who was raising funds from the municipal budget, gave himself loans without arguments and insinuation, and then when the State Review caught him, he started returning it and said he had to raise it, because he had to buy some documents on black that would help the municipality in some kind of litigation. Well, there's consistency, credibility, principle, etc. So what do we do now? That's how you argue. And what do we do now, why didn't you discuss it then? Then you would be trustworthy. You could've talked about your community chief and said, "Here's what's wrong with what we're doing down there. But okay. is to call the ministries etc. And that's okay. And it should be called out, for every irregularity should be called out. But just what you resent us looking at our own like this, someone else's doing just that. And you're the one who's been lying a hundred times a day becomes the truth. He's just attacking others. You tell me I wouldn't do it to you, that's the policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107751	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107752	The work of a certain chief and my municipalities will be taken care of by the institutions do not worry. Everyone's been informed, I'm not worried. And I didn't argue because I wasn't here that day if you noticed, and if I did, I would mention the city of Rijeka and their findings of the audit and the 50 million kunas they hold in their account and the funds of the state budget are from the sold apartments of the protected tenants, so that that tax or budget surveillance goes into their budget and see why they keep them there and don't direct them to the state budget, then they would have been listed. If they had started a project to build a museum of contemporary art and library, they had spent 30 million kuna on it and moved to another location. Is that what it says there if you read it? But it's the city of Rijeka, if we understand each other. And now you should ask what budget surveillance is doing, DORH and all the other bodies, you understand? And I'm not going to put 200, 300 thousand kuna in relation to 80 million kuna, you understand? But if you think we should be open about anything. I'm not ashamed. I don't care. I'm not scared. Because we need to get some things cleaned up. And this, principledness, credibility, I spoke in action, not in speech. You're very in the speech very principled and you keep hitting on one side, but when it comes back, it has to come back sometimes and be ready for it. So, you warn your colleague Obersnel not to do it anymore, at least you understand? Because it's not correct because these are state budget funds and they're going to have to ask somebody why they're not in the state budget. And the state budget can't just find 50 million kunas. Then what will the city of Rijeka look like? Well, that'll be problematic then. And this gentleman, he will be discussed when the time comes and the institutions say what they have to say, if that bothers you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107753	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107754	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I had no intention of a replica, and I didn't answer for the word anyway, but your surprise for today's debate by the SDP club offered me. So can't you see that more of today's replica came from the SDP club than for the one-month session of the Parliament on any wheel including the Republic of Croatia's Budget. It turns out that there are no more important things in the Republic of Croatia for our SDP colleagues than sports television and we will discuss this for three days for two HOO reports. It is interesting, for example, that the SDP club does not mind that big, important things in Croatian society and republics happen, and we do not discuss them as parliamentary representatives. You just mentioned monetization, the cost of monetization of 50 million kuna. If we hadn't launched a referendum on that monetization, we wouldn't have discussed it at all. We were just discussing whether or not to refer to the Constitutional Court. We are not discussing the privatisation of HZ Carg, which has failed infamously, the privatisation of Croatian airlines, the privatisation of airports. We did not discuss in the Assembly the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, although the entire Croatian public is buzzing, etc., etc. So obviously, the SDP needs this debate in order to cover the policy out of the sport itself into politics and sport. And that was the intention of today's debate, which I said was quite well prepared because this many replicas have not been given in the Croatian Parliament in the past two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107755	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107756	I agree with my colleague Bacic because, as he would say, Minister Varga, we are only working on economic issues. These are economic topics and we regularly absorb them through the Parliament's agenda. When you look at the Parliament's agenda, no one would conclude for Croatia that we are in an excessive deficit procedure, that something in this country is going wrong, that we have problems, that in Croatia we live badly, that people simply don't see any more ways to live in this country than they are looking for exits from this country. To question now everything that's been created for 25 years, to make it all too much for us. Here's a little sports TV becoming a nation's problem. And just because it's free, no one pays for it. And that's our problem. But when we give 80 kuna to HRT and we don't get any almost sports content, everyone shuts up, all right. Because we can't recognize it as a problem of society, but we're not even able to recognize it. So let's be principled or credible to the end, and then when we're saying something that we want to solve, we can work it out. But don't play games like this under the table, just some of them have some information. Mixing 2014, 2013 Now we're discussing 2013 and now we're listening there something was in the 11th month of 2014 etc. There's probably something already in 2015, we'll find out maybe next year. So it just means the question of how we want to put responsibility as something that politics should deal with in this House, in the government and at the level of the entire state. But then here's what you said. There's a replica. There's a report as much as we want. And only what light we have and these are Croatian athletes because here we do not have too much influence on what we would like to do there, and the time of coming down from power quickly comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107757	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107758	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, all the time, colleagues on this right side of the assembly are saying there's no politics here. However, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the HRT report is that you see this here. And the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the HOO Report you have that hill of pages and 90% of that material is exclusively on sports television. Now I'm curious, first of all, what body wrote this review on the report? Is that what the Treasury was doing? Was it the Ministry of Science and Sports or who was doing it? But we say there's no politics. Look, it's always been known if a report doesn't pass, then it's an argument that whoever submits the report is removed. However, those gentlemen who wrote their comments on the HoO report unmistakably did not know the technique of how the leaders of the HoO were elected, that it was a procedure like any other, and that what could not happen there. And of course when we discussed the HRT Report, the only one who mentioned little about finance were some people from HDZ, and no one else. But today, finances are a dominant topic. A great fellow EVO TV doesn't matter. It's like funding mail. Yes, but at this point, the government is telling me that it's saving the state budget from 19 billion kuna deficits by withdrawing profits from public companies. So the post office is a public company, that they didn't blow $200 million on EVO TV now the government could withdraw that 200 million and could have had a smaller deficit for it. But, of course, it is not important for the government or colleagues of the ruling coalition that Croatian citizens pump up billions and 300 million annually in national television and do not benefit from it. So these two views by the government are a clear indication that the government is keen to politically resolve the HoO leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107759	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107760	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Schuker, we know from the HACOM report how many connections we have, it means Internet TV protocol, we know how many MAX TV connections, VIP packages, etc. Here's the TV, we know. It's half the households in the Republic of Croatia over. Why did such a number of subscriptions go anyway? Well, when we have digital television, we all see more or less. They went because people wanted to watch something on TV maybe different from what they were offered through national concessions and many took the package. In order to watch sports you must spend at least 140 kuna a month that is not small. Subscribe to HRT plus 60 kuna at least sports package, so there are various tariffs, sport plus package and another 15 kuna etc. to watch sports. And then what bothers us is what's free, what's free, what we don't give a penny, it bothers us so much and we don't want to look at it because we don't see it as politicians in the Parliament. I watch, say, watch when I have the opportunity to look. Why not? But a lot of people have a problem with that. And then we hear today that the mail in his balance sheet isn't being financed from the state budget, which isn't true. 100 million kuna were obtained from the state budget that for universal services and they have the right to obtain this under the law on Croatia's post office. Because it works only on the market because, if I agree correctly, the only ones have to deliver at certain times, certain destinations, etc. That we don't explain any further. So they're being funded. And now I should say as my SDP colleagues say budgetary surveillance, are you with that $100 million money that you got for another service something you gave for another project that might be bad? But where are we going, shall we keep the Croatian mail? So we want to save, so we want to save this, but give us a way to see how we can, offer solutions, not DORH, and some kind of action. We offer solutions and there are possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107761	Thank you. Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107762	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Boric, at the very beginning you said I don't know how to begin my individual debate and who will repay the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. True, if I recall your question from the current hour when you told the prime minister that it was a deficit of 18 or 19 billion kuna, or a total public debt of nearly 300 billion kuna, then he tried to make a joke and tell you that you didn't have the right information and that you actually didn't read it well. The fact is that in this situation in which we are present and in this deficit of nearly 19 billion kuna and a total public debt of 300 billion kuna should be the top topic in the Republic of Croatia, that is, all the media should count on it, but this should be talked about by social partners, however, it hides maximum media that people do not talk about it and then there is this report of the HOO, the financial report and this should be the top topic, and sports television should be the biggest problem of the Croatian nation, which is not and should not be true. The SDP was tasked by the government of Croatia to speak negatively about this report so that Friday would not accept it and it is actually the only truth about this report. And as for the constant mention of what we really need to talk about in the Croatian Parliament and the bad economic situation as well as this deficit, or public debt, turns out to be a prayerful request from the SDP, you HDZs don't say that because it's depressing us, in fact that it's only in the gable, or that your repetition is further frustrating us. We have to because that's not what those should talk about, so we have to be here at the Croatian Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107763	And Josip Boric's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107764	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Babic, I don't want to frustrated them, I just want to speak the way I think it's necessary in this house, and whether it's nice or not, it's an impression issue and let the citizens judge it in the elections. You were talking about the current clock, and it's a picture and an opportunity for Croatian politics, we ask questions, we don't get answers, we get every part of some underestimation, you ask the prime minister if you have your debt projection if you don't trust the economist, he says that when we get funding from the HDZ budget, if you remember the answer, it's dirty money, when SDP gets the budget money, then it's clean money, and we also finance ourselves from the same budget, but it's a good question of impression. What my colleague Shuker said today in the opening five minutes when we talked about the deficit, we became the state of the wrong methodology and these methodologies are applied through the system of repression, and the prosecution system is applied in different ways, and the same methodologies, as in statistics. If our production growth Office of Statistics is good, if the growth of guarantees or public debt Office of Statistics is creamy. And so we will come to the end of this term and in this election year everyone will say everything they have, but the problems remain and do not resolve. And we find the problem here's Sports Television, we're almost as a nation gone because of it, but there's no agenda topics except a little agriculture, let's look at the agenda, gentlemen dear. It's an election year, everything's nice, flowers, we're just all happy and the best government we've ever had in history as the recent prime minister said, and what do we have in general to wonder about? And everyone, 80% of citizens don't support that government at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107765	Thank you. My colleagues, Nadica Jelash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107766	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I will focus my debate on the financial part of this report, because I have only one intention to contribute as little as I can to the problems that have been seen and which are presented in the report begin to be eliminated. And when we discuss the HoO report in such a way, then I don't think it's a political haranga like he wants to impose or say the opposition, but that it's a constructive way to regain their responsibility, that problems need to be discussed in order to get them solved. And here's where I personally see the problem when it comes to HoO finance. In 2013, HoO made total revenues of 109.2 million kuna and total expenditure of 109.5 million kuna, resulting in a lack of revenue in the amount of I will say a symbolic 350,000 kuna. I said symbolic because in the previous 2012 there was a lack of revenue of 7.5 million kuna, but that deficit was then covered by the transferred surplus income from earlier years. Of course, this lack of revenue from symbolic as I said 350,000 kuna will also be covered by the transferred surplus income of 2012. And speaking of 2012 then I'm going to say that it's completely out of the ordinary, I'm just mentioning it as a fus note as an add-on, so it's completely unusual that annual reports don't show any parallel data for the previous year. I also last year, when we discussed the HOO report, pointed out this lack, that, with the planned column, data for the previous year are to be provided, in particular if it is 2013 as the year of the report, that it is given in parallel and in 2012, so obviously there is no desire for those reports to be completed for the base year. But let's go back to losing. I said that the loss in 2013 is symbolic, but symbolism is becoming a very serious matter if it is taken into account that in 2013 HOO demonstrated outstanding liabilities of €5.5 million. In other words, the actual minus is not so symbolic but is very serious and amounts to 5.7 million kuna. So the problem is even more serious when it comes to the fact that it is mainly about the denied transfers of national sports alliances. Therefore, HOO has high outstanding debts to national alliances even though it has received from the state budget all planned funds to fully meet these programmes. There is, therefore, no funding for national alliances, which is the core activity of the HOO, but it is used to finance sports TV, trying to convince us that Sports TV is financed by its own resources. However, when compared, it is clear that these own funds are absolutely insufficient and that the debts of Sports TV will once I will say a megalomanical project that is suitable for some better, better times that these debts will be covered by Croatian citizens. In this context, I must say the very interesting point of view of the HOO that it is possible to dispose of its own resources autonomously, without any necessary appropriate decisions by the competent authorities, while at the same time creating significant losses by taxpayers. And I'll say a few words about the audits done, so as far as those internal audits and the supervisory board are concerned, but also those commercial ones, I don't see them particularly objective and no wonder they're positive. In addition, I must point out that the commercial audit which this report refers to is 2012 and here we are talking about the 2013 report. So the commercial audit doesn't prove anything and doesn't confirm anything. The report itself says that the 2013 revision will be made, i.e. it is likely to be made in 2014. In my view, external audits are far more relevant, so the State Office for the Audit of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are finally more relevant, and the fact is that these audits differ from the commercial ones that their findings are different and are not without objections and certain orders. Thus, among other things, the Ministry of Finance states to the HOO that the budget rebalance must be brought by the end of the calendar year or budget year, which I personally warned about when last year we discussed the 2012 report when the rebalancing was adopted five months after the end of the calendar year, and when President Mateša assured us that this was the procedure that was allowed and which was correct. And it's no problem to say I'm just going to say the time of rebalancing because I think it's a more problematic way of bringing rebalancing, and the same story is repeated in this year's report. Therefore, the rebalancing is carried out by waiting for the execution and recording of all expenditure for the current year and then the revenues are planned at the level necessary to cover the expenditure incurred. In other words, it determines exactly how much revenue it takes to equalise the expenditure achieved and thus there are no deviations. If we look at this report in the table on the structure of expenditure there is also something amazing, let's say in the lip are planned salaries, then contributions, official travel, professional training of workers, compensation for the costs of official travel, I think it's amazing that at the moment the plan is adopted you can know in lip how much the costs of official travel will be. And in the end, I will only conclude that no one today, I think and I am convinced, has disputed in this assembly the merits of the Croatian Olympic Development Committee and the achievements of Croatian sport. So these achievements and merits have just been emphasized. However, when we evaluate the business, the financial operations of the Croatian Olympic Committee then we must be critical because otherwise this report and all other similar reports come before the Croatian Parliament. So they come precisely to say what is good, to praise it, and to point out what is not good to change it. Finally, the Croatian Olympic Committee is not a village association of cheerleaders, as I said last year, with the fact that I do not mean to insult the Association of Majorets. The Croatian Olympic Committee is the highest national NGO sports association whose annual budget is over 100 million kuna. With more than 90% of this budget being alimony from the state register, therefore from taxpayers' funds and this is the biggest reason why we have the right to seek the highest, therefore absolutely the greatest responsibility of the Croatian Olympic Committee for the legal and responsible spending of the funds of these taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107767	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107768	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, you spoke of this report and of the financial aspect. And you can see recently here in the Croatian Parliament, and already secondly, on the Media Committee was the principal director of Croatian television, which challenges us MPs in the Croatian Parliament the right to even know the salaries of employees on Croatian television and not only salaries but also what goes on pay and what is secret, so on. secret contracts. He claims on the Media Committee that salaries are secret on Croatian television and Croatian television is financed exclusively from the fee paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So how can something that is financed from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be a secret and should be a secret? It's all clear here, so we have full insight into everything here, even if these results are as you say they are, and from which point of view you are looking at it, but at least we have that report. Try from Mr. Chief Director of Croatian Television to get any financial report. And here we discussed and poured the bile about it. He doesn't have a shift, he doesn't think he's changing or trying to do anything. And in my debate which, I will follow, I will set a number of other examples in connection with this. I'm saying, I'm not defending anyone, but I think there's too much dust going on and it's tendingly, intentionally and even maliciously, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion is negative. And we also see a WHO response to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107769	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107770	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, in fact, you are not the first I have heard in this assembly today that compares the business of Croatian broadcasting with business, i.e. with the operation of Sports Television established by the Croatian Olympic Committee. So as for the salaries and reactions of the Parliament to that report delivered to us by the director of Croatian Radio Television, you know very well that we, together with you and everyone else, supported that this report has been complemented because it was, I will say openly rudely against the parliamentary representatives. However, the fact is also that we do not know what salaries are on sports television or on the Croatian Olympic Committee's end line. There's no such thing as that. And it would be good to have them. So there can be no secret salaries on Croatian broadcasting and it is not good that secret salaries are on the Croatian Olympic Committee. And what I want to re-absorb, especially, is not the intention of these discussions from our club to relieve Mr. President of the Matesh Olympic Committee. So here is debated exclusively with good intentions, with the intention of detecting shortcomings, irregularities and illegalities to remove and to remove the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee as a roof sports organisation in this country and to be transparent and to benefit all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107771	Thank you. The next replica is her distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107772	Thank you. A good part of your debate you have devoted to the fiscal responsibility of each of the users of the state budget to be responsible for managing the funds in accordance with the law. And that part of the debate I understand quite well, and it's pretty close to me and I'd love to have that consistency with you really recognized in these four years. And we would understand it and I would support it in the case of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but unfortunately this consistency never existed during the term of office of this government. So your government, your majority, you're incentivists of fiscal total irresponsibility to taxpayers' money. You are, so look at every draft of your budget that... The growth of 3% of GDP and the deficit of for example 5, at the end of the year we have a 1% drop, deficit 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have, we pass laws as the highest, as the highest law, and that's the state budget, we fall, we fall in percentages, we fall in billions of kunas, and we don't go into any sequencings. Is that what you're going over to all the users of the state budget? At the beginning of this government's mandate, I asked you why this government shot 50 million kunas in a strange, form of capitalization of the Center of the Bank, there was no answer. That was 50 million kunas. They were thrown into the wind. Asked why this government bought 200 million kunas of official cars and vehicles in the same strange interactions there was no answer. Why did this government do this, so it shoots everywhere, on all sides, all four years and now you find the wrong Drina on the Croatian Olympic Committee. Now that's what I'm experiencing as a consecration of your inconsistency, and that's why I can't trust you in this particular case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107773	Thank you. Answer, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107774	So, co-worker Djurovic, as far as managing fiscal responsibility and consistency is concerned, the consequences will be political. Our citizens will decide whether we were fiscally responsible or not and how irresponsible we were. And as for the shooting of certain funds into certain projects, you specifically instructed some examples, and the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee himself, Mr Matesha, said about half an hour ago, it will only be seen whether the funds invested in Sports TV will be rentable or not. Let's time this project, so he mentioned 2017 as that year when it should be seen that this project is profitable. So give us time to see if some of the moves we've been making are good or bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107775	Thank you. The word will now be taken by the proposing representative, the esteemed Zlatko Mateša, president of the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107776	Your Honor, I will only remain in this financial section. Namely, two things in your debate that don't match the real state, no offense whatsoever. The first is Croatian sport, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Committee is not financed by taxpayers or from general tax revenues. Croatian sport is funded from gambling, so it is funded by all those who play lottery, buy luckys, bookies and other things. These are not general tax revenues. Don't be angry, I let you know a little bit about it, yet I spent 11 years on one side or the other. Secondly, when you refer to it as some transferred asset, hence the outstanding liabilities of 5 million and something, please as a known financial asset, consider that it is a fund that is charged until 31 December and that is balanced in January. There is a letter from the Ministry of Finance, signed by Minister Linic, that x times we return to the same topic where he says exactly for this year that we say, during 2013, according to the part of the gambling revenue, the plan was 100 million 364.354 kuna and in 2013, 112 million 596 thousand 313 kuna were collected, meaning that 25 million 860 thousand 930 kuna was transferred from 2013 to 2014, which means that we are in plus 20 million kuna. I can give you this memo that's more than clear, and I don't think it's a problem for you to take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107777	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107778	Yes, and well that you have reminded Mr. Mateša, it is quite selectively organised, depending on the law to the law, from the institution to the institution, at all, whose annual reports will be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. So there is a decision from some time before me that there is obviously an annual debate on the annual report of the Croatian Parliament. There is no discussion on the annual report of many financial social and inclusive and larger consumers, such as budget money and such as the Croatian Olympic Committee. And when it comes to those who have legally defined revenue from something such as the Croatian Olympic Committee has games of chance, for example, we could also discuss ZAMP. Every year, they also have not a small income, but the legislator did not provide that, for example, in ZAMP every year to submit a report on work because they also make 100 million, 70 million kunas of income per service, the law allowed them to do so, a private association that does not actually fit in the Croatian Parliament in any way, and is incomeing from many and many in this country, cannot bypass it. So the interesting thing is that selectivity. In this term of this government we have established a whole series of agencies and institutions that are very large budget users, but of course the legislators have actually wisely transferred not only management powers but also responsibility to the ministries in order to say the work of these agencies and these institutions would not appear before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107779	Thank you. Now we'll continue the individual debate. It is now up to the honourable representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107780	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, I couldn't tell you the replica, but in connection with ZAMP, the vow of silence, about the indiscriminateness of the report in this Croatian Parliament, it was that the Croatian Parliament did not take over, but not by its own will, of course, but by the decision of the ministers and the Government to oversee many agencies, offices, committees and I don't know what it was, there are 250 and they don't give reports here in the Croatian Parliament about their business. But what we do know is when we compare some of the losses of sports television, so look, it might have a good will to patch up, let's say 1742 cars plus spare tires, so set 400 million. You said 200, 400 million kuna, that was last year. Here's to designing license plates, a contest that was annulled, wasted in the wind 43,000 kuna plus will be a lawsuit and compensation for damage to the lawsuit. So then for the master plan of Croatian hospitals the Serbian-French corporation a million-and-a-half kuna or 200 thousand euros. So then for monetizing Croatian highways thrown into the wind 10, for consulting I speak, 10 million kuna. Well then for the use of the aircraft needlessly, we know about the foreign minister's case, so ironing the State Card of the Minister of Culture, so the plan of outsourcing which was also paid to the consulting firm is not known exactly how many millions or hundreds of thousands of kunas. So, for example, Croatian waters have spent since 2012 on education, education of their staff, 100,000 euros. Look out, people have worked in Croatian waters before, but they have spent 100,000 euros on human resources training in Croatian waters. I guess by then they didn't even know what water was, so they had to teach them it was H2O. I don't know why they spent it there. But here is the game Future – Cedevita, Croatian TV like the one you should probably follow Croatia's champion in basketball not. Home TV feeds, so here. No games other than home games here in Zagreb that have been played have been transmitted, the DOMA TV broadcasts. What was I gonna say? When you go anywhere, you were in Vietnam the other day, when they ask you where you came from, if you were in a town in Hanoi whether or not I don't know, any other city you say from Croatia. Well, people there are scratching their heads a little bit from Croatia, Croatia. Yeah? And if you mention Shuker, everyone will know where you're from. I was in Indonesia, so they said, and Shuker, yes, yes. That's what they know about Croatia. Not this Shuker here, but this HNS president present. I'm saying, I'm sorry, sir, this isn't on purpose, but we're saying, no, just to clarify the matter. So, when I read the Croatian Olympic Committee, the government's opinion on the Croatian Olympic Committee report was as if I had watched and read the State Audit Report on the Croatian Government's ministries. All of what is mentioned in the State Audit Report was stated by the Government in the Report on the Croatian Olympic Committee, but quite all, as outlined. As a melem on the wound came to me this response of the Croatian Olympic Committee in which some things were clarified. You may be a supporter of the government's opinion, and some others may be a supporter of the other opinion. Somewhere we should find the real truth and actually trust someone. Mostly for Croatian sport, what stands out is a hundred million kunas when we see the redundancies for Croatian television paid by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia had a pension of 1500 or I don't know how much, when we know that pensioners who pay 80 kuna also regularly. So paying taxes to Croatian television is 96% neat, so it's done neatly. And then we see that this sports program and what Croatian television offers us from sports, but nothing at all. Sports television I wouldn't say coming in, it's a child being born, it's still in diapers. How much is it? Two, three, four years, I don't know, so then we can watch like that. We have a promise, the only thing we're going to do is put our faith in that promise that this television is still going to stop or we won't. Finally, the International Olympic Committee supports and the International Olympic Committee is considering and forming actually Olympic television. So, we copy everything from Europe, bring everything alive. Europe orders us in Brussels what we will do with excise duties, etc. But if the Croatian Olympic Committee copied to say or take something from the International Olympic Committee, that's not good. And all the measures Brussels prescribes when we apply them here, that's fine. That's what Brussels prescribed for us, that's what we have to do. We don't have to do this, although the International Olympic Committee has, therefore, agreed and encouraged actually sports television in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know why we're spreading so much bile here. After all, someone here said, I think colleague Jelish is an NGO, an NGO sports association. Therefore, here in Parliament we are discussing, and much greater consumers have escaped both parliamentary control and parliamentary debate, and are under the authority of ministers or under the authority of the entire government. I will not now list which agencies and offices are thus financed, and we cannot in any way get the data we in the Croatian Parliament on their business. Here's tonight again, this Champions' League or the champion's already popular name. There is an opportunity on our Croatian TV on the second program to watch, although I am watching Black Rose at the time. But it doesn't matter. We're gonna watch that game. I don't know any more of those two. To learn Turkish on the way, yes, yes, yes. Karadjul is said in Turkish, Karajul. Yeah. So, about the costs or what Mr Jovanovic said of the sport, 2.2 billion are being allocated throughout Croatia, so local. So I know the local club in Slavonski Brod Marsonia spends on water to soak grass at the stadium 100 thousand euros a year, 700 and another thousand kuna. Is that what you're adding up to two billion and two hundred thousand if you're counting? For the Arena Zagreb 50 million kuna. Of course I'm not happy with the cost of building those five so-called. The handball arena, primarily, was then to be spent in Osijek 100m euros for the Osijek Hall, and only 230m were spent because the HDSSB prevented the crime that was being prepared at the time. But we cannot transfer to the back of the Croatian Olympic Committee all those 2 billion and 200 million kunas. So it is not that the Croatian Olympic Committee spins 2 billion and 200 million kuna. In the hope that there will be better times, so that there may be more sponsors and donors, that they may start Croatia's lottery better, although it's hard to look for it, and that filling the budget and income sides of the HOO, and thus also the benefits of athletes and the results of sports that I said to us in the opening part of my presentation when you go anywhere in the world where they don't even know where Croatia is, but for Schuker as the best shooter of the World Cup of Football know, they know. They say Suker does, don't they? And it is not only for Shuker but also for a number of other athletes whom Croatia boasts, pride and heart play when we watch them on TV and when we hear about the successes of our athletes in the world. In any case, regardless of this report, and toss about the government's assessment, then the Board's reviews and the HoO's return letters to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in fact, it's almost impossible for us to discuss 2013 today, I support the work of the HoO in the hope that Croatia will, regardless of the poverty of young people and athletes, and whatever the share of the money spent on sports in Croatia is far less than in some other countries, mainly in the EU, America, etc. that we will continue to enjoy the results of our athletes in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107781	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of your exhibit has caused three replicas. I hope not about the black rose. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107782	Certainly not about the black rose. What if I sit down now, what would you say to me? I'm kidding. [[Invadica Grubišić: Sit down.]] So, you've been as surprised as many before at the fact that we're discussing the annual report on the work of the HOO. It is not a legal obligation, and the Parliament does not need to discuss it at all. I've talked about it a few times. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on sports states that the Croatian Parliament should discuss the implementation of the public needs programme in sport. But there are doorknobs 22, the Croatian Parliament has never adopted a public needs programme in sport and should bring it every year when the state budget is adopted. The programme of public needs in sport is being adopted on a proposal from the Olympic Committee. And if we had established a public needs programme in sport as does any city or county or any local unit that finance sports, then we would have discussed how what we planned was done. And that's the point, not the Annual Work Report and nothing like this. Then we wouldn't even have this debate about whether sports television is a public need or not because we would have determined whether or not it is. And this is actually a rather bizarre situation and almost unique about the state. So, to get public money is to give someone and do what you want without predetermining a public needs programme. The Parliament discusses those reports when to give someone public authority or when to give someone to do a job on her behalf. This is specifically the case here about sports which he gave to the Sport Act but this Parliament must determine each year when budgeting through a public-needs programme. And yes, we do not need to discuss the Annual Report of the Olympic Committee, but rather the programme of public needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107783	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107784	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I should not have sat down because I was harder to get up but like this, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia there is an item for sports television. Who voted that budget? The ruling coalition. What about me? So by 2016 you have in the budget it says here, I saw that it says here in the materials that it says so. So who voted that? Who voted for the budget? Well, the opposition didn't vote for the budget, did you? Now I'm surprised at you at all. And I'm in favour of how you defined it, so to define the needs of sport now we can't do it for 2015 anymore, it's over in 2015, it's half a year, so it's half a year before the election. But while you're already dragging me by the tongue then I'll tell you something, you were present here when the Minister of Economy presented the Strategy for Industrial Development of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. Did we discuss that? How long was the Minister of Economy here in the Croatian Parliament? 4.5 minutes and 2 seconds. Introduce exposure, that's right. And he never showed up again. And now you tell me do we follow every year how the Industrial Development Strategy of Croatia is implemented? Come on! Who's asking us to use hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea here? No one's asking us. When we're looking for a break in Parliament then says Mr. President or I don't know who the chairman is again looking for a break. So how do we discuss it? So I think you understand me very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107785	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107786	Thank you. You have well pointed out how little time we've actually talked about Croatia's sport today, and how much Croatian sport is actually worth for Croatian society and how much I think it's really worth always mentioning for a small, small but really small country of a small nation how much Croatian sport actually has passed through the name of that small country and small nation and actually made this small nation and this small nation recognizable around the world, precisely through the success of Croatian athletes. And instead of actually pointing that out, let's see if it can be improved, so if you want to take advantage of the opportunity and also mention our numerous, numerous not only those at the top but also in many other sports many very, very successful Croatian athletes in different sports we actually use this time and this whole day to talk about several tens of millions of kunas of one television, one project. He succeeded, failed, I think it is actually a relatively one big bite even for, not even a big financial bite, and it is a pity that we did not actually take advantage of this day at all, perhaps even we in opposition from the authorities are certain to dedicate it in some way to Croatian sport and problems, but also to the results that Croatian sport actually brings in both this year and previous years both on the dike and on the glory of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107787	Thank you. And now we have a replica of the esteemed, I'm sorry I didn't see, I didn't even hesitate to have the esteemed representative answer just ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for having a little chat with your associates, so you haven't seen. But I didn't want to wake up the rest of them by banging the plate. Therefore, I mentioned a case that I personally experienced in Indonesia when I said that Croatia, at the flea market, I like to enter among people so when I mentioned Croatia they didn't know and we started a little bit about football and then, even though Indonesia is not some kind of power in football or it applies in the world as some kind of football, some kind of fanaticism as in other other countries. But certainly out of 250 million people in Indonesia, here is the Shuker name by which they recognize Croatia, and also ours to say those gambling uniforms that we played in back then. Here's the other day, Snow White won two medals with an air rifle in the cannon, here's to ask who knows? Here's Boric because we're following the sport and Shuker knows. And about the popularity of these sports far east taeqwondo and this other, so there's best sports television and promotions, martial arts, so I don't say those, or even sports that are exotic to which many don't even know about. Turn Sports TV around and you'll see a lot of sports where competitions are held. Al Jazeera, but Jazeera is a very respectable television station. So, what's your problem? Therefore, I thank my colleague Đurović for your replica, which you have actually confirmed what I said in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107789	Thank you. And now the opportunity for replica will be given to the distinguished representative Ana Comparić-Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague you encouraged me when you said that, I say that you encouraged me to lift up your replica the moment you said that Marsonia pays 100,000 kunas of water only for, euro only for water and for moisture and for the irrigation of lawns. Well, then I have to admit that I'm very happy to come from a city where I live and work and run a sports club because that city is all sports facilities and infrastructure I'm sportingly maintained and all sports clubs that are on public money on the city's budget that have gone through the public needs of these facilities are using absolutely free of charge. Of course it's not free, of course it costs the city, but the sports club is, for the sports club, it's free. So, it seems to me that it makes sense because if the facilities were built public money from the city budget and if some club passed it on public needs again from the city budget then it's absolutely absurd that the city gives money that it later takes to charge for the use of the clock hall. I mean, what we have in the river is actually only logical and normal. And that's why I think it's true that all the other mayors, the mayors, could look up to that example and change their attitude towards sport a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107791	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107792	Of course I do, I'm so glad I inspired you, as much as I remember you saying so, right? That my speech inspired you? a encouraged, and well that's it. [[Intruder: Intended]] We can and we can stimulate, we can do whatever you want. So, as for the water at the stadium in Slavonski Brod, that bill was never paid to understand each other, the accounts were laid out but the club never had any money and then I asked the mayor why we, I was the chairman of the Water Control Board and I told the water manager why Marsonia didn't pay us water, because it's a great length of 100,000 euros a year, 700 thousand kuna? And he says, I asked the mayor, is that the City of Slavonski Brod firm and he said listen, they're our players, our club and how to charge them. And he says do the math. And that's how the bill was done, she never paid Marsonia. But I do know that the debt was 100,000 euros in water. But on the other hand, I was also president of the women's basketball club Brod, that's what he called himself, who was playing in the first league, they told you you were a parliamentary representative, it's good to be president, I was not a president, I was a beggar, I was begging the businessmen to buy a tennis player who had a 200-euro raise and I was adding myself there in the hospital, but I don't think I'm going to tell you what it was all about. So, I was a beggar, after a year I resigned. And when we were supposed to be in the first A League then I was, we were first, that club was the first in the first B league and he was playing the last game with Varazdin and in the event of victory we would get into the first A League so the coach told me, Kvesic otherwise our Olympic Kvesic basketball player, she coached the club she said we had to lose and Varazdin was the last. So you said why? We can't go in because we don't have the money to play in the first A league. And they lost. I wasn't supposed to say this, but that's it, I'm going back to the state's attorney's hearing, but that's what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107793	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107794	Just a little bit, Mr. Rainer, to tell the state's attorney that it's already aged, it was 6.7 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107795	Now we've heard a lot of things and we've expanded the subject quite a bit, so we'll still go back to it, and the next individual debate will have a distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the HoO, Mr. Secretary. To be honest with you today, by listening to these discussions in the House, a man can't help but ask himself one question, did Croatian athletes from the lowest leagues to those top-notch and all those thousands of great people who take care of these athletes deserve what they listen to today? I personally don't think so. And I think a political belief that one project is not good is not worth so much that it would undo all the beautiful things that grace sports. And if there's anything nice in a man's life, and it's those who taste sport, taste rivalry in sports, taste sports friendship, and eventually end up in sports you get a feeling if you're worth playing, if you're not worth playing. And that's what people who get, that's what's been following them for the rest of their lives. We unfortunately don't behave like that here today. Don't you really think that a joint HoO programme and local sports communities didn't deserve to talk about it? Don't you really think that a special programme in the field of sports, children and young people didn't deserve to talk about it? Is this Sports TV really worth more than tens of thousands of young people? It's not. But when there's a drug debate, about stopping this, then there's gonna be such great stories, everybody's gonna fight for it, but sport is the most effective believe it. Trust me. And we had to talk about it today. But when we ask ourselves where the sport is today, then we can pull the parallel with Sports TV. After the start of the economic and financial crisis, unfortunately, sport fell to the low branches due to a lack of financial resources and perhaps the biggest accident of Sports TV that began to take place at the moment when the economic crisis hit the economy. And that's why I'm not going to talk about sports TV at all, I'm going to talk about sports, I'm going to talk about sports halls where, if necessary, because of politics, we're going to spit about Arena. Somebody tell me that the city of Zagreb doesn't need a sports facility and a cultural facility because you in the city of Zagreb don't hate to hold any cultural event where performers are very expensive that you can't raise 10,000 or 12,000 people because you can't raise money from tickets who will fund it. I'd be thrilled if Rijeka had a gym like that, too. He's got a pool like that. However, what is crucial, we are here today just to say what our colleague Comparić was saying, how the sports infrastructure we all built no matter what time and how they were built from our money, how to bring our children closer to sports. Is it normal for a lot of sports halls to be used by recreationals like this, like that, and then that your 10 or 11-year-old has training at 10 or 11 o'clock. That's not normal. We were supposed to talk about it here today. Why? Because HOO is a roof association of all national alliances and we should have talked about how HoO works sportingly. Is that where he satisfied what needs to be satisfied, is that how those who are members of the HoO work? Then this debate here would make sense. And then the question asked by my colleague Lugaric wouldn't be necessary at all because we would really talk about what we should talk about. And I'm telling you colleagues and colleagues when you talk about those 100 million gambling funds are somewhere around 300 million, are the other users of that 300 million reporting, are these funds...? No, you don't have a chance to discuss that. But the worst thing is that politics gets involved where politics is gone and shouldn't be because fans of one club are members of all political parties. And so when they find themselves in the stands, they're hanging out for their club. But who wasn't in sports, who didn't try to organize a game for pioneers one Saturday, for younger cadets, for cadets, for juniors, for the first team and pay all those who participate in that whole story that doesn't know what sport is, and that's a real sport. Because if it wasn't for this real sport, and look at the documentary on the Bones, then there wouldn't be any of our mega stars. They were born out of that crowd and they came here to watch them all and to admire them all. And everyone thinks that HoO lives on such beautiful things. But I'm saying that we've read a little bit better just the content of this we'd probably discuss differently and that sports TV would probably go into another plan, probably, at least that's what I think. I'll find time and opportunity to discuss Sports TV, but here I want to talk about sports. My heart hurts in that sport that I love most, which is my favorite when I see where the Split, Sibenik and Zadar basketball are today. There is no Croatian basketball without those three cities. We can talk whatever we want. My heart hurts to see where Cibona is today. Let's look at the handball, we can object to the handball club and people in the handball club as much as we want, but if there were no Handball Club Zagreb, would we have a team that has been among the four best in Europe and the world for years? No, you wouldn't. Water polo, let's see where our pride is today, where is our pride in Zagreb? He's gone. Why is it just one or two water polo clubs at this point good? And that's our sport. Football, where's football in Slavonia? He's gone. But it's all a reflection of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia just like this Sports TV. And maybe today was the opportunity of a colleague and a colleague not to discuss as members of certain political options but rather to discuss as people who have or have children, or to have grandkids today who should be instructed to deal with sports and who should be referred to all the beauty that sport offers. It's not just a sport of millions that earns and lights etc., sport is something I said at first far more beautiful, far wider, far more content. And I say, if we tried to discuss this report of the Croatian Olympic Committee in such a way, then we wouldn't be fighting politically. More or less, all of us here were members of either the executive or representative body in the units of local self-government. You have that program together necessary to meet the needs of sport and culture etc.. So when you look at just how many associations in one city, come on, middle-sized you have, and when you look at just how many young people deal through it and then you also have to pull back the story of how much grown-ups you care about so that you can function. We today with our debate have thrown mud in the face of all those people who care about sports. Why? Because we didn't give them credit. We didn't say thank you, but we're fighting over me with one lousy thing. Because if someone made a mistake about sports television, that's what's gonna fit. Going to talk here is such a loss and on that to add credit is the elemental ignorance of finance. But that's when you say it's something terrible. And that's what's not good. However, colleagues and colleagues when talking about this topic remember Barcelona, remember Ivanisevic, remember that Drazen and what pride he was in all of us at the time. Remember '98. and the firemen, and we can count as many as we want. Remember that before you start discussing this topic. Because you simply have no human, nor moral, nor any other right to speak when it comes to sports other than speaking in such a way. Because I'm saying sports television isn't worth it. Unfortunately, a package full of cable TV costs 300 kuna, you can't practically see any sports events in the Republic of Croatia if you don't buy this package. Sometimes after basketball players became world champions, you had Saturday at 5 o'clock basketball game broadcast. The strongest games were on Sunday at 5:15 and that was clear. Also, the flow of information and the possibility of viewing was virtually nothing. You've had a sports review every Sunday, a report from all the games, and that's how sports got popular. And what are we doing here today in the debate? Is this the popularization of sports? No, I don't. It's a spit-out sport. And that's what just can't happen. Let's not just talk about sports when they win medals. To win the medal takes a lot, a lot of work. Both Mr Mateša and Mr. Chop and all the people on the Croatian Olympic Committee and in the national alliances should work hard. Because I've been in sports for 45, 46 years, as an active athlete, as a man who cares about sports and was president of the National Union and believe me today I'm extremely sad. And I'm ashamed as a politician that we haven't shown enough consciousness today to talk about the subject, to talk about something that's nice and was the biggest promoter of this country when we needed it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107797	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107798	I agree with you that we should talk specifically about this sport, especially about the sport of children and young people, and that the financial report is not what it is, then we should probably talk about it. What's this about? On page 47 and 48, a total of 4 million 962 kunas 908 kunas paid by the decision of the Assembly of the Olympic Board of Sports Television, so 4 million 900 thousand kuna and a little more. When you add up all the items for these young people you have less than that. Programmes in the field of sports of children and youth 367 thousand kuna, winter university 45 thousand kuna, summer university 350 thousand kuna, Olympic festival of European youth winter 345 thousand kuna, summer 492 thousand kuna, support to athletes of younger age categories 244 thousand kuna, special youth care programs these B 341, team sports 475 thousand kuna. And now that we add these larger items coaches of younger age categories million and 700, individual special youth care programs this A, and the program million and 200 thousand kuna again we have less than we gave for sports television and that's why so much is discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107799	Answer, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107800	You see, colleagues, that you've opened pages before, and you've seen what needs to be financed through the youth care program, and if you've compared it to financial reports, then you'd be given the right to do so, so I don't give you the right to do so. The other thing, as someone who's been in sports and you've been secretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Sports then you should know that the main concern about meeting the needs of sports and the financing of youth sports is on the units of local self-government. Just a little bit, that's regulated for you at the moment when you've been allocated income tax to the original incomes of local self-government units and so you have when you're making a budget because you can't bring a budget at local level without having access to how you meet the communal needs, meeting the needs of culture, also the programs in sport. So when you look in the text section at what should be done about young people and when you look at the financial part, then you will see that it is. Another thing when you look at those money that needs to come from the Croatian lottery, from the games, actually from games of chance and when you look at the program that is being financed and which is foreseen by the Croatian Olympic Committee then you will see that not even a drop of that money has gone to Sports Television. Therefore, let's not confuse, the financial part is in the end, but the financial part is a summary of the textual explanation of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. And when you add it all together, then you'll see that my discussion was 100% correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107801	We have another replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107802	Dear fellow Shuker, sports really is the most beautiful thing we have. And at this point and all these years, thousands and thousands of people, volunteers, free of charge... They sacrificely work in the field in all our municipalities and cities and keep these clubs on their feet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fact one, here is my colleague Comparić Devčić mentioned that in Rijeka halls and sports grounds are used for free. Nothing is free, so the Sport River Company writes hours neatly and finely charges how much it costs and everything goes to the burden of the city of Rijeka. The same situation is the case in all other cities and municipalities regarding such clubs. What makes me angry is that the situation in today's sport is a reflection of the economic situation in the country, that there is an imposition on such some clubs that are financed exclusively from the budget of local self-government units, and I was present at several of these inspection controls where they are asked from a football club that is on the city budget to cover hundreds of seats so that they can compete further. I've got a basketball club that's about to get into the first and I hope soon, I wonder what that club is going to finance. Only on the city's budget that measures and these governments, tax policy is cut by those 20 and something percent compared to all previous years, which we do with these clubs, in which way we continue to finance them if we're going to discuss this in a way that we simply push and impose some kind of political conflict within all of this. And that's where you're absolutely right when you said that these athletes, and thousands and thousands of people didn't deserve to be mentioned here either HDZ or SDP in this particular way, where, as much as and where represented on some committee, in some kind of club, in some kind of sports organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107803	The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107804	Thank you very much. Dear Klaric, if we had discussed today the programme to encourage sport at local level then we would have probably touched all these topics, but since we wanted to prove that someone had messed up with Sports TV and that because of that we had to leave then we totally ignored the sport. Therefore, no one here defends a group of MPs, I will now use the Prime Minister's rhetoric to sign and put the proposal on the debate of Sports Television and then we will discuss it, and we will discuss sports where it belongs, and that is the Croatian Olympic Committee Report. Then we would touch problems at local levels, we would also touch tax treatment problems, first of all about the fees in amateur sports... so it should be professionally defined because it is not logical for you to have those five or six people sitting at the record table that you have to practically pay each and every one of those 100, 200 kuna and pay taxes. You have a strong administration because these taxes, like this... are mostly local self-government units, and these clubs are funded right from the community budget, actually by the community of sports associations at the level of units of local self-government. But I'm saying, if we wanted to talk about it, then we'd talk about it, but no, we've been trying to prove that someone made some kind of marifetteluk. And where there really is marifetteluk and where it is evident, we don't want to talk about it because it wants to be shown in this assembly, and also in society that marifetteluk and irregularities have only one mark, one political party, and for other political parties it's practically something that can't happen to them. And even on the example of Sports TV they want to prove it, but I say there's a different story and we could have sports TV today to draw conclusions, we still get there, to declare it to be sports television of public interest and we solved all the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107805	Thank you. We move to the last individual debate on this point and will speak to the distinguished representative Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about a part of this report, I think we should first read what the introduction says, which is the Croatian Olympic Committee in general, and especially all of us need to read what its objectives are. And if we'd all read it today, this debate wouldn't be full of demagogy, and, above all, politics. Yes, when we talk about sports first of all he has quite exact indicators, which is said in this debate. Then you can see how much medal 333, that there are over 600 performances and activities throughout the year, that's almost two activities a day. You can talk about how much investment we have in sports, so we can really explicitly define a lot of things, and that's what we should have talked about today most of the time and talk about that part. In order for these things to be monitored, the goals we set can be monitored, of course, also the financial needs. When we analyze finance, we also see that the funds are quite insufficient, that maybe the separation from this part for the happy and betting might be insufficient. As far as we know, it's about 30%, because it's 100 million kuna total outflows of about 300 million, that we need to increase absolutely more funding for sport, especially from that source, that we may need to see through tax policy, in a way that we can also help other sources of funding. First of all, these are support, subsidies and donations primarily from the businessmen, which are seen in this report very little. And when we see the expenditure side that we make up 50% of the funds is immediately allocated to regular programmes of national sports alliances, that we have about 20% separation for special programming projects that are implemented, then that there is somehow 15% for expenditure on the activities of the body and service and about 4% for promoting sport at local level. We see that the funds that are so lacking in this distribution are when defined there is no too much space to do what is basically needed. When we talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee, what I think we should compare as the roof house of the entire Croatian sport. If we're already talking like a roof house... construction, we never make a house from a roof, but we do the foundations and the foundations have to be extremely solid, strong, so we can make that upgrade. I would like to point out, then, what I think is an upgrade, which I think indeed the Croatian Olympic Committee must really give an even more active role and this professional role, and above all co-ordination of all sports relevant activities in Croatia. There'd be an emphasis on local sports in my opinion. These 4% are very little compared to anything. Another level I would like to mention is that we need to activate coordination and professional activity, help with EU projects and, of course, build a network of sports centres in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I see there's potential and I see there's a possibility of developing sports at all levels. Why the network of sports centres? Because here we have a report that 135 of our top athletes receive compensation for the achievement that has been achieved. Then it's my question, and how are these top athletes their experience, their knowledge, their ability to pass on to other athletes most often to amateurs and to a younger age group. Well, I only think through sports camps. This is an example of good practice, first of all in Slovenia, should not go far. Not to talk about Germany, not to talk about Hungary what they're doing in that part. This is where you need to invest. Yes, it's not just the task of the Olympic Committee, but it's the task of all of us starting with the state, starting with several ministries that need to be coordinated so that we can monitor one of these activities. EU projects, we all say that there are these projects, that there are huge funds, but in all activities of first and foremost the National Sports Alliance, of the local self-government unit, of clubs, they can all use those funds. But they must be helped to know that about... I can certainly use the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we're talking about a local sport that I think is the basis of all the activities. Now, first of all, I would ask all of you if you know one piece of information, and I am like the mayor of Lepoglava that the city of Lepoglava is the first city in Croatia to have a prestigious European city of sport. Mr. Matesha, do you know that? How many MPs know about it? How many Croatian citizens know about it? What I'm trying to say is that nobody is too interested in it, and that prestigious title is not exactly obtained from an association that is a rural association. This is the ACCESS EUROPE, it works with the European Commission and primarily works on the initiatives set out in the White Paper on Sports. The work of the ACCESS EUROPE is defined in point 50 of the White Paper where the delegation is authorised by the ACCESS EUROPE to conduct the selection and award of the European capital of sports, sports and small towns of sport. That was last year. The contest was announced. Only the town of Lepoglava responded to that contest. Why many cities in Croatia did not report to the competition. They could have! I'm talking about how many potentials we're opening up to, how much we know we're capable of using. But then there was the question, I even have it on me, and why Leprechaun that city of sports, why aren't big cities that think they're big cities of sport. And here I'm talking about that sport we put into another context, the context of professionalism, the context where big money is spinning and where the common man first forgets that young people that sport is what unites the most things. We talked a lot about not only sports activities, sports skills that are provided talking about the importance of the social component, of socializing, of changing experiences. It is also an important economic segment, not to mention the health segment. The analysis of ACCESS EUROPE says that by investing in sport, five kunas return to lower health costs in Croatia. That's all that unites, which can help us not only individually, but all of us. It's a sport and it's what we should all be stressing here today along with you that I'm still talking about should be the main part of that sport. And we forget the essence of the sport that the town of Lepoglava has successfully highlighted, too, not only after running, but we have passed the extremely strict evaluation criteria by the European Commission delegation ACCESS EUROP and we have received this prestigious title. I was also pleased when last year we were in the European Parliament for the first time among a dozen, a hundred of our colleagues can tell the cities that had already received before that title for the first time could be heard by the Croatian voice. And I was pleased to say that the gentleman from Marseilles who received the prestigious title or the football player Tigan came to us and congratulated us on that prestigious award. Now it's pride and Croatia and all of us that we know and can, one little Leprechaun. We have defined that we want first of all to raise awareness of the importance of sports, especially among the younger generations, and build the infrastructure needed to practice sport. The city of Lepoglava for many years, which means in our third term where we brought strategy and we know what sport means to us. We draw between 5% and 7% of direct budget revenues for sport. And it doesn't help us much, unfortunately, and previous other institutions haven't gotten much support in sports. We even... certain support provided by the Croatian Olympic Committee that we also bought a van that serves to defuse athletes, for lawn mowers, for sports traffic lights, all the projects we could get, and we sought out the project-oriented city and we got these support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should look even more at that level, because it's the best and the best investment in sport. And we need to be concrete, clear and know what sport means to us at all times in that part. We want to really and now we have achieved this so that every citizen of the city of Lepoglava can deal with a certain level of any recreational sport, whether or not to engage in sports in club activities. Not to talk about... sports halls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All three schools are on one shift and these sports halls are used for sport this afternoon. We have virtually all the same boards that we're going to have in a few more years to have small-footed playgrounds, basketball courts, we've got a gym. So everything we've made possible for the citizens of the town of Leprechaun. So we don't have grand stadiums, we don't have world-class top players, but we have citizens who want to and can play sports. This is what should be an incentive and an example to all of us. Here's if there's nothing else we can do to get from Lepoglava to Sports TV to mention it so that from the example of good practice we can publish how he treats sports at local level which makes up the basis of sports in that part... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107807	Thank you. And now the final word will be given by the proposing representative, the esteemed Zlatko Mateša, president of the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to be extremely constructive and only in this brief presentation to ask you for some things that I think are in favour of Croatian sport and I am sure that all MPs and MPs are on that line. First of all, I have to say that I'm really sorry that no one in our department has listened to this debate. I doubt the assistant minister of sports would have more to do than sit here like I do and listen to what MPs and MPs say about the HOO report but these are some new rules, at some other times hardly that might happen. Well, good. Funding, what I'm asking you to do is try to find new sources of funding. There's no way, in my personal opinion, and I'm a little familiar with state finances, that we'll be able to count in the long term and in the short term on some significant resources from the state budget. But there are other sources we have been proposing for several years and we simply can't get to the point of passing proper laws. The first and most important law regulates the online betting of non-domestic organisations. These are all those bet and win, home and win and others who have servers somewhere in the Caribbean, which are pulling out of Croatia through hundreds of millions of kuna payments and which the Croatian state does not process in any way financially. We offered the French model to the ministry, we didn't even get an answer. The French model foresees one form of concession, it is operational and most EU members have the appropriate models and we really ask that this happens with us. That's the money that belongs to sports. Bettings are not available at theatre performances or other events, art exhibitions and similar activities. It is money that belongs to sport and it is time to return some of that money to Croatian sport. The other thing that is very important and mentioned by the esteemed representative seems to me the Bugalo so-called. Hungarian model. The Hungarian model implies that the state, not the Olympic Committee, the state and so it should be, strategically determines five, six, seven sports for which companies are allowed to share their profit tax with the consent of the Ministry of Finance to pay national sports associations of those sports. It is another source that could significantly engage the Croatian economy to help those sports for which the ministry is responsible, finds that they are of strategic interest. Thirdly, what you said about Leprechaun, about the vans, I'm afraid it won't be anymore because the ministry is asking us to stop funding the local sport because it's not our responsibility. So how it's gonna end, I don't know. As far as EU projects are concerned, we have had an office for EU projects for years. We have just finished, together with the European Olympic Committee's office in Brussels, a brochure relating to the investment of European funds in sport. So we'll be so free to deliver it to all the clubs that you can see about everything that can be financed from the world of sports through these funds. After all, television is often mentioned. I ask you once again to consider whether Croatia needs a national sports television channel free of charge so that people can watch domestic sports and all that is interesting for domestic sport. So far, we have had, for example, a school league show that shows all the activities of school sports, children who play certain children, certain clubs, competitions. That show's been on 100 times already. So is it some kind of general benefit for these kids to be seen there, to see these activities? That's what someone has to do, that's what we do. In addition, I will end with this, when it comes to the promotion and public needs programme in sport, I will read to you what I have already said, as adopted by this High House as a projection, i.e. to project the financial plans of the users of the state budget for 2014, 2015 and 2016. The sentence says, with this I will conclude, "the budget projection of the HOO for the period 2014 to 2016 was made in accordance with the objectives and tasks of the HOO as well as in accordance with the proposed guidelines of the Government." And here you have 10 goals. The 10th goal is to continue the promotion of Croatian sport through a specialized sports channel SPTV, with 100% owner of HOO. So we even have an obligation to deal with it. But that's irrelevant, it's important that it would be much more important to have your support, to keep at least one national sports program because, as I said in the HRT Strategy, there is no specialized sports channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107809	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that, unfortunately, here you have had the opportunity to hear these suggestions from only one-six MPs and no government official. You have two replicas. First, he was a respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107810	Thank you very much. I won't repeat myself, there's a lot of things being said today, but just one sentence. Finally, at the end of the day, you have made a series of remarks about the financing of sports, so here I suggest, that perhaps we should hold one thematic session of the Sports Committee with these topics, that you initiate, and then discuss there all these tax breaks, suggestions, etc. and not to wait for the 2014 report now, but now that we are in this topic in the next period, we can initiate it. And another sentence, about these projections of the PDO budget for 2014 and 2015, the state budget, where you're talking about sports television as one of the public needs for sport, we're here to discuss the 2013 Report. The 2013 budget does not mention this. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107811	Next came the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107812	Well, Mr. Mateša, I don't know which time the public needs programme at national level brings the Croatian Parliament parallel to the budget as well as some other documents with the budget. You know exactly who they are. The Croatian Parliament has never adopted a public needs programme in sport, and there are no arguments, no readings, quotes of any documents that can hide the fact that the legal obligation referred to in Article 75(4). The law on sports is not fulfilled. The Croatian Parliament has never adopted a programme of public needs in sport, and until we bring it in, we will have these discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107813	The Honorable Mr. Zlatko Matesha will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107814	Madam MPs, it turns out that I read some HoO document I read what was adopted in this house and I read what it says, says APC 703, encouraging the public needs program of sports in HoO brackets. I've read it, you can find it in Parliament archives, that's what you voted for. I mean, we're not in charge of that document, or the one you're talking about that the Ministry or whoever it is he's never proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107815	Thank you very much. We have completed the debate on this point, so I am concluding it and the vote will be when the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107816	Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2013 is not accepted. a year." Please vote on the conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 73 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 18 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107817	We would now move on to the next point, and it is: - Proposal for a Law establishing the Fund for Co-financing of Investment Projects, first reading, P.Z.BR.738 - Proposer of Representative Natalija Martinčević. You've received a proposal for action. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here's an esteemed representative, Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107818	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues The People's Party of Reformists sent a proposal for a Law establishing a Fund for Co-financing of Investment Projects to the parliamentary procedure at the 9th month. It is known to all of us that Croatia's EU accession has opened up great opportunities for the development of our economy by means of grants from European funds. This is what we were hoping for by joining the EU, that is what should have encouraged economic growth and development and that is what Croatia has proved unfortunately very unsuccessful so far. And of course it's not my personal impression or some personal vision of things, it's very clear and concrete facts and figures. The experiences of all countries that have entered the Union before Croatia testify to the enormous importance of European public investment funds but also warn of the fact that the crucial role in the withdrawal of these funds has a high quality national policy which is the basis for the creation and preparation of investment projects. Currently, Croatia is paying more money into the EU budget than it is withdrawing, and that is a well-known fact. The situation at the institutional level of the EU-run public authorities is poor, working among other things and lack of administrative capacity with sufficient knowledge, and on the other hand, I am particularly talking about local self-government units lacking capacity, financial capacity to close the financial structure of the project. And that's exactly where this bill goes. So create all preconditions for better and more efficient use of European funds. In fact, in addition to the fact that the membership and opportunities offered to us in terms of grants we did not take advantage of it we are limited by another fact, which is actually that those who should have the most benefits and benefits from European funds and these are found by the county, these are our cities, these are our municipalities very often not able to realise them. Namely, as is also known, Croatia is with Greece the most centralised state in the EU so that 90% of the total tax revenues ends in the central state budget while the remaining 10 are allocated to all other units of local self-government, so all other counties, cities and municipalities. It is already clear from that what the budgets of our counties, cities and municipalities are in and that they actually have ready and approved projects coming into a situation that they cannot co-finance them. Because if the EU also co-finances a specific project, we take it from 60, 70 or I don't know up to 85% of the remaining units of local self-government should provide the rest of the funding for co-financing of the project. This is the problem for our cities, municipalities and counties already with smaller projects, and then you know what opportunities to finance or co-finance large capital projects that we are talking about millions of euros. So very clear and precise none. That is why the idea of this fund is to provide funds to co-finance those projects approved by the EU. So there is a clear criterion that there would be no co-financed or co-financed basis, so the criteria are clear, only those projects approved by the EU. In this way, we would prevent non-implementation and abandonment of good and quality projects for lack of own resources. It also gives great opportunity to all our counties, cities and municipalities that will prepare quality projects that they will also be realised and the opportunity to bridge the differences between the development of Croatian regions. This approach to project realization can be one big cornerstone to our economy because in this case with this fund and this way and access to the financing of European projects there is no longer any limit in the realisation of the projects of our local self-government units and of course this means the realisation of projects, the employment of our companies and the employment of our people. The role of the Fund is further to finance the preparation, implementation and development of projects approved and accepted by the EU, thus raising the level of user knowledge of the project cycle itself and bridging the so-called lack of own administrative capacity which we often have opportunities to hear necessary for the successful completion of the project. The Fund would also continue to serve as a knowledge base for which existing and future beneficiaries of funds from European funds and funds could benefit from the development of new projects and would minimise the risk of financial corrections in case of suspected irregularities in the project, which we also find extremely important. As far as fund financing is concerned, according to the bill, the fund operates on an economic principle, the state only through the VAT system in the budget immediately incomes 25% on each investment, and through the entire system of our taxes everything is returned to everything it has co-financed. The further funding of the Fund shall be ensured through the resulting difference invested and realised by each individual project. This ensures transparent business and measurable, primarily measurable results of the Fund's work. In addition to how important it is to establish such a system of support for the realisation of European projects, Croatia is best told that it has 10.6 billion euros from 2014 to 2020 for cohesion policy objectives, 2 billion euros for agriculture and rural development and 253 million for fisheries development. What we and how we planned to pull out of this in 2015 best says the fact how the government planned the budget for 2015. In fact, the government is also the minimum projected GDP growth on which the budget cannot be realised, achieved without withdrawing funds from the EU and at the level of public investment, and they are planned with 7.1 billion kuna of the European component. Let's just look at what it looked like last year. So we paid 3.6 billion kuna to the European budget, and we withdrew 3 billion kuna. The government that failed in the key investment segment this year makes it clear that it will schedule the following because for European funds, the assumption is therefore to secure the domestic component in the budget. We talked a lot about this when the budget was adopted, insurance at a level of 720 million kuna allows a maximum of 3.5 billion kuna of the European component, so half as much as is foreseen in the budget. So to recapitalise, given the failure so far in the withdrawal of European funds, unless the fundamentally changing way of functioning of the institutions, notably the Government, in relation to the European funds, is invested in the development of projects that are mature for funding, and unless financial assistance from European funds users is allowed in terms of covering their own financial share and preparing projects, and this is exactly what we are talking about today, it is possible that the Republic of Croatia will not even agree on allocated funds, let alone use them. I referred this bill to the procedure eight months ago. I spoke publicly of his importance several times, I talked about him and about his budget for 2015, but we are only discussing him today. But here we come to an interesting one for us opposition advocates of fact, perhaps encouraging facts, which is that sometimes the government listens and follows what we say and propose. Namely, the government is based on our proposal from the 9th month in the 12th month fund and established, although not in the way we predicted it and not on the means with which we predicted it, but we think that the establishment of the fund and the very fact that the government recognized the importance of what we suggest is a good first step. I am sorry that it did not recognise this body and that we had to wait for more than 8 months in the debate because it seems to me that it would still be a little more logical if we had discussed this bill before the fund was established because somehow I see that these debates should be aimed at improving legislative proposals and finding the most qualitative solutions. I'm sorry it's fate and other legal proposals for opposition deputies. I'm just going to repeat a little bit about the legislative proposals of the National Party of Reformist MPs. Therefore, the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament was proposed at the 6th month last year to discuss and decide at the 2nd month of this year, in order to bring to the situation in this waiting and drowsiness that almost the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament decided on the entire electoral system in the referendum, therefore with or without mentioning now what was happening about this law. The second legislative proposal in the 11th month I proposed the Law establishing the University of the North, for us from the northern region an extremely important law that the Government refused. After the government rejected it, a public debate opens up and the SDP proposes the same legislative proposal that we expect to adopt here and then we have the Law establishing the EU Co-financing Fund for projects that we are discussing after the Fund is established. So the 3 laws we've proposed, all three are in some way actually adopted just not as directly as it should be in the process, but with all possible tampering. That's why I'm only saying it, I didn't mean to mention it, but today I was inspired by the President of the Parliament. Namely, when MPs today sought a break by opening various topics, he urged lawmakers to the procedure, to propose acts, to propose legislative proposals but we must conclude, however, that this way of dealing with opposition MPs' legal proposals is not in line with what the President of the Parliament has today called for. And what else does he do when MPs are looking for breaks? I think fellow MPs that this is not a good way to work and if we want our citizens to appreciate more the way we work that we should seriously change the approach and way of working in this House of Commons. I call on all MPs to support this bill and the government to lay the fund on the principles and with the solutions we have proposed in this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107819	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused four replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107820	My colleague Martincevic, I have no doubts and I believe that the government will not accept this bill as much as most of them, nor is it realistic, we can talk about it as acceptable in this form. However, well pointed out and it is good to talk about it this way because when we look at it and it applies practically to all of Croatia wherever the status of the mountain-mounted area is removed, we have already talked about it, so I will talk about the Gorski kotar I know about. So just by making a move and which strategy, what modality is the way of thinking about this government and the Ministry of Regional Development. So we took down their status, we took already 54 million kunas, we cut their budgets by 20%, municipalities and cities whose demographic situation shows, and this year it's confirmed that it loses the population 1.5% annually, and now we're talking about European projects that they should do and that they have. These European projects, and to get money in a 100% amount and they won't get it because of the crazy way of calculating the development index in that area, haven't appreciated everything we've been saying here that the calculation doesn't show a real situation on the ground. Yes, and they get the money at 100%, and they won't get it because of this development index, the question is, what are they going to keep it up to later. So they're gonna build a gym, it costs money. Just before we talked about sports and he has no money for normal functioning, for social services, for maintaining local unclassified roads for winter service. I can really talk about it for hours. And to make the absurd bigger, when convinced by the leader of the local self-government unit, a meeting was held and the media wrote about it, Greece promised me four things. He promised to subsidise the costs of the winter service, promised to subsidise city bus transport, promised them an increase in forest rent and promised them a meeting on the subject in which they would be paid back in January. Now we've been five months, neither, nor the other, nor the third, nor the fifth. What are we talking about? So we can't even think about attracting any means in this way when units of local self-government no matter how many ready projects they have can't run. Let's say the Moravice ship is now running a sewer for 700 inhabitants. Who's going to finance that? This will cost and there will be no money in the budget, European funds are one-off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107821	Thank you. The distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107822	Well, here's what I'd like to say, so this bill of law by the People's Party of Reformists isn't something we've come up with ourselves like this. Namely, it is a legal proposal, it is a model that applies in most Member States of the European Union. So this is a proven model that works and which Member States have recognised. Although most Member States of the European Union are nowhere near centralised, such as Croatia. So there units of local self-government have far greater resources available. I mentioned those numbers here. So in Croatia, with 90% of total tax revenues, there is a central state and all with 10% of all other county, cities and municipalities. So with such minimum budgets you can finance the European Union project for the Drava-Mura cycling trails and that is that and you have exhausted your budget. So any serious project, capital project, sewerage, draining, purification, waste disposal, you can't finance it, it's just not real and it's not possible. We are now in a position when we have a project that then every mayor, mayor and mayor of the municipality must go to beg the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Assistant, until I know which ministry official to possibly by political criteria someone is co-financed or not. This way we'd avoid so we'd throw politics out of this. This is actually important here, because the only criteria, the criteria set by the European Union. If the European Union approves the project, then the project goes and the fund co-finances it. And I think it's very clear and very transparent and it throws out politics, and it's very important and therefore who, which project will be approved and who not. And as for...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107823	Next Replication [[As far as I'm concerned.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107824	And well, I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107825	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, this would be more of a correction to an incorrect quote than a replica in the right sense of the word, but you've offered me, too, but that's a claim we often hear in this House. According to the European Commission's 2013 financial report, Croatia made a positive difference of 49.6m euros in that year. Now, if the European Commission is lying, then so am I. If we look at the financial indicators, i.e. the review of IPA and structural funds on 3.4.2015, so we talk about the period from 2007-2013 when we could use the same amount from a billion and 261 million euros that were awarded, 983 million euros were paid and 539 million euros were paid. We'll agree that this is the result that's not the brightest, so something's less than 50%, but we have to consider the fact that we weren't ready for that cycle, or that we haven't prepared enough personnel. When we talk about EU funds from 2007 to 2013, so when we could use them, a total of 983.5m euros were agreed and 539.3m euros were paid, so significantly above 50%. Therefore, absorption is increasing, and I believe that when we include in 2014 and 2015, the result will be much better. So these repeated claims that we pay more in the European budget than we withdraw simply do not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107827	Thank you. The respected representative Natalija Martincevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107828	Well, I thought he was so optimistic in our country only the vice-president, Mr. Greek, but now I see that there is someone who is equally optimistic. I am pleased with your optimism, but at the beginning of the debate, I said I would not talk about my impression or my thoughts or feelings about our European funds, but I will speak very clearly about the figures. And the figures are what they are, and they very clearly show that we are in attracting European funds for the time being the most unsuccessful Member State, and we are the most unsuccessful and when we look at it and compete with all other countries, so when they entered the first year of membership. So the results are bad. I could use this good and constructive legislative proposal today and use this debate to talk for 20 minutes about what we didn't do well, what we missed out on, etc. but I didn't want to, so I had one positive and constructive debate and a proposal because I want what is not well done to fix it now and that all of us together in the use available to the European Union to be much more successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107829	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107830	... Every proposal and your proposal of course has good things, excellent but also less excellent things. [[Specially enabled.]] The key and what I expect from the People's Party of Reformists... your name is to respect two things of business, including EU funds, which is depolitisation and deregulation. Okay, depolitisation, you're a political party like SDP or any other party, depolitisation is kind of hard to avoid, but you haven't made deregulation. By the way, with this law, you do hyper regulation, you do red tape. It's a key offense to this law, so it's crucial. You're doing hyper regulation instead of deregulation because you know that EU funds like all other foreign direct investments are exactly the key barrier. That's number one. Number two, you're right, it's been eight months, and in those eight months, you've heard what your colleague Hajdukovic told you, there's been a lot of things happening, and in... this law, maybe you could start with new data. Then, of course, replicas and other things would be perfectly clear. So I am, of course, speaking on my own behalf, but also as chairman of the Committee on EU Funds, and I must be honest that everyone knows about EU funds, all of Croatia. It's like a Yeti, everybody knows what a Yeti looks like, where he's hiding, how he swims, a little Kraul, a little back, no one's seen him. So EU funds is a serious thing, the thing to do together, so I say and here there is really in the law and the good side, without politicizing maximum use and I think that I expected from the People's Party of Reformists one law that would be completely said would the English "up side down", turn things upside down, depolitize, deregulate, less bureaucratize and as much as possible introduce foreign direct investment, be they Greenfield investments or Brownfield investments. One and the other has advantages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107831	Thank you. The respected representative Natalija Martincevic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107832	Dear fellow, I must admit you've made me a little confused. As far as depoliticization is concerned, the whole idea of the law and I just talked about it in the replica, the whole idea of the law is actually total depoliticization. So when you want to co-finance your project in your municipality, in the city, in the county, you don't have to pray to the Prime Minister, Minister, Assistant or any official in the ministry to push you through, you don't have to be in that political party where the Prime Minister and Government are, so enough to have a good and quality project. If adopted and adopted by the European Union, that is the only criterion. The project's going. It's about politicization and depoliticalism. So this is a project that doesn't even know how to politicize, so this bill. And as far as excessive regulation is concerned, you have made me particularly confused here because this law has 3 pages, it has 16 articles, and ultimately your government has accepted that law in the sense that it established a fund exactly as we wrote it, just before we had the chance to give the debate but I commended it. So the government has seen all the advantages of this bill, it's established a fund, and it would be good if we were discussing today that we had this debate before, maybe you and your proposals could contribute to the government actually doing something better than we suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107833	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107834	Dear fellow Martincevic, your legal proposal is, in fact, if the government founded the fund, then it is more groundless. So what are we discussing here if you say the government almost founded a fund under the same name and here's what you suggested in the form of a legal proposal. The only thing he's on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, even though there are points in connection with the ban on performance and actions that we've proposed, so we can't come from 60th place forward, and here's your law, I don't know if it's because the government adopted it so you and the government can boast that you've done something. But as far as I know from my point of view, your president has also made it through the Energy and Investment Center. I don't know what happened to that center that was founded at the time, and then it went completely quiet about whether he disappeared, stopped working, etc. In addition, where you act, you have a university north of which the government has also proposed in the form of its legal proposal. Unfortunately, or unfortunately, Mr. Mariner was also in Slavonski Brod promised the University of Slavonski Brod. Is that it may be a hyperinflation not because of Brod but also because of Koprivnica, the university when we look at the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. But it would be good if he had a North University. Of course, I'll be for it, I won't be against it. But in the hope that you and your party will be occupied and for the University of Slavonski Brod which I will represent here in the discussion of the University of the North and us from the HDSSB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107835	Thank you. That's what we're with, sorry. The answer of the distinguished representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107836	Thank you. So the government founded the fund, didn't start it with enough resources, and that's our first grudge. I also asked by amending the budget to raise those funds in a way that the fund could truly meet its full purpose. It's about that first remark. Second of all, as far as your law on performances and actions is concerned, I fully support you, and I agree. In fact, here there is one of our proposals for a conclusion relating to Raiffeisen cooperatives and illegal delicacies, the executions of people who were literally robbed by Raiffeisen cooperatives. And here, of course, we expect that exactly what I was talking about today, which is what I was warning you about, which is that Parliament will react in a way that puts points on the agenda, not that we discuss them 10 months after. And that's for people who are now under the spells and actions of vital importance. Here I absolutely support your proposal that these legislative proposals and conclusions should have priority. As far as the North University is concerned, it's of paramount importance. In fact, the region of the north has 650,000 inhabitants and the region of the north, which may be data that people do not know, but it has a high and higher education rate of 10%. The average of higher and higher educated in Croatia is 18%, and in Zagreb and Rijeka, for example, 30%. In addition, Varazdin County along with Međimurska has the lowest salaries throughout Croatia, which only means that parents cannot send these children to study in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, etc. So if these aren't enough arguments for North University, I don't know what they'd be. And, of course, three and a half thousand students already studying there. And that, for the same reason, I also support the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107837	Thank you very much. Now we'd move to the point if we had a committee reporter, do they want to take a word? I guess not. Then we're going to the clubs. So, first it will be the club of independent representatives Grubisic, Cain. There isn't? He's losing his right. Next is the club of Croatian Labourists, the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. It's good, it's not bad. Comrade Martincevic, did you see anything from the opposition benches to see? You said a lot today that you didn't see, and maybe you didn't even know when you were sitting in the ruling benches. And it's good that you've talked about it, because we're often in a situation where we want to open important topics that are urgent for our cause, content, and resolution options. But we have to wait a long time to get there. And you've listed your bill. I'm not gonna pick up ours, 'cause I'm tired of it already. I just want to make sure that from this agenda today, the current session by the end of this House will not be discussed at least 40 opposition proposals. That is the norm that the Parliament must achieve to disband and dissipate the elections, and that at least 40 opposition proposals remain undisputed. But this speaks of those who decide on the order of debates, and often the Government is holding back that discussion of not giving opinions or coming parallel to their proposals. Because some things that they recognize as good simply cannot be tolerated without being accepted in public or perceived as opposition proposals. However, when it comes to your text of the law, we will vote each by our conscience. What I only want to resent you for the rest of me won't be, are two things. First, 400 million kuna a year for this fund, and the introduction also said that it should help local self-government reach that part of its own resources on projects that Europe has approved and do not have. With 400 million versus 10 billion and 600 euros, what is that money? What is this fund with 400 million to monitor investment projects approved by the European Commission? You've been underly ambitious, and I'm particularly confused by the concept that this fund would help all investments, and I didn't think you'd put an emphasis on local and regional self-government. I am very reserved and have a holdover towards state funds that would help and monitor and private investment, because whenever someone comes for state money then everyone says it's a public interest, the interest of the people, the interest of the state and then we give money and private investors who soon come to the lists of taxpayers who put on a lie detector and who earn money abroad or invest in other countries. They are of public Croatian interest only when they seek state money. After that, it is a private enterprise in which no one can interfere and touch. That's where I honestly tell you my reserve when it comes to private investors why I'm not easy to give. Local and regional self-government is something else and you're absolutely right. Through the change of the tax model, we financially devastated municipalities, cities and counties to be able to track and secure this money, their own part, which they had when they proposed, wrote and ran programmes. We took it away from them later. And for that reason, there is one I would not say morally but truly an obligation of the state to compensate and provide money to local and regional self-government through the institutions of the system for all projects and programmes approved by the European Commission. Is that what the State Fund needs? I don't think so. And I'll make an argument as to why. Because we're a state, and in six months, trust me, someone will come up with a proposal to set up an agency to monitor the work of that fund. I was in the Parliament, then you weren't in the Parliament, at a time when every week at the end of Friday, we co-ordinated each other's data as much as we set up the agency in Croatia that week. And rarely when we were able to agree that week was there three or five agencies we set up. Each other item of the agenda in the Assembly was the establishment of an agency, a state through the laws, which the government later established. Now it's come to its senses, and it says we have to start connecting it, reducing their numbers. We had an Investment Agency and an Investment Monitoring Agency in our time. You know who proposed those agencies, and then it's these absurdities why I'm reserved for it. The additional reason for my concern is also the fact that yesterday, or today, the state will receive 600 million kunas from public enterprises and those who have run for funding from European funds for their programmes or projects. Which means we'll make them additionally incompetent. And that is the reason for the alarm because all of those projects that public companies have competed with if there is no reserve from where their share will come from, we need to delete from the list of colleagues and colleagues by ruling projects that have the conditions to withdraw funds, which is a fact. The third reason and third question is why do we have HBOR – Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? The recent shift of the head man was explained by the HBOR trying to make the commercial, not the development bank. Isn't it HBOR's job? Didn't the HBOR set up just to do this part of the job? We've got agencies, too. The Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, let's give it the authority of the funds that this agency is going to deal with this business that you're about to do. Or the Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. Or the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of EU Programmes and Projects. Or the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. Someone once apostropheed these problems in the Gorski Kotar example. So we have a Regional Development Agency. Public-private partnership agency. So now I've listed to you five, six state agencies that already exist, which we can always put into operation something we didn't give them when we started them, and in the meantime, there was a need or good suggestions came from anyone. It's rationalization, rational behavior. And rarely when I remember that we have done just that way, that we are giving new powers and tasks to existing institutions, agencies, funds and institutions, and tasks that have, in the meantime, appeared necessary and necessary than we have always gone to create agencies, institutions, funds, services, offices, advices, committees, I don't know what to call them all. And finally, on call meteorologist Sierkovic, it is not Sierkovic but Vujčić when he announced the forecast of the time for the next few years he said that the same day he said that the banks in Croatia will have deposited in the CNB at 0% interest 10 billion kuna of surplus liquidity. 10 billion kunas of surplus liquidity in the CNB with 0% interest that do not go to the economy or local self-government or anywhere. So what kind of state are we? That banks have raised 10 billion surplus liquiditys that are not placed in a situation where investment funds have neither state budget nor local self-government nor regional self-government or public enterprises. And today I came up with the following data, relating to last year. These same banks approved 4 billion kuna loans to companies, businesses in Croatia that had annual incomes from 0 to 6 kuna. In order to avoid confusion I repeat, 4 billion kunas were granted loans to companies that had annual income levels of 0 to 6 kuna, 6 letters and numbers, not 6 thousand, 600 or 6, but 6 kuna. And another six billion kunas granted loans to companies that had up to 100 kuna, 100 figures and letters on an annual basis so as not to be confused again. So 10 billion kunas of credit went to companies with revenues of up to 100 million kuna. I don't know if it's CNB's job to give forecasts and warnings or to do something with executive authority? I do not believe that we are all helpless, that we must accept this only as a fact or accurate data and that this capital that is not imported into Croatia is achieved by these same entrepreneurs, these same municipalities, cities, citizens and they have earned in the state, and the banks have earned in the state as well. That the capital that exists cannot be put into operation but not with interest of 8% but nothing. The governor also warned and said that the decision to take Libor and Euribor as parameters for determining interest rates was harmful, bad and that instead we had to take an interest rate of CNB and nothing happened to anyone. I'm sorry, three days after that, Prime Minister Milanovic said believe me, he won't grow obligations in euros either. Who do we trust now with this prognosticate of macroeconomic data or prime minister? So, I want to say the following obviously money is in Croatia, this data shows that there is. Do we know, do we have the strength, the will of the legislative and regulatory ones in that I mean the CNB to let at least 10% of this excess liquidity go according to the projects approved by the European Commission to secure its own shares of investors? That's what you want to achieve that investors have their own share. And I admit that I didn't know that the state, excuse me, was founded by the government by such a similar fund. You said with a little less resources. The effects and effects of this fund will be zero if the funds in it do not correspond to the amount the local self-government own shares must provide in projects already approved or approved in the course of this year, it simply does not have its own purpose and function if that compensation of what we have taken from them through this fund is not compensated. I'm just curious because in the government's opinion of your proposal for a fund law, nothing has been written by anyone who manages this fund that interests me alive?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107839	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107840	Here's an esteemed colleague of yours, and you've extended the subject to both HBOR and the agencies. I can't do all of this right now, I'm having a little bit of time, and I'm just going to say what you said about the funds, that we were modest and not ambitious enough, that you're right, we went with the idea that the fund is going to start this year, that it starts to work and according to the funding model that we set up, it's clear how the fund is being filled and how the funds should be further increased. We have proposed 400 million kunas and the government finally came out with only 100 million kunas, which is to say, let's just establish that it is likely to show this to the EU that something has been done or that there is an intention to do something about it. I don't know what the reasons were, but here he is now going to be a representative of the SDP, so I would invite him here to explain it to us and maybe to present it to us, there's no one from the government to present to us what the effects and results of the fund are so far. Here's what I think we're all interested in, so let's see what else we can do about some of these things that you've suggested today that they seem very, very constructive to me, so we'd suggest that you make an amendment to my legislative proposal so that the government can decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107841	Thank you. The esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107842	Dear colleagues cannot give an amendment to your bill because it is the first reading. So if most of the Parliament decides to let go of the second reading, then I'll be able to do it. But I suggest you do something else if you go through another reading, then you can put these suggestions that you consider useful into the bill itself, so they'll be part of the proposal, so it's far more effective than I'm writing you the amendments. And I did the subject spread because it just hurts my heart that every day hundreds of people are out of work, companies and entrepreneurs are going bankrupt, over 33,000 workers are not getting paid, 60 and some thousand receive up to 2100 kunas pay or part of the salary that everyone, we are justifiably concerned about the future of the country and about the deficits and especially investment, and then we get the first information that public enterprises will take 600 million kunas of profits, which is why they become virtually incompetent and that banks have 10 billion kuna in HNB at some warehouse with 0% and do not help anyone in Croatia to make any such economic progress. Is that not a crime against both the people and the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107843	Replicu was also owned by distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned at the beginning of your exposure the amount of 400 million kuna that this fund would have at its disposal, and you said so annually and you said what it was you asked about 10.6 billion euros standing in the structural and cohesion funds available to the Republic of Croatia. However, constantly and when I hear the prime minister and when I hear that number, there were even talks about 11.3 billion euros at first, so they cut a little something and eventually it turned out to be 10.6 billion euros. But these are the funds available by 2020. We keep talking about 10.6 as if here they were just caught and transferred to Croatia, but these are the money that is scheduled for withdrawal by 2020. So if we're talking about 400 million kuna and we're 6 years old, then that's 2 billion and 400 million total, 6 times 4, 24 would be by 2020. And even though it would be possible to make 2 billion kunas from those 10 billion and 600 million euros, it's still too little because this is 80 billion kuna, and this is just 2 billion and 400 million that is 20 times less. That's one thing. And these are the data that you have provided with both your mare and your hard work that you have learned are truly astounding. It can't be believed that banks own 10 billion kunas in the CNB deposit at 0% interest and that such a bad credit rating, therefore invalid, and actually they live on it, and so rob the Croatian people...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107845	Thank you. The esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107846	My colleague Boro why I said only 400 million, yes, 10.6 billion by 2020, that's about 2 billion euros a year, and if it's only 10%, it means that partners, investors have to secure only 10% of about 200 million euros a year. And the government said counterpart Martinecevic set up a fund with 100 million, they proposed 400, and it would take 200m euros for 10% of its own funds. ... Well, year after year, it's an asset advantage year after year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But that's why I'm saying that with 400 million or 100 million kuna, we're just going to do that and you're going to see what the government is going to have to deal with this 100 million kuna. Who will exercise the right to these 100 million kunas when that's just 1% of the need? That's what this is about. And now it's depolization or it's going to be a political decision on who's going to get that money for their own share. If we do something, let's make people transparent, honest, and in a way that we know we've made projections, to meet the needs of those projects and programmes that we at least know are already applied to the EU, then we've done a fair job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107847	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear proposings, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the proposalist who was so kind as to say that I'm going to recite now what the government is doing, I'm not going to do it, I'm going to say what my club thinks, I'm going to talk about some examples of practice. And as my colleague Lesar told us, this is a law that is in the first reading, so it's impossible to make amendments, but also not to be decided by the Government but by the Proposer. So maybe I don't know how to recite government projects, but I know a little bit about the Rules of Procedure because it's convenient when you're a representative. So before us is the law proposed by visiting colleague Martincevic, the Law establishing the Fund for Co-financing of Investment Projects. In the assessment of the situation on the basic issues covered by this bill and the consequences of this bill, the Proposer says that the Republic of Croatia has not taken advantage of the possibility of withdrawing funds from EU funds, that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few EU members who did not know how to withdraw funds from EU funds in due time and is currently paying more funds than it is withdrawing, and that the law also regulates how and how to ensure the smooth development of all Croatian regions, and ensure the maximum use of EU funds, and that it will result in the establishment of a fund whose main activity is to carry out co-financing, preparation and development of investment projects previously approved and accepted by the European Commission. So about this family that's being paid, how much is it I've already said something about it in the replica before I'd been held back, but I'm going to tell you why, that is, which is why we're in the SDP's club of representatives according to this bill. The areas proposed by the applicant are already regulated by the provisions of the two laws by the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the EU Structural Investment Funds in the financial period from 2014 to 2020 and the Law on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment. I'm going to give you an example from practice of how it currently works. So, as far as the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds are concerned, the preparation and implementation programme and the development projects eligible for funding from EU funds. In order to create a supply of quality projects and to strengthen the absorption capacity of regional and local levels for the use of EU funds, the said ministry has since 2012 implemented a programme of preparation and implementation of development projects eligible for funding from EU funds. The programme's implementation funds are provided in the state budget. The programme is designed to support the development projects of units of local and regional self-government and to prepare regional and development projects from 35 to 40% of the programme's resources, prepare local development projects in assisted areas and islands from 45 to 50% of the programme's available resources, support the orientation of project ideas acceptable to funding from the EU funds from 7 to 10% of the programme's available and strengthen human potential in local, regional (regional) self-government, which we believe we will agree that one of the most important segments may be. From 2012 to April 2015, the Ministry invested around €31 million, so nearly €32 million in the preparation and implementation of development projects eligible for funding from the European Union funds. In 2012, only 32 project ideas were selected, of which 13 public business or public tourist infrastructure projects were fully prepared to apply to the scheme to grant grants under the operational programme regional competitiveness, i.e. in the last financial cycle of the European Union. The total value of prepared projects is slightly higher than 40m euros. In 2013, 50 project ideas of regional development projects, etc., etc. were selected. Here's an example, so concrete. As part of the programme, the ministry prepared and launched a pilot project "Preparing the foundation for the use of funds from the European Union funds, creating a project base for less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia". The Executive Partners are therefore the Ministry and the United Nations for Development, that is, the United Nations Development Programme. The duration was scheduled until November last year. The budget was 3.5 million kuna. And included counties are Ličko-Senjska, Karlovacka and Sisak-Moslavina. 87 project ideas collected are grouped into a number of categories covering municipal infrastructure and transport, water supply, social infrastructure, entrepreneurship development, new tourism potentials, protection and rescue, incentives for energy efficiency, etc. Here are just a few lists of project ideas for which additional documentation has been made. In Sisak-Moslavina, I will single out 3 projects: "Efficient use of geo-thermal energy at the location of Topusco", "With chestnut through history" and "Creative Energy Zone". In Lika-Senjska: "Geo-Scientific Educational Centre Perusic, Interpretation Communication Centre of cultural historical heritage of the Gacka Valley in Sinac and the Euducation Centre of the Croatian School Outward Bond. Karlovac County, Center for Applied Research and... technology in the field of biotechnology and food technology Plitvice Valley, integrated territorial strategic project development of the tourist destination of Lasinjska kultura, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the Proposer mentioned, has already established a very similar fund, and the plan is to set up two co-financing funds for projects financed thoroughly from EU funds. The first would be intended for all units of local, regional or regional self-government and the second would be intended for less developed units of local, regional or regional self-government. The first fund would also be so-called. So it would be divided into two parts and so on. the prize and intervention part of the fund. The prize fund, which would cover 85 to 90% of the available funds, would be an open call to actually make use of the funds by the system that comes before it gets there. The intervention fund, which would cover between 10% and 15% of the resources available, would be used in the intervention financing of projects or co-financing of projects in difficulty. The second fund, therefore primarily for the less developed which would be intended solely for them, would have a higher share of co-financing than in the first fund and would therefore be financed as a item in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union Funds and would be planned from year to year for this purpose 30 million kuna is foreseen. So in conclusion, because of all the reasons I have already stated, and because of the existing plans, that the legal solutions of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107849	Natalija Martincevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107850	Dear colleague, I must confess that your debate has impressed me. You've read all of this nicely, just what you've read has nothing to do with my legal proposal, so it would be good if you read a legal proposal that you have a debate about, and that would help something. And it would also be good to coordinate your views in the club, namely your colleague Ostojić, a little earlier, as a major object to this law, that it is a matter of excessive regulation, that new bodies, new funds should not be established, new laws should be passed while you are now announcing the establishment of two other funds, and by the criteria, criteria, if you have so imagined as you have read which cannot work at all within the European Union, there is no legal stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107851	Domagoj Hajdukovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107852	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, as far as the club's stand goes, we let us have different views. I'm not like you pointed out in your debate you didn't talk about what had to be done and you could really talk about it for a long time. I was talking about what I thought was important when we assess the need to adopt such a legal solution. And as far as reading is concerned, I can show you, there are mostly hints here and on the papers I have recorded project names where they were realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107853	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107854	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I would agree that it was nice to hear that there are funds to prepare projects and really exist. Here's a lot of examples you've been talking about, so I'd like to get involved with someone from my field of work. In fact, the Ministry of Tourism has a Development Fund. We received 700 thousand kuna from this fund for the construction of project documentation for the construction of the beach in the length of 1600 meters. Also 400 thousand kuna for the production of project documentation for so-called Visitors' centre, which is essentially a county project. It's all very nice, we've done this project documentation, we've moved on somewhere, we've done a little bit less. In any case, here's to editing the beaches we'll have in a few days and confirmation of the main project. It's fine that it's the Tourism Ministry Development Fund. Now, after these and the appropriations and all of this work, we are going back to the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Regional Development to see from which EU funds will be able to finance construction because we know that these are millions. The arrangement of beaches is amounting to over 30 million kuna and we are not able to finance ourselves or the resources of the state budget and we address as I said at the door of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Regional Development. The answer we get is that it is questionable whether they will be able to finance such projects at all, and even less from which funds they will be financed. In my opinion, if it wasn't possible and if we didn't know it would be possible to finance from EU funds, then why go into project documentation in the first place. The money has been spent, the time has been spent, and the realization will unfortunately not be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107855	Domagoj Hajdukovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107856	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Martincevic, who made me an optimist amongst the positions. I wouldn't say I'm an optimist, I think at least I'm trying to be realistic and I'm sorry, or I'm going to optimisticly argue that I believe that such examples will be no more. But what is very important and you have now encouraged me perhaps something I failed to say in the main debate, and that is also the capacitation of the units of local self-government, but also the entrepreneurship to say so to the unit of local self-government in the very formation of idea projects. I'm very glad to hear that you in Vodice have a vision of how you want to develop your place, but unfortunately here, and in your practice, I have come across a whole series of mayors, mayors who don't have that kind of vision, so they have no idea where to go at all. So I think you're definitely on the right track. And what's another problem with the European Union funds is the retroactive return of funds, you know that yourself. So you've received money immediately from the approved project before and after the project has been implemented and after you've been audited, if it's more than 100 000 euros or 70,000 euros, now I don't know by heart, so your funds would be irrevocable. However, now the situation is different, i.e. now that the project has been successfully done and I believe that there is both a large role and an HBOR, but also all supporting institutions, that many units of local self-government that receive different projects help to finance them or implement them. We have examples of a city in Osijek-Baranja County that has received so many projects that now, therefore, they did not expect so many to pass, that they are now struggling to finance them all. I'd like to discuss such examples the more we listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107857	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107858	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So it's actually very difficult to discuss one of these laws when at the same time in Croatia it's popular to say that we have too much of everything, and funds, and agencies, etc. And then a man asks himself one just like this... question about how you even talk about a fund like this. However, what I would like to say is an idea that is good and convenient, but the fact and circumstances in which Croatia is located and the initiative is determined if it goes from Brussels still points to other things. What is a fact is that we are definitely not well prepared in Croatia to withdraw funds from the European Union funds. That's definitely it. How the state, so units of local self-government, I don't speak private sector. And we're obviously, many haven't had a chance to be on the promotion of so-called. Junker's plan when he was vice president of the commission, when he spoke about 315 billion euros, but he was then talking exclusively about the money intended for the private sector. And in general, what is happening at this point in the financial market, why is the time of historically low interest rates is that the private sector has practically stopped because of all the bad experiences in the past, because of fear and risk, there is virtually no investment. And what with a commendable proposal leaves me in doubt about this law because it simply can't be for all because it makes sense if banks commercially have enough money that they have interests to finance certain projects whether they're from their clients or with certain projects that they're going to evaluate and assess are good and they're cost-effective. And I think that, first of all, the government should have thought about a model in general when the project for a particular project approved funds that practically the funds go directly from Brussels to whoever credited the project. What this fund should be concerned about and what might have been in it, which is now not highlighted, are primarily units of local self-government of poorer fiscal capacity and certain private projects that do not have the basis for obtaining loans to finance the project. And such a fund should be discussed because it will have to be established. It is certain that such projects will be innovative, quality from individuals, from entrepreneurs, in fact, from young entrepreneurs who are just beginning and who will have nothing to advocate in order to practically finance the project and receive funding from the European Union. But when you look at what the government suggested, the government proposed a clean alibi fund. Because if you're planning on actually getting a couple of dozen billion kunas from European funds and you're predicting a fund with an initial capital of 100 million then it's obvious that it's some kind of alibi fund. However, we have talked here about the new function of the HBOR and is now asking here one elemental question, should the HBOR as a state-owned export investment bank have one segment to deal with this area, and in the European Union the pandan of HBOR is the European Investment Bank. Was the government supposed to go in that direction with legislation because it was likely that it was going in that direction then colleague Martincevic and her club would not have proposed this law. But as a man who spends his whole life in finance. The law is quite normably poor. Going to the foundation of a fund that should have several billion kuna in the future, that practically nothing is defined is neither smart nor good at all. The other thing is to be honest with you, what resources are we going to fill this fund from, from which funds? I don't want to be incorrect, I'm in opposition, so I can say whatever I want, but I just want to be realistic, be realistic first of all towards those who are supposed to be users of this fund tomorrow. So the state budget definitely can't set aside a billion kuna. Why? So when you look at the positions of the Ministry of Finance, then you'll see that almost 900 million kunas stand out for various HBOR programmes. So this would be something that would be extra. The other thing is, it's not one-time funds. These funds, which should practically be renewed in the first three, four years until those first funds are recovered, could then be further financed by those initial funds in that return, and this may be a lack of development within the first two, three years of the existence of the fund that should be. Because the logical thing is that funds should be recovered in two or three years at least from EU funds. The second thing is, we need to figure out what's going on with that part of our own funding. Because it's very hard for the fund to cover that part too, because that part, whether it's its own component, is 25 or 30 or 35 percent. The one who got that loan can't get it back in two, three years. So he needs a longer period and that's what needs to be indicated here. Because we are no longer talking about a fund that is unilaterally financing something, but a fund that finances a single project, and this project has passed the competition in Brussels and some of these funds will return. And that part of the funds is not at all controversial. So he'll be back in a year or two, depending on how much the project needs to be completed. However, the problem in this part of its own component is what with these funds, which will be the deadline for returning these funds and which is the interest rate. Because if you're giving out interest-free funds in this first part of your life you can go, it opens up the question of illegal support. Because those funds have to be practically available to everyone. So, a series of questions that are being opened by this law. However, I sincerely hope that business banks in the Republic of Croatia will start to behave differently. Because all this money that they have at this point will have to be placed somewhere. They can last a year, two, three years not to place them. Later, however, these funds will simply be too expensive for them and will have to be placed in a certain way. And they will certainly look for space at the beginning of quality programs. But let's be realistic every programme that passes the EU filter is of quality. Because if the EU has said that it is something that is good, then whoever implements the programme only has to be careful to stick to the rules of the game, spend money in accordance with the programme that it has passed, and it is guaranteed that it will be returned to 65 or 70 or how much funding it will already be. However, a real question is being raised whether it is being financed from here or whether the project should be taken over by business banks. Because I repeat this text simply from the bad experiences of previous years does not offer that answer. But I'm saying it's good that this idea started, because then it encouraged the government to start something, some money from this, even though being honest with each other is not something that should be satisfied. Because I think the key problem at this point in Croatia is not even this, but the problem is that Croatia has no capacity and potential to develop programmes with which it will run for EU funds. And that's the biggest problem. So, let me finish, so I don't owe any more. The idea as an idea is to support it, but as a man who used to do a state budget in this situation is simply, it wouldn't be fair and correct against some others who go to the responsibility to say it's like that, because let's be honest with this money there isn't. And the Croatian Parliament, according to our Rules of Procedure, cannot pass a law for which no funds are provided. So, although it often happens that the ruling coalition raises its hand for something. Therefore, as an idea it is good and the Croatian Democratic Community club, because of the bill's proposal, due to indeterminateness, could go further here's the technical details. But I don't think there's any point in keeping around this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107859	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107860	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow MPs at this late session. We're going to talk a little bit about the party's legislative proposal on the establishment of a fund for co-financing of investment projects. What got me caught up in this text is that the funds will be distributed evenly throughout Croatia and will allow for the balance of projects and implementation of projects throughout Croatia. However, when we read Article 3 of this legislative proposal, I am not firmly convinced of the sentence of equality, so development through the exploitation of EU funds and this fund throughout Croatia. Why do I say that? Because it says the fund is founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government makes 20 ministers, as many as there are, 20, 21, 22 I don't know. Furthermore, the founding rights and duties on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and are based in Zagreb. Given the experience that has brought Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem into the situation so far, according to the current calculations now in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem of 127 units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities, 117 of them are in the zone of underdevelopment or development up to 75% of the average of the development of the Republic of Croatia. So this is what the speaker before me said that more attention should be paid to the adoption of such acts if it were to be brought, so in one of the articles of this legislative proposal, to the fact that these funds are mostly related to projects that have been adopted naturally in the EU, which relate precisely to these municipalities. I'm not such a localpatriot to root out, but the fact is that 117 municipalities and cities of 127 in Slavonia and Baranja are in a position to say the one by the former vocabulary in the degree of underdevelopment relative to the average of the Republic of Croatia. The government, which passed almost identical laws, could be said that the government is sitting in the Lower Resava, so it prescribed the law that you proposed in the 9th month, in September of last year, so when they saw it, they were like the Miladin brothers who prescribed it, but they set a stake of 100 million kuna, which is really to say criminally little. And yet when we look at how and where and where to secure these 400 million kunas, then here we can all think that in a situation where the budget deficit is 19 billion kuna, when public debt is 285 billion kuna or 85% of GDP, how to secure these 400 million kunas, even though I said earlier in the replica that it is little compared to 11.6 billion euros of possible funds that we can withdraw from EU cohesion and structural funds. Here someone mentioned, in fact more speakers, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which could, but I should say very quickly one restructuring also deals with business as compared to the European Investment Bank, so that the HBOR, which has 900 million kuna at its disposal, also has some department to say come to EU projects. It's all nice and wonderful, but here's the situation where this budget deficit in the situation of total poverty, when Croatia doesn't have enough professional capacity to write projects, of course, and for the withdrawal and other projects from the EU, we're in a situation where, let's say, in Slavonia, starting with the Gundins who had three choices, it's a unique case, so Bebrina and I don't know who, know those who are from Slavonia yes, who have a budget of 2.5 million kuna. How will they co-finance any project? How will the documentation be prepared or organised with a budget of €2.5 million when we know what their obligations are in local self-government. Not at all! Simply those who are richer in the Republic of Croatia, I'm talking about local self-government, for example. Varazdin County and County in northwestern Croatia have an average of 68% compared to the EU's development index. The city of Zagreb has 120%, and Slavonia has 35% of its development in these municipalities compared to the EU. So it may be much easier to finance projects in Varazdin County, Zagreb, without talking about human equipment and 30% as you said Mrs. Martincevic about 30% higher education with higher and high professional training in the City of Zagreb. So, in one of our Bebrinas, in one of our Gundins, in one of the pillars that our Vice-President of the Parliament knows, is it where she went to school, that she knows everything, yes, to enable projects and withdrawals of EU funds at all? Well, then this line on even development, so this fund would allow for even development, I don't have much faith. So I have no faith that this will be the case, mainly from the experience that all the governments of the Republic of Croatia have spent so far, that Slavonia remains truly the poorest, Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, the poorest end of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is even difficult to imagine that the ruling Kukuriku coalition will provide and listen to the establishment of a fund with 400 million kuna, given that we see the situation in HBOR and since it is likely that a colleague will be re-established as well as this fund, and he would be under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps also the Agency to monitor the work of the Fund, so another new agency, another new fund, or as the Bureau has already said, the board, ask the Council what God has no names, institute or I don't know what, it's hard to assume that ruling will agree to this legislative proposal, but here we will follow. I wish that, if these two settings were achieved, which you so on several occasions emphasized in your text, I would now not quote articles, precisely on the equality of development and that we would be financially, fiscally stronger to withdraw projects from the EU. That'd be great. And as for this withdrawal of funds that you have stated, so 3.6 billion kuna is paid, 3 billion are withdrawn from the issue that in these 3.6 billion kuna and that compensation for radiological nuclear security which additionally burdens the budget of the Republic of Croatia in its application for fees in EU membership, so all this has just come up with this minus that you've been talking about, and it's mostly silent and nobody's talking about it. So, and the HDSSB club here to cheer you up will be for this proposal if perhaps only an explanation if there is a second reading, in that second reading, if a deadline is defined to return funds to that fund, which is an initial amount of 400 million kuna, an interest rate for giving funds and some more details that would be, which would define the operations of that fund, so precisely, clearly and loudly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107861	Natalija Martincevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107862	Here's my thanks to the HDSSB Club for supporting this bill. It has been mentioned several times today, so I haven't replicated it every time, but the questions are from where to get the funds, from where to get those 400 million kunas? So today, starting with today's Parliament session, we had a break where several parliamentary deputies talked about a number of agencies, a number of unnecessary spending. All year round, we've been discussing train parks, tires, whatnot. So here we are, in the bill of law, cited for the financial year where these funds are allocated, so that the fund is launched and I think it's pretty clear and explained, and I said in the debate how the fund works further and how the fund is filled. Just so that if the EU finances projects with 60, 70 or 85%, then only when it starts an investment on VAT gets a 25% return through our tax system and you get through our tax system when the investment starts, you get everything that the state has invested in, the state through this tax system that we have today gets all paid back. This fund idea doesn't get spent on something, it doesn't spend money on something, so you're funding something that's starting some kind of project. Some companies are employed in the project, with these companies co-operatives, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, people work in these craftsmen. So you run the investment cycle, you run the economy this way. And yes, we just need to think about how to increase this fund even further and, with the resources, increase significantly so that the effects of this fund are even greater. So this was complicated within those possibilities as far as we have now estimated that it is possible to realize. But it is this fund that will enable this even development because these units that do not have the means and which do not have the capacity to finance anything based on this fund actually get a chance without it having no chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107863	Thank you. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107864	Thank you very much. My colleague Martincevic, the government should really make honest and real reforms and public administrations and these agencies that we talked about and we see that nothing happens, only excise duties on cigarettes and fuel increase and nothing else. If these are reforms then it's really hard to expect to create a 400 million kuna fund, and we know that the budget is so tense as a harmonica in the maximum range. So it's hard to expect the government to cut down on the Agency's reforms this year and everything we've been saying so much to create that 400 million kuna fund. Here are two years in a row when the Republic of Croatia's budget is being discussed by the number of items for ministry information. Do you know how much in the last two years, so in 2013 and 2014 has been spent to inform the ministries? From 500 to 600 million kuna. I wish we'd spent some of that money in this fund. Well, I don't know how many PCs, computers, etc. anymore. We know what information and technique is that... and this can also be done from the EU. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But unfortunately, he doesn't seem to have any ideas or will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107865	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107866	Dear Madam Vice President, Proposer, colleagues and colleagues here, I will look very briefly at this bill. Namely, we will welcome, I will welcome on behalf of the CNS every initiative, or any idea that comes to our assembly clubs here, especially when we have the opportunity to talk about how we can improve some systems in our country and that we can discuss anything else that is not good in the whole system. This is specifically about investment or investment from European funds in potential projects. However, what will deter us in HNS from supporting such a law is that we do not think at this time that the key problem is in the fund or in the means that should be provided in advance for the financing of such projects, because simply the amount of projects that has been reported and which is also ongoing, or which will be reported, are not at this point with some great certainty in the ability to interpret how much it will be. So what would possibly be if we were to withdraw all the funds for that we certainly don't have the means to secure them in the state budget, and an estimate of how long it will be by the end of this year or by the end of maybe next year, I don't think it's something that has to be part of a budget or a fund like this law, and it needs to be part of a budget within the competent ministry, which is at this point the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds. And I am convinced that for the smaller units of local self-government most talked about here that do not have fiscal capacity that there will be opportunities and that there will be opportunities for these projects to be co-financed as we all have opportunities to address the HBOR, as well as local self-government units, as well as business banks. What we are more concerned about in HNS at this point is whether we or whether local self-government units will succeed in producing enough projects, quality projects to pass in competitions. I would say that it is not up to the fund, or it is not just about the financial resources, although it is up to them, and I, or the CNS, would advocate that more intensive efforts are made to finance projects that have a complete dossier that have a chance to pass through operational programmes, and not to provide advance funds for something that we do not even know whether it will be attracted or whether it will be obtained. And we also know that the units of local self-government in candidate countries according to EU funds will run to a lesser extent for large projects that you have spoken about in the type of sewerage, the type of large infrastructure projects, because these infrastructure projects will be taken over by public companies engaged in this process in Croatia and they will be carriers such as Croatian Waters, Croatian Railways and other public companies that are in charge of building such infrastructure and it is planned to withdraw these funds and, of course, will be financially monitored by the state. What I'm about to say is a bigger problem and what's already a problem is whether local self-government units by the end of this year are going to be able to prepare quality projects by the end of the year, but because they don't have enough administrative capacity or knowledge to translate it, and then maybe they don't have enough money to pay these projects to build them consulting houses. I think at this point, we should do the most work to help local self-government units. I also think that business banks, and I know they're being offered because I'm the head of a local self-government unit very well-intentioned, or they want to co-operate exactly on such projects, and I don't think there's gonna be any bigger problems for the financial monitoring of projects when they get it. So the only way to get the project is to guarantee the bank that the money will arrive because the projects that are done according to the model of the European model are projects that must guarantee advance success. So what, of course, opens up a whole series of issues here, and I think one of the solutions that we all talked about here because we stopped at it because the overall financial situation and the economic situation in Croatia wasn't like that a year ago, two days ago, to go with that lead, which is a question of decentralisation, it's a matter of fiscal decentralisation. I think that all of us at the local and county level are sick of these debates about how much someone will give us for something and where we're going to pray for it rather than really starting with economic growth or better economic indicators in decentralisation to move towards redistribution of income in a way that units of local self-government are enough to themselves in terms of financing these projects. Is there anything else to say? I think it was a good intention, but I don't know if there's anything to be done until the next reading. However, to set up at this point a fund that has its own administration and its director and its administrative council, at the moment that we have a guide to de facto abolish them or to bring together the various agencies that we have established, and we have also established them because in some way the EU has dictated it to us and yet we will have to connect them now, we think it is not economical, and we do not think it is a good message at this point in time when we have to execute quite large cuts and large savings on the public administration. It means the question of good projects for me mostly for local self-government units and whether we have them. I don't know maybe, you know, colleagues, if any of the good projects that went through by the local self-government unit or regional self-government couldn't finance it on their own? I don't know about that. Finally, we have several colleagues who are mayors who are very successful in project implementation. I didn't hear that they had problems. They had more problems preparing projects, with some of our other problems structurally which we have, and this is a matter of ownership and a question of course in smaller units of local self-government of human resources to bring out projects not only in terms of filling out applications but in general building projects, I don't know architectural projects, spatial planning documentation and everything that is a prerequisite for the project to be valorised as a European project. So here's the misery now I'm talking about a whole series of problems that follows this problem, it's good to talk about it, and in that sense this bill is also commended, but I'm not sure we can correct it as proposed until the next reading so that the Croatian People's Party club can accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107867	Natalija Martincevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107868	Your Honor, you were saying here that you were against, or that you disagreed for no more reason, that you were therefore against the establishment of this fund. However, I must remind you that the fund was founded, founded by the government and its establishment was supported by HNS ministers in the government. So that's the part we solved then. Therefore, it would be good if the law had been discussed before the founding of the fund so that it could be seen that there are different opinions and different views within your party. Secondly, your concern about which projects would be financed, which would not and would be criteria written in the legislative proposal, and I have pointed out several times in the debate that the criterion is only one very clear and precise and clean, and these are all the projects approved by the European Union. So there is not much confusion that projects would be co-financed, which would not be co-financed. So there were several times in your debate, too, that some money might be spent. So that's not where the money's being spent, that's where the money's being given and processed. So every project you run, it doubles back into the budgets and units of local self-government and into the state budget itself. So that's another thesis. And, well, here I think it's from what you said that I responded to more or less of the vagueness. Yes, you said more about public companies that it should invest public companies, that, absolutely, public companies certainly not only in a way that the government is now taking a complete profit and all the funds for investment and getting into the budget, so we won't invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107869	Comrade Martincevic, would you like to speak finally? Natalija Martincevic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107870	Here's the best I'd like to thank everyone for a good and constructive discussion. I've noted all the remarks, it was especially by Mr. Shucker's very high-quality remarks on the very text of the law. The law for second reading will be complemented and completed and I expect the support of all MPs with this good and quality legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107871	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107872	Proposal for a law establishing a Fund for Co-financing of Investment Projects, first reading, P.Z. No. 738. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the establishment of an Investment Project Co-financing Fund proposed by attorney Natalija Martincevic for the reasons set out in the reports of the working bodies and opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted." Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 73 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and 4 votes against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107873	And tonight we will also discuss: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 755 – Proposer Mirela Holy; You received the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. And now I'm asking my colleague, Myrell Holly, to explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107874	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, I've prepared a presentation to make it perhaps a little more interesting for you. We don't have a lot of numbers. It's my desire to present this law a little bit through the hemp education because I suppose some of the things I'm about to tell you today are probably not familiar. So this is a relatively short and simple bill that proposes full liberalisation and legalisation of hemp in the Republic of Croatia and that of both those industrial hemps and Indian hemps. I believe that the attitude to this issue in Croatia is very hypocritical because, ultimately, we have the permission to use, for example, opium preparations that are far more additive than hemp, and hemp products are not even used in pharmaceutical products according to the law. It is also unlikely that far more additive than hemp or hemp have, for example, tobacco and alcohol that are fully legal in the Republic of Croatia and cause very negative social consequences. For example, if you are going to talk to people who are working on emergency care, ask yourself if they have ever received someone in toxic condition from the consumption of Indian hemp, or marijuana, and you will only get one answer no. Because it's actually not possible. And if you ask them if during their practice they have had the opportunity to receive emergency people who come in toxic conditions due to alcohol consumption, you will get the answer, that every day we get an extremely large number of people who come in toxic and very severe toxic conditions from alcohol consumption and that happens with nicotine consumption, or from smoking. Therefore, the fact that our society is particularly hypocritical of the issue of hemp consumption is what I now say to Indian hemp, but what very large societies do not know is that even industrial hemp in the Republic of Croatia is not fully liberalised or in accordance with the Law on the control of drug abuse and the Regulation on hemp brought by the Ministry of Agriculture is possible in Croatia only for food purposes and for humans and animals. I'll start the presentation now. So these are some facts related to hemp. So hemp is one amazing thing I would say is a plant that is characterized by distinct strength, elasticity, resistance, and indeed a very large application in different industries. It can be used as you can see according to these images for the production of ropes and ropes, then for the production of textiles and really different types of textiles. The estimates suggest that hemp can produce more than 25,000 different products throughout the whole range of industries. So fire equipment is also based on hemp products. Then the automotive industry, it's probably quite an unknown fact as well as the space industry also very much uses hemp products. This is some information related to the seed yield, so we have yields from 600 to 1300 kg per hectare. The oil content is up to 30% and is absolutely applicable and high-quality for human consumption. It is also used in the production of paints and varnishes, so in the chemical industry. Then the yield of biomass and flowers is as you can see quite high and absolutely all parts of the plant can be used, and I'm afraid we skipped a pretty large part of the presentation that was. In fact, hemp is an extremely old plant. The first traces of hemp are found in the Far East, China, 10,000 years ago. Sometime in Europe, hemp products are first found in archaeological findings 5500 years old, and the first hemp law was passed by Carlo the Great about 800 years old. For this reason, because of the remarkable good characteristics of hemp as fertile plants that were already observed at that time and which is very good at remediating soils or preparing soils for the sowing of certain cultures, the law required the population to sow hemp. So as far as growing in Croatia is concerned, I mentioned earlier, when we talk about industrial hemp can only be produced for the sole purpose of producing food for humans and animals and in order to have the opportunity to do so at all, you have to get a special permit from the Ministry of Agriculture. From year to year, farmers’ interest in industrial hemp is increasing, so that, if I am not mistaken, nearly 700 hectares of hemp was being sown in 2014 and that interest is growing from year to year. When we talk about varieties, unfortunately Croatia no longer has its own indigenous variety of industrial hemp. This variety was known as Fleischman. It is unfortunately after growing industrial hemp was banned in Croatia in the early 1990s, and otherwise what is characteristic of this type of Fleischman that the share of THC in Fleischman was even up to 8%, which tells you in itself that it is not easy to separate industrial hemp from Indian hemp. Otherwise, when I talk about hemp subtypes because it's one of those same plants, we have three main subtypes of hemp. We have this canabis attivu, or industrial hemp, we have a canabis indica or Indian hemp and we have canabis ruderalis, it's wild hemp and all of course can be raised normally in these conditions in Croatia. Therefore, according to the Law on the Prevention of Intoxication of Drugs, it is allowed to mean that for agricultural purposes only those varieties of industrial hemp which have up to 0,2 THC shares. I already mentioned this earlier, so from the hemp, we primarily think of industrial hemp, 25 000 useful products can be produced, and in the case of the adoption of this law, complete liberalisation of industrial hemp, so not only seeds can be used but all parts of the plant, such as leaves, stems and even fluid seeds. So what's characteristic of our society is that, according to hemp and here, I'm not just talking about Indian hemp, it's spread a lot of prejudice and often hemp is treated like extremely dangerous drugs and people in Croatia are not at all informed about the truly great economic potentials of hemp. But not only are the economic potentials of hemp present, but hemp is indeed in all its forms a highly sustainable plant because it also works very well on environmental aspects in terms of soil remediation itself. It's my impression that it's not known that after having had a nuclear power plant in Fukushima, it's come to this day that it's being restored in fact and purifying the soil around Fukushima just by planting hemp. Which is why hemp develops THC and cannabinoids. Namely, cannabinoids are a defence mechanism of hemp plants and if hemp is sown under certain environmental conditions that are unhealthy it increases the share of THC in the plant itself because that way the plant itself defends itself from bad environmental conditions. So also industrial hemp depending on the conditions in which the plant can be planted can have a far greater share of THC than that allowed by 0.2%. The tavern is still heavily explored. For example, Israel went farthest in the medical use of Indian hemp. They have specialized clinics where therapists treat their patients in an individual way through various preparations produced from Indian hemp and it can be of course by means of oil that is mostly consumed as a marked preparation that has beneficial health effects, but also used through smoking depending on the diagnosis. What is very problematic and what we can finally meet in Croatia is that the prohibition of cannabis itself, i.e. Indian marijuana, leads to an increase in crime. Therefore, according to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Croatia in 2006 there were 4704 drug-related offences. Of them, 62.9% were associated with Indian hemp, while in 2012, that share was even higher and there were as many as 72.9% of cases associated with Indian hemp. Of course prohibition is never a good option. In the end, history has also shown when alcohol prohibitions in the United States were ruled and there were far the largest number of alcoholics in the United States than ever before or later. Therefore, to prevent the consumption of certain substances, it is not good to go with prohibition but to go with education. Why is prohibition bad? Because it causes extremely high costs for the state budget, because the police naturally pursue people who deal with the sale of such substances, and unfortunately those people who because of their diseases grow several stems of Indian hemp often end up under the hands of the state, although the consumption of hemp oil often means the possibility of living at all. For example, when we came up with the idea of legalizing Indian hemp, it was not for us that the largest number of people who came to us were those who advocated the recreational consumption of marijuana, but far the largest number of people who contacted us was the very people who had the sick and who had the quality of life because of the consumption of preparations from Indian hemp to a large extent raised the quality of life, and reduced the pain and made life easier. We are not talking about that marijuana is a universal medicine that treats everyone, but the fact that so far over 700 scientific research has shown beneficial effects of Indian hemp on a whole series of diseases, i.e. the treatment of a whole series of diseases. There are naturally present carcinomas, then very often mentioned multiple sclerosis. Here it is, we had a debate about it last week, and indeed many people who suffer from this severe disease say that to a very large extent, the quality of life and the general existence enables them to just consume Indian hemp. So why is full liberalisation and legalization of hemp important? If it only goes to the liberalisation of industrial hemp, I'm afraid it won't be possible to gain full effect in, meaning economic, in terms of environmental protection, but also in the social sense of this extremely potent plant that has a very long tradition in the Republic of Croatia. So it's about traditional culture. Croatia, or the former state, was the second to produce industrial hemp all over the world. Our people, our industry has very great knowledge regarding the processing of this culture and it is certain that one part of the growth of the economy can definitely be based on both full liberalisation and legalisation of hemp in all its aspects, including in the development of the pharmaceutical industry. So these are just some examples of the possibility of using Indian and industrial hemp. So when we talk about industrial hemp, there is a great opportunity in the construction sector where concrete is produced from hemp which is far more environmentally acceptable and is far more resistant than classical concrete. Then, the paper industry, the production of hemp paper, is far more environmentally acceptable than wood production. We already mentioned the food industry, so a whole series of products that can be produced from hemp. The textile industry, also mentioned. The pharmaceutical industry, in the manufacture of drugs, is definitely an Indian hemp that is a highly potent plant for the development of the pharmaceutical industry. The cosmetics industry, then the chemical industry that are composites means of hemp is produced by a kind of bio-plastic. It is then also possible in energy for the production of bioenergy crops. And, of course, it can strongly lead to the promotion of regional development and, in particular, in those areas of Croatia that are today poor, I am thinking primarily of Slavonia. Therefore, it has an extremely large positive role in the landscape and biodiversity, and therefore our goal should be to enable both industrial and Indian hemp to grow, and that we have a value of 15,000 hectares by 2025 and that Croatia is positioned as one of the leaders of industrial hemp production on the European market. We think a good brand can be made out of hemp and it can be grown by organic hemp. In fact, hemp does not require a very large amount of different agrochemicals, even more can be grown without agrochemicals, which means that there is a very high potential for organic hemp cultivation. So there are also a lot of big and good preconditions for using European funds and a whole series of funds and, of course, from this for rural development, but also for science both for technology and the like. I've already said this about the very great possibility of phyto-mediation by hemp crops. And this, of course, is important because it's actually very difficult to go to legalization, or the liberalisation of industrial hemp, without even legalizing Indian hemp. Therefore, it is not true what is said in the government's view that international rules prohibit the legalisation of hemp. That's not true. Therefore, according to the International Convention or UN Convention of 1960, the States to the signatories of the Convention are allowed to legalise hemp. With her being under state control. Which, of course, is possible by means of a state office or a state body. My proposal is if it were to go in this direction to use the already existing Medicines Agency which could get additional powers in terms of controlling the trade in these products. This, of course, leads to economic growth, and what is very important if it is going in this direction should be prohibited from growing genetically modified hemp crops on which Monsanto normally works very intensively. It is important, of course, to set quality standards and to adapt the health system to what modern scientific research says about health benefits from Indian hemp. There are, of course, possible domestic and foreign investments. Here we go, slowly approaching the end. Therefore, this would also lead to an increase in the number of OPGs, then to greater employment, which is necessary in any case, to increasing agricultural resources, to a system of fertility, which is of particular importance and to further processing, of course, through increasing the numbers of medium and small economic operators in these activities. Of course, the investment investment that we need is, of course, ecological farming is something that gives added value and rural development because we also need, of course, a demographic recovery, and this type of economy would certainly attract a younger population to go away to live in rural areas. And of course raising awareness of the various benefits this culture provides. Looks like we've come to an end. There's been a bit of a bump with this, but I hope you got a picture. So, a little short bill of only three articles. Unfortunately, there's one mistake. I will warn you that although I am sure that other colleagues will look back on this, Article 1 states in paragraph 5 that by the Hemp Act, of course the competent ministry cannot pass the Hemp Act. He can suggest it and the Croatian Parliament can adopt it. So the important intensity of this law, the intensity of this law, is to go to full legalisation and liberalisation both indian and industrial hemp because it is a plant that has a very high potential, potential in economic terms, environmental potential and social potential. In this sense, too, industrial industrial hemp can be called sustainable plants in the right sense. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107875	Thank you very much. Do they want to know who has a replica? Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is not the Club of Independent Representatives of colleagues Grubisic and Cain, not present, losing the right to debate on this point. And on behalf of the Independent Left-handed Club, a colleague of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107876	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what my colleague Holly said the law was really short, three articles and I'm supposed to be short for that. A colleague explained some of the problems immediately at the outset about the effects of marijuana on tobacco and alcohol. So you should consider that there's some tradition here in our neighborhood that it's normal to consume domestic products... Yeah, yeah, but there's probably some kind of lobby impact, an industry that I don't want to say, that hemp production just pushed into another plan. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The very fact that here she is with her colleague just a little while ago, we were just commenting on it, and I remember as a child, and a colleague says the same thing about how sometimes in those parts and over there at Slavonia and me, how much that hemp was growing and how many people actually kept to it. Which is why, under the influence of what has come to be a simple repression, there is likely to be an impact that simplifying the technology with plastics and similar materials simply pushed through the processing of hemp, but now we are in a situation where we can sort of correct it if there is good will. My colleague Holly mentioned that, once the former state had been second in the world, I have come to the data that the former Yugoslavia was among the five producers and exporters of hemp in the world. It doesn't matter, in any case whether or not the second, whether or not the fifth so clearly meant a lot in these areas. I found the same data, say, for what some countries in the world use it for. So let's say in China textiles, nutrition, seed exports, Canada cosmetics and nutrition, Romanian seed exports, Swedish buildings, thermal insulation and biomass for heating, French paper industry the same as in Slavonia as the colleague mentioned, Hungarian seed exports, etc. etc. What confused me was the government's opinion, which is now a colleague found that it essentially contains a lot of inaccuracies. I have to admit that I've never dealt with it, so I can't argue whether this or that's true, but speaking of which, it wouldn't surprise me that my colleague is right and that the government's opinion is supported by, if necessary, arguments, or we're currently answering it, so let's just say so, it's up to others to prove that they're telling the truth. So it's not up to us to prove someone's lying. It's up to someone else to tell the truth. What moved me from the beginning was that my colleague had the opportunity to present her bill, not because she had the opportunity, but because a few months behind me proposed this bill, a few months before her I proposed some other law that had not yet come to the agenda and who knows when and whether she would. The first thing that occurred to me was two policy options given the historical circumstances, but I will not guess, I will assume that I will leave it to some others but I would like to see if it will happen in the meantime, given the government's view that the ruling majority categorically rejects this bill, and then before the elections itself comes out with a proposal that is likely that the population that is interested will embrace it in its electoral body and we have done two jobs at the same time. Considering everything so far, I'm sure it wouldn't surprise me. I skipped another part of it, I was a decade ago at a spirits festival that was organized by the local Lag in Sunja, and at which he organized a round table on which they had the opportunity to take their experiences out to organic food producers, there was a hemp grower at the Court of the Union, he emphasized it to me, always stressing the Court of the Union because Una was the concept of a clean river. And now that we get, or after this version has appeared with the disposal of nuclear waste in the Trade Mountain, which is next to the Court of the Union of Military Cherkezovac, I'm afraid it will be difficult, regardless of what is true and the harmfulness of that radioactive waste, but I'm afraid no one will be able to have an advertisement anymore, we're selling an organic clean product with a storage of nuclear waste or radioactive waste. So I appeal once again to whoever suggested this proposal to consider whether there might be another location, some other solution that this might not be the happiest. Otherwise this climate, this area has been given to God precisely for organic production, organic agriculture and, among other things, the organic production of hemp. As far as I'm concerned that there's been a dispute between whether or not Indian hemp and whether or not to be allowed for medical purposes at all, I have to admit that I'm alone in the dilemma of how to control it, distribution, traffic. Is there likely to be an abuse as a tobacco abuse arises, so we have a black tobacco market, which is now very current. But I've only had two, three times I've had the opportunity to look at all the TVs that contribute to people who are at risk of health, who have major health problems, which means they can use this hemp. If you're in that situation, I trust these people, then you'll pull for any means at all, but looking at the side like this never hurt a slap on someone's cheek, so we can discuss it the way you look at it is a great possibility of abuse. If 10, 15, 20, I have no idea how many of these people there are, if we help them, if we make life easier for them through this, I'm seeing you as a model of some chemical pharmaceutical industry right now. It's natural, so no matter how much we keep quiet about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107877	A colleague of Mirela Holly's on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107878	Very short. In fact, you are probably familiar with the fact that relatively recently some states in the United States have legalized Indian hemp not only for medical purposes but also for personal purposes, so it is also possible for citizens to grow plants for their own purposes. And despite all the warnings that this would lead to an increase in crime and crime rates, to an increase in traffic accidents and the like, it happened exactly the opposite. Thus, statistical indicators after a year since the legalized cannabis in Arizona in Colorado show very positive results and that there has been a reduction in the number and criminal activities associated with drug trafficking, and that there has been a reduction in the number of traffic accidents. And I would agree with my colleague Novak, I think it's a policy obligation and people who are involved in politics to help, not get back. And if it really shows that consumption of Indian hemp is good and beneficial for a whole series of people suffering from severe illness, then it's really not up to us as politicians to make it impossible for them to live or at least to live a better and more decent life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107879	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107880	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. It was a very comprehensive presentation prepared by our proposing colleague, Holly. Of course we know about the benefits and economic usability we know, but I will look back on the experience of using marijuana for medical purposes with a review of not only European countries, but also, let's say, an American institute. So the American Institute of Medicine under the authority of the National Academy of Science conducted a study on the medical effects of marijuana, and determined that cannabis can actually be very helpful for cancer and ADIS, which you were talking about, reducing and removing severe pain and nausea. It may also help those who suffer from epilepsy, glaucoma, multiple sclerosis. However, the use of marijuana can damage the lungs, weaken the immune system, so according to the academy, the use of medical marijuana should be the last choice. The legality of the use of cannabis or marijuana differs from state to state, we are all aware of that, but we still do not know enough how it is legally regulated. It is illegal in many countries as a result of an agreement on the ban on hashish at the International Opium Convention. Many countries have legally approved the possession of small quantities of cannabis for personal use. It is important to note that there are stricter requirements in some countries, such as China, then Cuba, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, the Philippines and the like, and on the other hand, we find less strict laws, for example. in the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, Uruguay and certain countries within the United States, such as Alaska, Colorado, Oregon and Washington. Let's go into the neighborhood and I'll tell you what the example of neighbouring Austria is, marijuana is decriminal and illegal. In July 2008, the Austrian Parliament approved the cultivation of marijuana for scientific and medical purposes. Cannabis cultivation is controlled by the Austrian Food Health and Safety Agency under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. At the same time, however, possession or sale of marijuana for personal use is punishable with 6 months in prison. In Belgium marijuana is decriminalized and illegal. The Belgian government recently initiated a study of the effectiveness of marijuana for medical purposes but still without legalisation. The interesting thing about Belgium is that there are cannabis social clubs whose members can grow and consume their own marijuana but cannot sell it to others. It's illegal in the Czech Republic, it's allowed up to 15 grams of marijuana. The use of marijuana for medical purposes has been allowed since 1 April 2013 only with medical prescription. In the last 20 years, it seems to us that the Czech Republic has shown a very liberal approach to the cannabis plant and this has shown by the Law on the regulation of marijuana for health purposes. But the possibility of growing marijuana has caused the Czech Republic to be in trouble. In fact, because of the return profit that comes from the sale of marijuana on other foreign markets, its cultivation has actually become an unconstitutional trend. Cannabis cultivation began to deal with laica, and in an inappropriate way not taking into account the conditions and methods of cultivation and the plant resulting in carcinogenic plants full of herbicides. Then came the plan of importing marijuana. Despite the support of all political parties to legalise marijuana for medical purposes, the main opposing political ideas or such consensus was just then the Czech health minister, who determined that claims about the medical efficacy of marijuana are false news that has no scientific basis. Nevertheless, the Czech Republic decided to give the green light to use medical cannabis or marijuana not covered by health insurance. In France marijuana is illegal, must not be owned, sold or farmed. Since June 2013, cannabis-containing medicines are allowed to be sold. Medicinal products containing it can only be obtained with a prescription and in case other types of medicines cannot help improve your health or relieve your pain. It is important to note that all medicines containing cannabis must be authorised by the National Medical Agency. Non-medical consumption of cannabis is punishable for a year in prison or a fine of 3750 euros. In Germany, since 15 January last year, the Federal Institute for Medicinal Products may issue a special authorisation for the possession and consumption of cannabis as part of a doctor-supervised therapy. Breeding and possession may be authorised by scientific institutions or official administrative bodies. Pharmacies may be given special authorisation for the sale of cannabis or cannabis-based medicines but only to patients who have a prescription for it. In February of this year, a representative of the federal government announced, you may also know that it would propose a law whereby insurance companies would cover the cost of eating cannabis for medical purposes. So far, a very small number of Germans, about 3 hundred of them have been granted a license to buy marijuana in pharmacies and are almost exclusively ill with terminal cancer, with them having to pay between 15 and 18 euros for a gram of marijuana. The new law would significantly increase the number of patients with cannabis consumption rights, according to our friends. They stress, however, that the possession and use of marijuana without medical permission continues to be a violation of the law in Germany and that no changes are planned. In Great Britain, legal regulations do not recognise cannabis to any therapeutic value. There is one exception, it is a cannabis-based product called Stablex that can be given on a prescription but only in very limited circumstances as an additional therapy for multiple sclerosis patients or patients undergoing chemotherapy. The possession of cannabis in any form in the UK is illegal. The maximum penalty for possession is 5 years and for production and sale of 14 years in prison. Our closer neighbourhood, Slovenia in 2012 was proposed to decriminalise cannabis but there was not enough public support, politics said. In 2013, a new law was passed that prescribed only fines for the possession of small quantities of cannabis, which the government called decriminalisation of medical marijuana. In the Netherlands example, you know, marijuana is legalized, so it can also be used for medical purposes. It is illegal to own, buy, grow and sell in Sweden. Social Stigmatisation and refusal and exclusion from the labour market are the main sanctions for all those who break the law and use marijuana. National police and the official policy of Sweden are implementing a zero tolerance policy against all drug users. But cannabis is legally approved for medical use. Since February 2012, medical canabis can be obtained on prescription only with the approval of the medical agency. It is a medicine in the form of spray that is placed under the tongue, which removes or relieves symptoms primarily of multiple sclerosis. Canabis spray is approved in this form and in the UK. Finally, Spain, as another example, is the sale or purchase of any amount of cannabis, is a criminal offence, possession and consumption in a public place is an offence and is being punished by the punishment and confiscation of marijuana, but the cultivation of marijuana on private property and consumption in private space is legal. There are about 500 private cannabis clubs in Spain. In Spain, it is often referred to as the new Amsterdam i.e. destinations for tourists who want to consume marijuana, but the entire Spanish public is not sensitive to these new epithets. Last year, 49 such clubs were closed in Barcelona because authorities discovered shortcomings in their functioning of the problems in co-existence with neighbours, as they called it. The region of Catalonia plans to soon allow the use of marijuana to treat patients with symptoms such as pain and loss of appetite. Of course, in our society there are a number of challenges, not only on the political stage, there are a number of obstacles in the daily conversation, which and how to legalise or not. From all of this, it can be concluded that the use of medical cannabis to some has positive effects on some of the patients, but also many negative side effects. Each country in its own way regulated the use of medical cannabis. When making a decision it is very important to take care of possible abuse, I will remind you of what happened in the Czech Republic, the wider availability of marijuana, and to prescribe and ensure effective control over the use of cannabis for medical purposes, who, in what way, will be available. Unfortunately, from what the colleague suggested, we don't see this kind of progress or this kind of solution. Proponents of medical use of marijuana or cannabinoid-based medicines claim that they help with many painful conditions, cancers, etc. We believe that the issue of the use of marijuana or medicinal products for medical purposes in Croatia is something that medical experts should primarily give their opinion and that we must have irrefutable scientific evidence for such claims. The HDZ Club won't support a proposal like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107881	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107882	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs Proposer Mirela Holy. It is my duty at the very beginning to point out that the Club representative of the SDP of Croatia cannot support this legislative proposal. The reason is more and I'm going to start from the first ones who actually have nothing to do with the content of the law itself. In fact, this bill is extremely poorly written. An esteemed colleague pointed out it herself, but I must repeat it. We can't write in law that the ministry will pass another law. We have a division of the authorities, and we know which body is responsible for the adoption of laws in the Republic of Croatia. It is exclusively the Croatian Parliament. However, it is not the only problem with this law. This law, which only has 3 articles, shall be referenced exclusively to Article 13. The law on the prevention of drug abuse. If such a law were passed, it would be further doubtful whether hemp in the Republic of Croatia was allowed because the Law on the control of intoxicating drugs has, for example, Article 2 which also mentions hemp as a plant whose breeding in the Republic of Croatia is prohibited. So if we really wanted to let hemp grow in all its forms, in all its appearances, then we had to change Article 2 of the Law. Not to speak afterwards and what is found in Article 3, Article 50, etc. These are the formal reasons why this law cannot be supported. In theory, they would be correct until the second reading, but now we're going to move on to content reasons. First of all, the SDP representative club, or SDP, has adopted a new approach to intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia since the start of this mandate. We didn't come to that approach alone. The amendments to the criminal legislation that we made in early 2012 were prepared and implemented in cooperation with the Croatian Police and the State's Attorney's Office, which often pointed out in the reports of the state's attorney who were filed right here in this home that the system we have is forcing the state's attorney and police to deal with those criminal acts which are fundamentally leniency. I'll give you an example. By 2012, the cultivation of one marijuana stem, one hemp stem, carried a minimum prison sentence of two years. Two years by 2012 there was a minimum suspended prison sentence for any cultivation, for any production of any intoxicating asset in the Republic of Croatia which is not allowed. Why, because someone was playing legislator, because I have to say he was playing legislator and he didn't think about the consequences of his work. We also punished him who had grown one stem of marijuana, as well as one who sold tens and tens of pounds of any other drug. The next step we must certainly take is what counterpart Holly was talking about, what her colleague Glavak was talking about, and that's the division between what's intoxicating drugs and what's not intoxicating drugs. And there's a colleague, Holly, absolutely right. Plants containing 0.2% THC cannot be treated as drugs. Why? Because they simply can't produce intoxicating material, and there's a colleague Holly right, and that part of the proposal would be able to accept. However, it is only part of the proposal. Your proposal is all or nothing. The government has declared in its statement that it accepts that part. The Ministry of Agriculture has spoken of this several times, and among us, given the principle of EU law enforcement that certain substances are allowed, I think given the existence of certain regulations and regulations and the content of the EU's operating contract to grow industrial hemp for other purposes than just feeding in the Republic of Croatia. In that part, we must certainly level with EU law and we must allow for the cultivation of industrial hemp for all needs. And here I certainly hope that the Government will fulfill what it has stated in its opinion and as soon as possible refer that law to the procedure. Now we're talking about what's the second part of the proposal, which is the use of other forms of hemp. As we have said, we have a hemp, or Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, which are primarily known not only for THC which is more present at Cannabis sivat but also in other cannabinoids that are more present with Cannabis indica and whether we should use them for medical purposes. My colleague Glavak said that a study showed that the use of hemp products has beneficial purposes, but it can also be harmful. And I'm going to ask you, here's my colleague Grubisic as a doctor, are the drugs used for chemotherapy, for cancer treatment, if they're used for other things harmful to the body? They are, and so are most of the other drugs we're using. And that is why, if we are talking about legalising the medical use of Cannabis, we must leave it to a professional doctor to say that it is for this patient, for this disease and in this particular case allowed. Of course, if we are going in that direction, it must be prescription drugs and it cannot be missed that each one of us chooses which treatment will be treated. In the end line of the last few years and in many other medicines used for similar things, let's say, Cannabis oil, first and foremost, we talk about pain relief. It was precisely because of a side effect that we started to make as many prescriptions as possible, so that patients would not treat themselves with them. In short. The SDP advocates' club is exactly what the government has said in its opinion that we must amend the provisions of the Law on the control of drug abuse in a way that liberalises certain use. However, we must take this step by step to set an example for some other countries. For example, Slovenia, the neighbor who did this to us from this year or, for example, Israel who has already said it has very good words would also say excellent regulations concerning it. Personally, I believe that cannabis will probably come into general legalisation. That opinion is based on the fact that many countries have set out in this direction, but I will also remind you of a historical fact. Do you know when it's forbidden marijuana, that's the name of that marijuana law... of 1937 [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And when the prohibition ended and many police officers in the United States were out of work, something else had to be haunted. Let me finish. As I have already said, we cannot support this law, we cannot support it for formal reasons, but we cannot also support it for substantive reasons because we believe that it is going too far at this point, and that we still need to deal with this topic step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107883	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107884	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As rare as I could almost agree with Mr. Grbin, a representative of the SDP club in the assessment of his neighbor's legal proposal, colleague Holly. The Committee on Health at which I was present was also discussing this law and we see the conclusions, although I think they might, and in the speech of my colleagues, the coat of arms appears to be wider than the conclusion of the Health Committee itself which held the debate about it. But what I wanted to say and notice, and I didn't want to do with a replica, because the time has moved away is that when we talk about using cannabis for medical purposes in malignant patients, let's just this time malignant patients, and they are in the first place in the list of all diseases where cannabis can be used as a means to relieve pain and everything else. So multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, etc., pain relief due to seizures in epilepsy. So there are other means not only of marijuana that I, as a doctor, prescribed and helped. They both exist today. Here I'll list you a few that I remember as a general practice doctor 35 years ago. So there are valoron drops, there's dolantine, there's also end up in the final stage of morphine disease that's given. And I had patients who were using morphine and I was increasing their dose nonstop because, therefore, they were using morphine every six hours, and in the final, terminal stage of the disease they used it every half hour because it seemed to help them. I couldn't have a soul not to give it to them, not to prescribe a therapy for which they, like straws, grabbed a straw of salvation. Although it's known to be just symptomatic therapy. And this time when it comes to marijuana, it's just symptomatic therapy, it has no effect on the underlying disease that is prescribed. So pain relief, the effect that you're getting more beautiful than actually reducing the tension of thinking about this disease, etc. That's the effect of marijuana. No one's talking here, someone mentioned that, and we all know that every drug has its side effects, every medicine starting with those pressure medications, so I don't even know the synopen they use for allergies. Well, then you have drowsiness when you take if you have allergies and skin rash, you take Sinopen and you're sleepy. So every drug has side effects. The adverse reactions of marijuana have not yet been investigated, some of which are known. And colleague Holly made an excellent presentation, so very convincing and thank you for the effort she made to show us, so an excellent, professional and convincing presentation. In addition, she said herself or you said let me say that since you're here, that marijuana is a very potent plant, the omnipotent would be said in the medical jargon, although I'm not saying now to describe or explain its medical purpose rather than exactly what you said starting with the fiber, from the oil, from the industry, from the fire industry, from the textile industry, so is there a need for us in Croatia to completely ban, so here I agree with my colleague coat of arms, we have so many ways to use the hemp, it's such a potent plant, and so it's forgotten and actually eradicated from the Republic. It's said that someone here was talking about the Court municipality, about growing hemp. Well, given the quality of soil and climate conditions, maybe it's one of the better places to grow hemp, I'm not talking about Indian, but industrial hemp, first of all, with THC, that 0.2%, right? So, although this is not the only location where hemp would be, Slavonia is the whole I am convinced of this soil more clay and clay that are more suitable for hemp than that black in eastern Croatia in Srijem, in Bobota and there Vera and those other eastern parts, Germans, Djeletovci etc. Therefore, I am in favour of the fact that within the legal framework, so that the legal regulation is changed so much that it can be grown in Croatia precisely for the needs of those who listed everything other than the one to say a liberal little and excessively liberal attitude of my colleague Holly, at least it seems to me like a doctor, 'where we would be afraid we know our customs, our habits that the law always strive to play out and that there are possibilities for criminalising the cultivation of Indian hemp. And here are the examples, my colleague Glavak listed and it seems to me that France, as well as some other countries that have quite certain laboratories and possibilities of experiments, do not seem to me that our health care will therefore reduce the value but certainly that France is one in health care, in the laboratory processing of all the data relating to the composition of plants and activities, etc. One of the first countries in the world. And I think the French model is good. Now this legal proposal, here's a colleague of Grbin's, found both formal reasons and colleague Holly noticed herself that she was confused about, it's a clean lapus, in connection with this part that the ministry would prescribe the law. No, he'll be adopted by the Parliament if there's a new law. The second question raised here whether counterpart Martincevic proposed a Law establishing the Investment Fund, and that the government then made another law almost with the same name. Will the Government of the Republic of Croatia, using your materials from colleague Holly, make a similar law and put it in the process? I will remain the same attitude as I am now and I am, therefore, partial, partly for your arguments and for growing hemp for industrial purposes and for food and for all other purposes and for this fuel both for the construction industry and for the firefighters. All the things we used to have on the beds, I still think I even have a few more made out of hemp, before you ask God how many years, so Grandma left somewhere in the box so I have one of those couch dressings and I don't know what it's for. Young generations do not know such things, nor do they know hemp at all, except those involved in the criminal use of marijuana, or cannabis farming. The second thing in the Republic of Croatia, I've already asked here for a break in the Parliament, and in connection with the cannabis used in these smart shops to sell some weed that is sprayed by a cannabinoid that has the same effect as cannabis and sold almost legally. It is legal because the composition of the cannabinoid is not included in the list of intoxicating drugs, so the police and the repressive apparatus cannot recognize or recognize it in the register of these other substances and are then sold legally or as some call it legal. We had one death case in Zagreb from that air freshener spray and it should also be taken into account but it is not the subject of this debate. Mostly as I say to my colleague, so maybe as rarely as we are when we are very, very similar views. Neither the HDSSB club, as I said, will be on the Health Committee for a bill like this. Thank you very much. Although I'm not as conservative as my colleague Holly might think.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107885	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107886	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's to, I'm going to try briefly, the opinion of the Laburist and underline, of course, my own personal opinion without it, we can't discuss this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse proposed by my colleague Holly. So, in the opening address of colleague Holly, she said that there are a lot of unknown facts that can be produced from industrial hemp and that much of the citizens may know little about it. I might correct it if a large part of the young people of the Republic of Croatia knew little about it, and that a large part of the older citizens of the Republic of Croatia knew very well what hemp was, what all of the hemp was doing and that, ultimately, thanks to that hemp and survived and had a family and worked. So we currently had a rule that spoke about how we can use hemp and we can't say that hemp or industrial hemp to be concrete in the Republic of Croatia is banned, although year by year, and this is visible in this bill in terms of hectares on which hemp has been planted since 2012. I don't agree in that part with my colleague Holly when she says industrial hemp production requires a license. Everything we want to do, everything we want to produce, we need to get our licenses out and so on for industrial hemp. I agree that this part of the still limiting notification of the Ministry of the Interior and so on, but in the Regulation, the only mistake that is, and that industrial hemp, we would increase the production of industrial hemp in order to achieve all the benefits that have been very nicely shown in the presentation, is sufficient to amend the Regulation and ask the Minister of Agriculture to amend the Regulation and in Article 2 where it stands: That hemp is allowed in the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of food and feed production." If we were to add in that rule that industrial hemp is allowed to produce up to 0.2% of the dry TCC, then we could produce all that. And I've really tried to find it in this law, but there's nothing in the law about it except this rule that says that we can only use industrial hemp for food and animal food. So, by upgradeing that article, we could produce with industrial hemp everything we have heard about in the opening of your address and what really is because I see no reason not to use this hemp as a whole and not as we now have the situation that these entrepreneurs who planted these hemp hemp hectares and who are indeed products because of such a regulation cannot make maximum use of that hemp at the end but must bury a certain part of it again in the country or destroyed it and cannot sell it on the market and they could very well round up their own investment by exporting itself because the demand for such hemp is very large. And that's where we fully agree with this bill. As for the second bill of law, so the Indian hemp exclusively for medical purposes. Unfortunately, I know the situation in which the sick come to hemp, I know how much the price of this hemp is, and here from some personal friendship and talking I know how sick homes cook these hemp leaves that they bought to get to that preparation to ease the pain they have all the time knowing they're driving on that other edge and that at any moment it's possible to end up in jail just because they wanted to ease themselves up a little bit. Today, we can type in a google search engine and get to the potential hemp salesman I need, and it can post us with no problem at all, or it can bring it to our doorstep and deliver it neatly. What surprised me in this personal story is that these dealers eventually become, they experience themselves in a strange way of benevolentness because I tell them that they are better off selling marijuana to the people who are sick and who are then making it easier for their marijuana. I agree the same with that here, so let's take an example of Slovenia that started doing this at 1.1 this year so that this use of marijuana and Indian hemp for medical purposes is allowed, but as the unique convention tells us, we can't produce Indian hemp without having an office or agency that will strictly control it, so this '61 convention. If we already have the Food Control Office or the Agency, we may be able to use it not to open a new one, to be under strictly controlled conditions, to have a controlled number of seedlings and seeds, to have that Indian hemp agency then sell to certain processors and to anyone who needs marijuana for medical purposes for that marijuana to come exclusively into the pharmacy and to have a prescription in hand for one simple reason why all doctors warn that the dose of canabionide should be adjusted to the patient. If we let go of personal production for personal purposes, believe me, I'm telling you, unfortunately, from my own experience when a man is at a thermal stage and when he really can't drink any more, he'd take as much of what he thinks will be easier and better, but unfortunately, at that point, he's doing himself more harm than he's doing himself. And that's why I think it should be the use of marijuana for medical purposes only that way. And here's how much we've heard on the Health Committee and the Ministry of Health has made a committee that discusses it and makes a proposal, so I sincerely hope that because of all those who need it, that we will finally adopt such a law and that they will have the opportunity to go to the pharmacy and take what is under controlled conditions, that it will not be with anything sprayed and that it will be precisely known that it is a cure, and that it is not something that the black market sells under questionable circumstances terribly high prices and ultimately in a way that we are actually developing crime. What we disagree with is Article 1 paragraph 3. So the end, where it is said that hemp can be used for personal use. Unfortunately, here's what I'm gonna say right now from personal experience, I've got two adults, I've talked to each other and the other and they've told me we don't mind legalizing marijuana, but you know we've been telling you since day one that it's just up to us whether we're gonna get high or not. Indeed, the decision on what anyone will do remains on everyone and whoever wants to get to marijuana will come to marijuana if they collect it in their own garden or buy it from someone else, but here is the part that we disagree with. These two first parts certainly are, and this is the first reading, and we'll see if by the second reading it's really going to be taken or left or there's going to be any changes, and then we'll be at the second reading and we'll decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107887	She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107888	I thank the esteemed vice president. I must say, in 90% of the case, or the proposal of the esteemed Proposer Holly, I agree. Of course, that's my personal name, and that's why I'm in an individual debate. I am personally advocating the legalisation of hemp production, of course for industrial and medical purposes, and by the basis of scientific indicators that I believe should not be questionable because the profession is increasingly provoking legalisation every day, and we have no reason to doubt such scientific research. But the profession is, as far as we can see, divided, there's actually one part of the profession that advocates legalization, one is strictly against and one is part of the profession that keeps silent, so of course I'm surprised how it's all possible. What is the goal of both silence and parts of the profession or, say, opposition to the production of hemp for medical purposes, and what is next then? What's left for us as laymen to ask ourselves who's right and who to trust? I personally hold, and based on my personal interest, so I can also say that the therapeutic potential of hemp according to my knowledge is naturally and industrially unlimited, as well as knowledge from the environment of people who used it for their medical needs, or those who are severely ill, people who are forced to illegally obtain from Slovenia most often other European countries where it is legalised or not what they bring to the issue of quality and embarrassingly high prices. So people who were forced to sell even their part of the property that I personally know of to obtain a drug, or hemp medicine that is being further exposed then and the dangers that each of us in the debate said to end up in court and thus in prison. 'Cause let's not forget that at those moments when someone is sick enough for us, we're both seriously sick about what Nancy said and we resort to straws and we're willing to sell everything to save our lives and our loved ones' lives. Is that not the reason that the profession, or scientists and teams, should be put to work by them on the left or on the right? Because if a consensus is to be reached anywhere, it's to ensure the health of the nation. So if this is the production of hemp for medical purposes, then it is necessary to find mechanisms to protect that production from abuse. The biggest profit or profit, however you want, would certainly have patients. And do we need newspapers that we often read about how citizens want to enlighten both the government and the ministry and us in the Parliament that hemp is actually a cure and not drugs because it has shown a number of research. As a member of the Health Committee, I did not vote or support MP Holly's proposal for one single reason, and this is because I believe that it should still be done gradually, that mechanisms for strict production control should be well developed, both industrial, medical, and Indian hemp, which should include very important 3 factors, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, Health and Home Affairs and, together with scientists involved in research in this area, to elaborate thoroughly. I am convinced that production of Indian and industrial hemps, i.e. medical cannabis, will one day see the light of day through the legislative frameworks. And to finish, I think it's Gordan Masnjak, who is also the initiator of the founding and one project "Connovel 2013" said: "The rights of each of us to a decent and healthy life are common rights. They are not the subject of political games because the sickness and necessity of treatment have no colour and side but only our desire to help everyone in need. We never know when we can and personally find ourselves in such a situation as people are in need today. Their time is now and now.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107889	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, final. Mirela Holly, final exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107890	Thank you, Vice President. Here are all the colleagues and colleagues who have been involved today in the debate on this Amendment Law and amendments to the Law on the control of drug abuse I would like to thank you for, I would say, quite an educational debate. Of course, as the legislator of this law, I didn't even count on the law to pass in Parliament. Since I am very aware of how much prejudice there is in society on this subject. I'm sorry, of course, that's the situation. However, I am deeply convinced that our task is to work on education as a public and I think it is a very large role for Parliament and in that part to work on informing our citizens exactly what this is about, what are the advantages and what are the shortcomings of any proposal. I am deeply convinced that the future brings full legalization and liberalisation of hemp. I think it would be good for Croatia to be a leader on that path because those countries that are moving in that direction will certainly benefit far more from not only economic benefits but also social benefits but here, obviously we won't be the first in that section and I think it's a very big loss for us. Here, I'm sorry we discussed this law at such a late hour. I think it would be a good idea for this debate to have had the opportunity to hear more colleagues and colleagues and, of course, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are doing this job. Here it is, I personally don't believe there will be another reading, given that the law certainly won't get support in this first reading. But here, I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will fulfill its promise and, as soon as possible, send its law in the procedure that will not satisfy me because it will probably only go to legalisation of medical marijuana in a Slovenian way, i.e. through the legalisation of pharmaceuticals, which I do not think is good and that we will again give our citizens the opportunity to have the opportunity to choose the decent life they deserve. And just another brief reminder, namely the SDP in his past term when he was in opposition to legalisation. I can agree that in legalization and that is, in the legalisation process, it will go gradually but I hope that it will go a little faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107891	Thank you very much, colleagues. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And I now announce that tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., we will begin with the Final Proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-04-22-0.u107892	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 755. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse proposed by MP Mirela Holy for the reasons laid down in the reports of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the majority of the vote is 75 votes in favour, 12 abstentions and 11 votes against the proposed conclusion. Implementing effects report Nothing. [[Intruder: We are now continuing the debate.]] Oh, well, thank you very much. We didn't process it. So today's vote is over.
