ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-28-0.u25	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we now join the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Namely, Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines that the proposal to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission has the right to submit one-third of the elected representatives. Article 117 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament found that the commission had seven members other than the president and vice president. In accordance with the inter-party agreement reached, the following proposal was tabled for the chairman of the commission by Mrs Margareta Madjeric, the vice-president was proposed by Mrs Gordana Sobol, and representatives Drazen Bosnjak, Dario Hrebac, Juro Martinović, Miroslav Šimić, Sasa Djujic, Alen Prelac and Nada Turina-Đuric. Would anyone like to take part in the debate regarding this proposal? I don't see anyone answering. Thank you very much. If not, then I am voting on a proposal to elect a president, vice president and members of the Mandate Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. Here is a total of 149 MPs 147 voted in favour of this proposal and two were abstentions, no one was against it, so I would say that most votes accepted the proposal. I declare that in the Mandating Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, they have been elected president of the Committee Margaret Mađerić, Vice President of Gordana Sobol, MPs Drazen Bošnjaković, Dario Hreba, Juro Martinović, Miroslav Šimić, Saša Djujic, Alen Prelec, Nada Turina Đurić. I congratulate the presidents and vice-presidents and members of the Immunity Commission on the election and I urge them to hold a session and prepare the report in accordance with Article 6. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The committee's session will be held in Josip Jelačić's hall. By the time the report is made, I shall set a 30-minute recess for the Mandate Immunity Commission. I thank all the guests for their presence at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament and invite them to join us during this period for the occasion of the constitution of the Parliament. Thank you all very much. It's 12.50 o'clock. [[Applause]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-28-0.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President, congratulations on the election, distinguished and respected MPs and MPs. At its first meeting, the Mandate-Immunity Commission held on 28 December 2015 on the basis of Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall submit this report. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the published final official results of the elections for MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia since 23 November 2015. After the Croatian Parliament adopted its Decision on its discharge, which entered into force on 28 September 2015, the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, adopted the Decision on the opening of elections for representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which took place on 7th, 8th and 15th November 2015. The state election commission of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the presidents of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the report on the elections held for MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which, during the deadlines for appeal, became and finally. The commission found that 151 MPs and deputies were elected to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Selection of Representatives and Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia. And that, 140 MPs and MPs were elected from the list to 10 constituency units, the provisions of Article 38. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 3 MPs were elected from a list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Article 44. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 8 MPs and representatives of national minorities were elected from a list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Articles 16 and 17. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that the representatives of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament after the Decision on the Disband of the Assembly were in accordance with the provision of Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament continued to hold the parliamentary mandate, and their term of office ended on the day of the constitution of the new assembly. On the same day, it shall cease to be the representatives of the previous assembly of members of the Assembly of the bodies and organisations outside the Assembly appointed by the Assembly of MPs if the appointment is conditional upon the conduct of the duties of representatives and that day, membership in the working bodies of the Assembly shall cease to be appointed members. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 6 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament reached the following conclusion: On the day of the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament, the term of office of representatives of the previous assembly of the Assembly ended and the following MPs were elected in the 8th meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I'll read them in alphabetical order. Ljubica Ambrusec, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Ivan Anušić, Vedran Babić, Branko Bačić, Milan Bandić, Drazen Barišić, Milorad Batinić, Arsen Bauk, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Josip Bilek, Drazen Bošnjak, Miljan Brkić, Marija Budimir, Miro Bulj, Oleg Butković, Stevo Culej, Radimir Cačić, Tomislav Čuljak, Pero Čorić, Božo Čoić, Tulio Demetlika, Miodrag Demo, Željko Dilber, Slaven Dobić, Goran Dodik, Igor Dragovan, Josip Željko Filić, Željić, Željko Žlažović, Sabina Glava, Branjko Glava, Branko Grinić, Branko Grić, Marija Grić, Mario Dobić, Mario Dobič, Mario Dragažak, Marijak, Mario Dragažović, Marijažović, Igor Žražović, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Žbić, Miržović, Žmić, Žmić, Žlažović, Žalkožović, Ž. In accordance with Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament due to the incompatibility of the parliamentary office with the simultaneous behaviour of the duties listed in the cited article The Commission found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of representatives were met: Vladimir Šišljagić, Vesna Pusić, Anka Mrak-Taritaš, Predrag Štromar, Matija Posavec, Ivan Vrdoljak, Daniel Marusić, Zlatko Ževrnja, Goran Pauk, Ivo Žinić, Tomislav Tolušić, Bozo Galić, Darko Sobota, Zoran Milanović, Orsat Miljenic, Siniša Varga, Josko Klisović, Gordan Maras, Siniša Hajdaš-Dončić, Tihomir Jakovina, Predrag Matić, Boris Lalovac, Mirranka Opačić, Mihael Zmajlović, Tomajlić, Tomajlić, Tomišten, Tomišten, Tomist, Tomist, Tomišten, Banč, Banč, Banč, Barjić, Mirko and Mannić, Barkić. In accordance with Article 42 of the elections of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, elected representatives who put the mandate in place of rest are certain deputies: Josip Salapić instead of Vladimir Šišljagić, Igor Kolman instead of Vesna Pusić, Melita Samoborec instead of Anka Mrak-Taritaš, Bozica Makar instead of Predrag Štromar, Šemjanović instead of Matija Posavac, Marijana Živko instead of Ivan Vrdoljak, Ljubica Maksimmčuk instead of Daniel Marušić, Blaženko Boban instead of Zlatko Ževrnja, Sandralic instead of Goran Pauk, Antun Vidaković instead of Ivo Žinić, Igor Fačekaš instead of Tomislav Tolšić, Žijanažina Počižina Nežinja Milić, Damir Falić instead of Mrko Sobota Sobot, Melita Mulic, Melita Mulic instead of Zorana Milić instead of Zorana Milić, Alenović, Alenović instead of Oren Prević, Alen Preljek, Alen Predić, Alen Presa Poš, Zažina, Zažjažina, Vržinjažina Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, V. In accordance with the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Articles 9 and 11. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament proposes a decision. On 28 December 2015, the MPs start to act on the terms of office of MPs, and on that day, they begin to act as deputies of MPs: Josip Salapić, Igor Coleman, Melita Samoborec, Bozica Makar, Štefanija Damjanović, Marijan Živko, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Blaženko Boban, Sandra Jakelic, Antun Vidaković, Igor Fazekaš, Davor Miličević, Damir Felek, Melita Mulić, Alen Prelec, Snježana Buzinec, Karolina Leaković, Vesna Jakas, Dunja Špoljar, Damir Rimac, Biljana Gač, Kristina Ikić Banič, Svetana Lazić, Saša Đuić, Kristijana Rajšelj, Nena Rajšle, Nena Livun, Sandra Krpan, Franco Vido Vidović, Franko Vido Vidić, Davor Penić, Davor Penić, Nikić, Nikić, Nikša Peron, Nikša Peronja, Tonč, Tonč, Tončić and Sanković. I suggest that MPs and MPs accept this report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-12-28-0.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate on this report. I don't see anyone answering. I'm closing the debate. I am therefore voting on the following conclusion: "A report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out for the Croatian Parliament and the names of elected representatives, the names of agents acting incompatible with the parliamentary duty, and their mandate rests and the deputies who are starting to act as representative instead." Please vote. The vote is over. Here's a total of 151 150 is for and 1 abstention. The majority of votes therefore accepted this conclusion. Now we'd move on to the last point, which is to make an oath of a representative, not the least point of importance, but the fact. Following a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. I invite you to join the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to take the oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, call the representatives. A representative when called rises and utters words I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Now we're going to move on to calling the MPs in alphabetical order. Ms Ljubica Ambrusec-I swear to you, Mrs Antičević-Marinović Ingrid-I swear, Ivan Anusic-pris I swear, Vedran Babić-I swear, Branko Bačić-I swear, Drazen Barišić-priprisac, Milorad Batinić-I swear, Davor Bernardić-I swear, Goran Beus Richembergh-I swear, Josip Bilaver-I swear, Vladimir Bilek-priprisem, Tonči Bilić-prisam, Blaženko Boban-I swear, Drazen Božnjaković-I swear, Miljan Brkić-I swear, Marija Budimir-I swear, Miro Bulj-prisem, Mirježam-Prižam, Oleg Butković-I swear, Snjenac-I swear, Stevo Culej-Pjam, Radimir Čačić-Pjažežam, Marijam-Pjam-Prisam, Marijam-Prisem, Marijam-Pržam-Pržm-Pržm-Pržm-Pržm-Pržm-Prism-Pržm-Pržm-Pržam-PIžam-Pržm-Pržm-PIm-Pržm-Pržm-P-Ph-P-P-P-Ph-P-P-Ph-Ph-Ph-Ph-P-Ph-Ph. Here's a thank you, everybody. Congratulations to all MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, and I wish them success in carrying out this honorable and responsible agent's duties. I once again congratulate you all on Christmas, New Year's, pleasant holidays, to rest until the first session of the next Parliament that will most likely be as the Constitution determines after 15 January. [[Applause]] And that concludes the first session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Session closed at 13.44 p.m.
