ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112513	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We'll get back to work. We will discuss - A report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2014 The Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities submitted the report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the report at the session. Does the motionary want to further explain the report? Yeah. Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities Mrs. Anka Slošnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112514	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In accordance with the work cycle prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, this report shows the work of the Ombudsman to protect and monitor and promote the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in Croatia. Each area described also contains a demonstration of complaints and problems that people with disabilities and general citizens point to, and thus is 22% higher compared to 2013. As regards the activities related to amendments to legislation, the harmonisation of the law with the provisions of the Convention has increased 33.8% compared to 2013. We have addressed 99 proposals and opinions in 59 regulations, of which 38% were partially or fully respected. The largest number was related to the area of employment. In addition, we organized other activities, professional meetings, international activities and media participation, expert meetings, and other activities aimed at increasing the visibility of people with disabilities in society. We have made two significant special reports, one of which has recently been accepted in the Croatian Parliament, concerning the rights of persons with autism and disorders from autistic spectrum, and a parallel report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities referred to the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We also participated in the production and other reports such as the universal periodic report on human rights in general. As with all previous years, we work intensively with people with disabilities through their civil society organisations, alliances and associations by holding meetings, communicating individually, and visits, associations for insight into their position and activities, and by supporting their initiatives and working together on their projects. The number of individual complaints by citizens in 2014 was the most relevant in the areas of social care, labour and employment, accessibility and mobility, education and pension insurance. After the proceedings were carried out, we found that the most frequently involved were infringements of the rights guaranteed by law, and consequently infringements of the rights defined by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Employment and labour remain among the first three areas in which people with disabilities often complained about the employment process, the evidence of disability, and lodged complaints about discrimination. Of the largest number of complaints received, they were the most relevant to the field of work and working conditions, and access to goods and services. They also complained in general about the exercise of the right under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Significant amendments to legislation have occurred in this law primarily related to the extension of the obligations of quota employment as one of the ways for employers to get the opportunity to get to know the real abilities of persons with disabilities. However, the quota employment obligation has created other problems, and this is a question of the actual readiness of persons with disabilities for the needs of the economy and the market, and has now come up with outdated educational programmes, the failure of the formal education system to respond to the needs of effective skills for deficits, the lack of use of supporting technologies. This discretion is evident in addressing employers to employment services with the necessary employment of persons with disabilities and inability to meet these needs because the unemployed persons with disabilities lack exactly those with the qualifications sought. Therefore, there are serious challenges before education not only in the field of inclusive education but also in the direction of changing the nomenclature of interest adapted to the ability of persons with disabilities and labour market needs, which must also define specific forms of adjustment with obligations and also the availability of the use of supporting technologies. This gap is a particularly visible and insurmountable obstacle for people with disabilities, especially women with disabilities whose position we consider particularly difficult personally in rural areas. When they are included in education, they are usually offered outdated occupations that are known in advance not to be sought on the labour market. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that out of the total number of employees in 2014 only 678 women and 36% women are disabled. As in recent years, the largest number of persons employed has completed high school, and most of them belong to a group whose most common professions are related to auxiliary occupations, which has actually been equal to the trend of employment for many years. In particular, I would like to highlight the two proposals that we have made in the field of employment, which concerns the amendments to the Content Regulation, the way in which the eyewitnesses are kept, because the original text has caused disdain by persons whose disability has previously been considered unquestionable and demonstrates the pension solution of the established percentage of physical impairment, which excluded persons with loss, i.e. functional disturbance of upper or lower extremities, and those whose diseases or injuries have a significant impact on the execution of life and work activities. We have proposed emergency changes that have actually been accepted. We also believe that one of the most significant amendments relating to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation at the end of 2014 is the addition to Article 9 which is subject to the procedure and deadlines laid down in the attached paragraphs of the application for non-compliance with the employment advantage where competent inspections are extended powers so that they can repeal the decision on admission into service or an executive solution which determines the violation of the right of advantage in employment which constitutes the basis for the cancellation of the labour contract whose right is violated. In the case of established infringement, the right of advantage shall be subject to the obligation of the legal person who has committed that infringement to conclude a working contract with the person who has established an infringement of the right of advantage within the prescribed time limit. Since the amendments to the law entered into force on 1 January 2015, the effects of these changes will not be affected until 2015. Furthermore, given that all employers were obliged to provide data on the number of persons employed with disabilities in accordance with the criteria of the Regulation on the content and manner of keeping an eye on the office has an obligation to keep an eyewitness. It is evident that according to the data delivered, 10 203 persons employed by 2533 employers were reported. As regards professional rehabilitation in 2014 the only significant change from previous years is in fact the creation of a legislative framework where it is actually expected under the Regulation on Professional Rehabilitation and Centres for Professional Rehabilitation, which was adopted in April 2014, to establish a centre where significant changes are expected again this year. Given that in previous reports we have on several occasions clarified labour law, it is evident that people with disabilities continue to face a number of challenges at work, from the lack of understanding and dissuasion of employers and other associates, not providing flexible working time, unwarranted reasons for cancellation and other rights in accordance with contractual relations. Despite our proposals during 2013 the amendments to the Labour Act that took place in early 2014 our proposals as an office are not respected. And they were referring to the retention of the former protection of persons with disabilities, but to strengthening their position by introducing different forms of protection, as well as defining reasonable adaptation in accordance with the European Directive. In addition to persons with disabilities in a more unfavourable position in the work process, also from other workers and those who care about their loved ones, children with developmental difficulties, their spouses and other family members, and very often face a lack of understanding and discrimination at work. 7 years after the entry into the Convention, the development of awareness in the social model of disability and the obligation of the state to ensure reasonable adaptation is low among decision-makers, public experts but also among persons with disabilities and organisations representing them. Therefore, given the above-mentioned problem, we organised a professional event held at the end of 2014 just to give the notion of reasonable adaptation as a prerequisite for the real equality of persons with disabilities through examples of the practice and experience of European countries to our decision-makers and others who were present, who have a longer tradition of applying this principle particularly in the field of education, employment and work. Despite the announcements that it will continue intensively at the end of 2013 and during 2014 work on the Law on Inclusive Supplements has not been continued, according to our data. And there was actually no movement. It is important to say that in mid-2014 he entered into force and the Law on a single body of art that prescribed that a single body within the Office of Arts and Professional Orientation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities as its design unit with its central office and district offices that were to begin work on 1.01.2015. It is a regulation that is of paramount importance for persons with disabilities since the single body of art conducts skills for the purposes of different systems or recognition of the right that has until then been part of each individual system in which individual rights have been resolved. According to numerous questions, our office can conclude that people with disabilities expect that the single body of art will finally address the question of the identification of disability and its proof, especially in relation to their ability to work. Whether these expectations will be met will depend on the pace of institutional professional reconstruction of the unique body of art being able to meet the needs and requirements of those whose skills will be one of the conditions for the exercise of rights in different systems, as well as in the system of work and employment. In front of the unique body of art, there are large tasks. As of 1 January 2015, a new Regulation on art methodologies is in force, and its degree of validity ceases to apply to all the regulations which were governed by this area by the end of 2014. The Law on the Single Body of Art must maintain the primary interest of disabled persons, which is that the system of art is flexible, accessible, objective, impartial, focused on needs and with the ultimate aim of achieving appropriate rights, support and protection for persons with disabilities in good time. In the area of pension insurance, the most frequently involved complaints about the outcomes of the proceedings for the exercise of different rights under the pension system. At the end of 2014, we received the largest number of complaints which complained about the length of the procedure, from requesting to calling for skills, i.e. making a solution to work incompetence or percentage of physical damage. One of the positive changes to the new law is the extension of Article 69, which allows children and persons with disabilities to work. Also, what is important to highlight but remains to be seen are actually permanent changes and additions to pension regulations that actually cause their changes to the legal uncertainty of citizens who do not know when they have, and when they lose some right or obligation and how long there is also a problem with misrepresenting or insufficient informing the parties by pensioners. In the report we also highlighted the Law on Extra for Children, which contains discriminatory provisions and which we have been warning of over the past years. Such a system is discriminatory and unsustainable and we have recently delivered our opinion to all the competent authorities and to the parliamentary representatives. Following that whole period of time until the adoption of a special regulation, it puts an unfavourable position on the entire group of people with the same severity of health damage, contrary to the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Although it is not until last year's report, although it is not part of this report we would like to stress that despite the initiatives related to amendments to the Law on Child Supplement by Mr Novak, last week we received a proposal to amend the Law on Extra for Children, which provides for an amendment to the discriminatory provisions. As regards the area of social protection, the development of a wide range of services in the community will support the education and employment of persons with disabilities, but will also enable the exercise of the right to live in the community for thousands of people who are still located in social care homes. We must not forget that different forms of support and services are needed not only in large and larger cities but in the entire territory of the country. We also see a special problem for people with physical impairment, young people who do not currently have adequate accommodation, so they are located in homes for older and powerless persons. The Republic of Croatia has begun the process of deinstitutionalising users and transforming some homes into social care. We record valuable shifts in lifestyle and support that long-term people with intellectual and mental difficulties are now getting. However, whether we want the waiting lists, however, what we want the waiting lists for home accommodation to be replaced by the offer of quality, different and easily accessible services to support life in the community. In all the environments we have visited we see a lack of quality social services and systematic strategies to improve the position of disabled people. Despite the regulation adopted in the field of social care which should contribute to uniform criteria and quality of services, the fact that the economic situation in the country is an obstacle to the establishment of a community service centre in the development of social service providers but also to the expansion of the network. The adoption of a new Family Law and the abolition of full depravation of business skills have made concrete small shifts and laid the foundations on which real equality should yet be built before the law of persons with disabilities. The very fact that his re-engagement is uncertain for persons deprived of their business ability is not encouraging. However, this current legislative stalemate should not be an obstacle to the minimum restrictions on human rights by all participants in the deprivement of business capacity and custody procedures. Education and employment of independent life in particular health and thus the quality of life of people with disabilities is not possible without an accessible environment that should be understood as a common indivisible space equal to available to all and persons with disabilities and with disabilities. And for years we have indicated that in this area shifts are almost invisible and there are still no concrete activities, programmes and measures left behind. According to the number of complaints received in the field of education and education, we note that the head of inclusive education is increasingly being implemented in the system of general education and education. Appeals about the inability to engage in kindergarten or regular school are increasingly rare, but complaints refer to the quality of the guaranteed support for educational inclusion of children with disabilities. The largest number of complaints in 2014 referred to the assistant service, their funding and various funding methods and consequently the problem of fluctuation and lack of education. Parents also complain about the lack of use and other forms of support for children with developmental difficulties, primarily thinking about the education of educators and teachers to work with a child. Due to the lack of legal regulation that would systematically define support for the inclusion of students in the regular education system, about 65% of people with disabilities have completed school-based alone or even less which restricts their personal development and maintains their employment. This data also suggests that secondary education in Croatia is the weakest link in the education of people with disabilities. In the area of higher school education, it is the provision of support for pre-conditions for persons with disabilities and it is currently not systematically secured but depends on project insurance by associations. The protest of parents of children with developmental difficulties at the beginning of last year is fully justified from the defence's point of view. The reason for the protest was to reduce the right to services and help, for example. The Regulation on orthopaedics and other aids in 2014 has been amended and updated 11 times. Significant amendments to the Regulation significantly reduce the rights to be viewed in the increased needs arising from disability. Most of them must be complemented by aids, obtaining non-HZZO aids, supplementing special diets, medicines, performing continuous medical examinations, rehabilitations and many other activities related to disability and affecting the financial situation in the family. Also in the field of hospital medical rehabilitation and physical therapy when we speak in the house, we see significant problems that have been complained about by persons, so we have proposed changes and some sublegal acts where we expect it to come into effect by the end of 2015. One significant problem is the conduct of medical care and physical therapy in the house, due to lack of capacity and service providers especially in smaller environments is unequal coverage, e.g. According to pension data, the total number of persons employed by 1267 nurses and 438 physiotherapists covers the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Is that enough? Can this number satisfy the needs of persons with disabilities in Croatia? Whether three physiotherapists or one institution are enough in Gospić for the entire county. There are no private providers at all. But here we are talking about a series of cities where there are only one or two institutions and there are no private providers. About Čakovec, Gospić, Koprivnica, Krapina, Osijek, Požega, Slavonski Brod, etc. There is also a significant problem in the implementation of dental protection against the treatment of people with multiple damages, including those in institutions. As regards early intervention, complaints are from different parts of Croatia. Although early intervention was introduced in the Social Care Act according to the country's ministry data, there are 4,800 children who are in need of the service, while in 2013, it was recorded that 641 only uses an early intervention service, or only 13%. An extremely large number of children do not have access to early intervention treatments, especially the difficult situation of children with autistic spectrum difficulties. With growing dissatisfaction and poverty in 2014 we note the spread of the attitudes of people with disabilities that they are discriminated against, that in different areas of their lives they are in a more unfavourable situation, and everything is evident from the rise of the complaint of discrimination by as much as 89% more compared to 2013. In line with the recommendations we made in 2012 on raising awareness of the application of the Convention, it should be reiterated that continued work is needed to comply with the provisions of the Convention, legislation and practice, state institutions, but with its main message, persons with disabilities have the right to vary and, despite differences, have the right to be equally accepted and to receive support in order to be able to use their abilities at a level equal to others. They are able to make their contribution to society, to their family, and to themselves, and we are the ones who should give them the opportunity. Prejudice on persons as less capable, weaker, and powerless encourages a caritative relationship with them. These people are given social assistance mostly low amounts, are not counted on in the world of work, and they are the cost and burden of the state budget. For the end of the opening part, I would like to say that out of a total of 515,782 persons registered in the Law on the Register of the HZJZ we assume that at least half of those who might be able to work if they were provided with support in education and work. At least so many members of their family who could also give more to society if they provided care, escort, rehabilitation, assistance, assistants to their children, wives and husbands, mothers and fathers. It is therefore up to all of us to bring concrete changes along reasonable deadlines and change a system that is not sufficiently focused on the citizens themselves and their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112515	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. We have two replicas, first respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112516	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor's Attorney General. She might want to be in this replica if it is possible to further explain some of the problems involved in the employment of people with disabilities. In fact, the feeling of discrimination in persons with disabilities mostly stems from the discrepancies between legal regulations or the possibilities given both the law rights and their application and implementation in practice. ... employment, and you yourself pointed out that last year was passed the Employment and Rehabilitation Act of Persons with Disabilities significantly brought some positive changes and so on. quota employment or enlargement has already been seen in this year and some results. However, there are still problems, employers point out that there is still a discrepancies in the working environment, architectural and communication barriers. And what may still be the most interesting assistants in the work, assistants in the follow-up course that children with developmental difficulties follow to schools and stay with them in teaching are somehow public-recognizable, but unfortunately they are also recognizable because of the lack of ever-secured funds for their assistance. What about the assistants at work? What are your recommendations from which funds, and how will these people be educated, trained, and financed?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112517	The line matches Attorney-General Slonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112518	Well, I'd like to say about employment that the entire employment system is the result of the education system. As I pointed out in the opening part of the disabled people continue to be educated for some occupations that no longer exist on the labour market. I think it is exceptional that the nomenclature or list of professions is changed and that programmes are developed in a way that they are compatible with the labour market and with the abilities of disabled people. As regards assistance in the workplace, a major problem is that, despite the fact that there is a regulation on incentives and the provision of support as a sublegal act for persons with different degrees of damage, it is visible by complaints or seeking advice from people with the most severe disability where the system has not recognised the need to support other persons with the most difficult. So, for example, One person who is intellectually healthy, who ended up for example The school of economics, which is in postgraduate at that university today, is the person who needs help in different segments, who in her line of work will only get the person who introduces her into the business. However, if she needs someone to be with her during working hours of eight hours and to help in some segments then it is not as a system recognised and relying on the services of a personal assistant who currently implements as a project of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth which, of course, is not enough because simply 80 hours a month cannot be covered for those needs that are highlighted, which is that the personal assistant is extended by the hand to the person she helps, let alone in order to solve it in the system of work. I think that systems such as social care, the labour system must simply understand that there must be harmonisation and regulation and that it must be done to make sublegal acts change and to ensure the assistance in the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112519	The second replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to congratulate you once again on all your reports, but also on this one you have courageously pointed out to all those problems and to all the laws that have been passed and conventions which unfortunately are not fully respected and implemented. I'm interested in the other part and it's about the assistants in the child care class. We know the problem that was at the beginning last year. I'm afraid this government has forgotten again in reality how many children will be enrolled in elementary school as it has forgotten the first of fall so it hasn't included them in these free meals. By the way, 50 million kuna is enough to get all the kids a free meal at school. But what is today's interest are assistants in the class. Do you have any idea if this government knows how many kindergarten children will be enrolled and how many in the first grade primary school who need a personal assistant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112521	Attorney General Slonjšak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112522	So given the problem that was last year, what our knowledge is, is that at the beginning of the year, or mid-spring, he was in the debate and the rule regarding assistants in the teaching that should actually regulate the work of the assistants themselves in the follow-up. However, as far as funding is concerned, according to our findings, it continues to go through different forms of funding, means also through the project, i.e. funding through international projects and through other tripartite funding, so according to our knowledge, I think the ministry is working on it but we have no concrete data and we know that the enrolments are actually ongoing now and for enrolment in schools and kindergarten enrollment. So we actually expect the ministry to be now and what we think is already quite late to open funding opportunities because simply what we've highlighted for years is assistants themselves, or assistants and individuals themselves, and schools should already know in July who will be an assistant.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112523	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Mladen Novak will speak on behalf of the Independent Left-wing Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112524	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you have noticed, I hope it is, those who have read that this report is really exhausting, extensive. And although there have been a lot of complaints from this pay phone that sometimes reports are too extensive, too comprehensive, when it comes to this report, I agree that it should be like this. As much as I'm commending this. It is primarily because some of these situations without such illustrative examples that show us what these are problems that arise from our unfortunately legislation as you have the opportunity to read and read but you will also hear in the end a good part of the example you have heard from the lawyer who are the problems facing our fellow citizens, the persons to whom this report applies. This report covers all aspects of child's life with developmental difficulties, persons with disabilities and their families from early intervention, through education, mobility and employment of life in the community, participation in political, cultural and sports life. Given previous reports, we see that the shifts are small and insufficient and that the burden of today’s situation in our society has been well broken down on the backs of the most vulnerable groups. In this report, I found a total of 515 thousand 782 people with disabilities and a lawyer suggest that there are at least half those who could work if they were given support in education and work. There are at least so many members of their families who could also give more to society, when they would provide care, escort, rehabilitation, assistance, assistants, etc. to their children, wives and husbands, mothers and fathers. We don't have to wait for the European Union to tell us. We can calculate ourselves that we are not so rich a society that we can easily give up the contribution of people with disabilities, that most of these people are considered inactive by sharing their fines as compensation for their misfortune by generating dissatisfaction. Unfortunately, let us remind ourselves that we sometimes deny them these fine fees, the petty fines as it stands in the defense attorney's report. Now a little bit about content. What got into my eyes, the most complaints received, were in the field of social care 124 cases and 19% where they were being treated, I can't believe that this is good data, 147 times, which mainly refers to the exercise of material rights and housing. We have the government's view of the answer in some way to this question but in answer to that question, essentially, what stands. We have established one commission, so we will establish another commission, and these two committees will work further. And basically no solution is offered, or solution is offered but for some future that is neither defined when it should be, in any way. Then the problem of personal disability and income. And now I quote the report: "The basis of Article 38, paragraph 1. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is a proposal to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the consent of the Social Care Act. Namely, what's the problem? The problem is that personal disability is in some way related to income, but there is again further discrimination, so that proposal which is also a lawyer, my proposal, which the lawyer mentioned in her presentation, is not the only form of discrimination. So these forms of discrimination are still there and you will hear more or read about them if you prefer. But what is indicative of me here, in the final part of this chapter, is the sentence: The Constitutional Court has not yet decided to accept the proposal and initiate the procedure. So it's not a single ministry, it's not a general government, but with us all institutions are constantly working in a way that I won't say consciously, but with some kind of negligence, sloppyness increases the real problems of this group of citizens. Then we have another case where in this report the same lawyer warns, when two lawyers are mutually out of line and practically excludes each other, it is also in the opening statement mentioned, she addressed the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in mid-year. It does not appear here that no answer was received for this, but in the middle of last year, so if some less important thing were correct to answer in some way, to approach the amendment of these sublaws, but at least according to this report it did not occur. Then there is the education of staff that provides health care to disabled people in various institutions. The Advocate-General indicates that people often get complaints about the treatment of healthcare professionals with disabilities when carrying out activities in the field of work. But the lawyer offers a solution, or a recommendation, whether this recommendation will be anything or nothing, but it is up to us to hope that there will be a change, proposes to ensure unfortunately and the financial resources that are always a problem, but to enable the professional capacitation of health institutions, continuous education staff, etc., etc. I mean what, is, the recommendations are here, no one can say there's no proposal for a solution to these problems. Children with developmental difficulties. The Ombudsman continues to accept complaints from parents with developmental difficulties that indicate the lack of early intervention, diagnostics and rehabilitation of children with developmental risk and developmental difficulties in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia. This report shows that the state is in some way relying on the programmes of individual associations, but at the same time it is not sufficiently undertaken to connect existing institutional resources and establish a system of how each child is monitored. I remember we had a debate here when I was told on several sides, but look it's your professional opinion that a child can't be diagnosed for up to a year. Tell me, a child born with Down syndrome, if diagnostics are needed only after a year. Otherwise, I have a very big aversion to this so-called. professional opinions that have been made by order, so if anything fits someone, then that's exactly what it's supposed to be. Then we have access, this is under the accessibility of public institutions, so an example is that if I don't cheat from Koprivnica, even colleagues made sure we get a picture, but unfortunately you won't be able to spot it, people with disabilities have the opportunity to ring the doorbell, staff comes, HZZO employees and enables them to enter the facility. The only problem is that a person with disabilities must first cross 8 steps to get to that bell. It's to have, not to have. You have a chance to get to that, but basically everything was made that you didn't have. Then there are even cases where school failures have been made, so let's just say it's an abandoned request from the school which, in my opinion, is one of the most serious examples of sloppyness, I don't know if a man could call it otherwise. Then we have a case of great concern for parents and students with developmental difficulties, last year caused the published document a unique list of health contraindications of secondary education programmes for enrolment in the 1st grade of high school. Disturbed parents spoke to the office a few days before enrolment in high school, fearing that someone would challenge their enrolment. And in that case, the lawyer makes recommendations, she suggests, proposes solutions. Is this what those who are responsible and who have the opportunity to do this will be able to appreciate that? The right to the status of foster parents and the status of carers. As regards the adoption of the current Social Care Act, the Ombudsman proposed when adopting a specific solution. However, as you know, it remained only at the level of the proposal, there was no reaction. And just to remind you, one of the most famous cases that this applies to you is the guest case of Sunday at 2. Do you need any comment on that? Unfortunately, there are so many examples here that it's simply impossible to fly over and cover them all, but I tried to get the report out of 2011 and the report, normally not the whole report, but just part. Well, it means 2011 when your government was in power. The 2013 report refers to both sides. In one report and the other, there is that problem with the Law of Extras for Children. Unfortunately, not only has this been rejected, but I can even say that in the very process of refusal, the law was violated by the executive authority by the legislative authority. The Rules of Procedure have also been broken, and the Rules of Procedure are the law by which this Assembly functions. However, it was one play that was unfortunately a great shame for all of us here. And yet I'm saying it's not one government, it's a 13-year-old period, and it's a problem that has crossed over and ignored all the authorities in the last 13 years. We have a situation where the prime minister says he calls on the opposition to be so theatrical, he calls on the opposition to propose, and then this is one of the most drastic examples that the ruling is obstructing and everyone agrees. It's in the report, it's in the report. [[/Intruder Stazic: What does this have to do with this report? Come back on the subject.]] I'm asking you nicely to read the report. It's in your report. The children's allowance law, which the Ombudsman stated to repeat for years the same example that we have a recommendation from the Constitutional Court, all of this is in the report. We had ten days ago even less on the lawyer's report we had a proposal to conclude the Croatian Labour Club has proposed the conclusions this Assembly has adopted. I'm not going to suggest conclusions, I'm not going to suggest conclusions for the reason that you remember the RIS case when the conclusion made made made by 31.12 last year. But now he's not sure which 60 on the agenda, so there's no way he'll be adopted. But to suggest anything with this kind of behavior, with this kind of ignoring, and ultimately, this is a disgrace to all of us sitting here in the Parliament, despite some thinking that this has nothing to do with the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112525	We're moving on to replicas. First Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112526	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is only to be clarified that Mladen Novak did not come dressed as a canary because of exhibitionism, but because of this shirt, those who have not seen the difficulties we can deal with, with injustice, do not. There is too much injustice here in the Croatian Parliament itself, especially about the topic we are talking about today. What the report says is evidence that the state's function has been completely missed. The state hears every time and here in the Croatian Parliament that individual representatives advocate to help the capitalists, they need to cut taxes, they need to be granted loans, they need why? So others can, and then people with disabilities get crumbs off the table. It's a completely missed function. They need it, the state exists because of the weak, because of the elderly, because of the disabled, because of the children, because of them. However, the state to whom does it help? It helps people like Todorovic, helps people like Tedesci etc. They need help, they're the ones. But later on, they'll give crumbs to the ones that make the state. The state has lost its function completely, so I'm going to do it again. "We can deal with difficulties, we cannot deal with injustice." However, in the Croatian Parliament when counterpart Novak asked for the correction of the great injustice coalition partners in power said no, we will not help them, we will do so in the procedure and how long it will take. It will take months and those most needy will not get help from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112527	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112528	Thank you very much. I'm asked by the citizens' initiative "Help the Children" with the disability to wear this shirt today and speak in this shirt. And I also welcome all the associations dealing with this problem, and what you said about fellow MPs on this side didn't say no. No, I didn't get the conclusion that the bill was rejected. What's more, I'm here, I've got something that doesn't have according to the Rules of Procedure, such an option doesn't exist. But I was warned, I got a notice. But I was warned that let's say from the highest magog on constitutional law, and our Rules of Procedure I received through the media information, that I left out the proposal for a conclusion on the adoption of the law that no one has ever done, it does not exist in the history of the Croatian Parliament. But good. But you warned of the failure of the Croatian state. So I'll tell you, and that's when I was told that the state is concerned and proactive. Well, now I'm going to list a few cases for you. From Koprivnica, Ms. 2013 in November, she lost a committed application for parent status in 2013 in November, again applied. So far, no response from the ministry. From Zagreb, in February 2014, there is no response from the ministry. There is no response from the ministry in Karlovac 11th month 2013. In 2014, only the art of art was done in Labin, no response from the ministry. Sisak, three cases and no response from the ministry. Varazdin, Virovitica, Sibenik, Krapina are all cases where the ministry is not reacting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112529	A new replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112530	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll agree with what you said in your debate, and I'll continue with the replica. Yeah, it's a known case that a parent has filed a lawsuit for the right to the status of parents and carers who have been granted to him, but because of formal interpretations only, where he sues the Ministry for damages. It's truly tragic because that child is in such a state that he doesn't need to be particularly professional, with a simple eye you can see it. Namely, the lawyer in her report calls for reasonable adjustment. Is that why we should go to special education or not? People working with people with disabilities should certainly be further educated or sensitised for this problem. But what's particularly sad is that exactly the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth shows even the slightest empathy and understanding of the problem. The law adopted on 1 January 2013 is so restrictive. Introducing income and property censorship has reduced the possibility of also making these small fees to disabled persons. Whether it should be particularly professional to know that no one with 800 kn in the Republic of Croatia can live because they can't have any other income. People with disabilities pay for everything. They pay for the transports, pay for who gets them bread, milk. They too must not be treated as an inability to receive any social benefits based on their disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112531	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112532	Thank you very much. Well, thank you, colleagues, after all, for saying that this is kind of a support to this and my debate. What I'd like to point out is, they don't want these citizens, they don't want compassion, it's not compassion, it's not overcomprehension, it's just that they're looking for an opportunity that they need to have for common sense, and they have to have it. But the fact that 70% of the people in this category are in the poverty category is an additional problem. And then it's kind of heartless to put up with that problem, so I mean it. Even worse, the whole story lasts 13 years. And okay, no, now it's your fault, it's their fault. Okay, you know the problem. Unfortunately, this report, if it hadn't been for those online circumstances where the assistant minister went off with that clumsy statement and it got media attention, we wouldn't have been able to point out that problem at all. Unfortunately, you would have told it this year, and that debate would have gone the way it did. The media got interested and it raised the matter to a little higher level. But otherwise understanding of this problem has proved to be how much there is just because we're going to solve the problem but by our kind of dynamics in the last quarter of this year. Last quarter of the election year. So I think it's just that the announcement tells you enough how seriously you approach that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112533	Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, I congratulate you on your contribution to the child's allowance. Indeed, you had the courage to do all this, but those who should have supported you and this is the majority in the Croatian Parliament and the Government did not. But your colleague Novak, your T-shirt, is probably going to read most of the government more easily than he understands. We are witnessing that today the government is very easy to cut into the poorest, socially sensitive, disabled, and most sensitive population. But it's easy to buy expensive cars, expensive tables, expensive business spaces, going on expensive trips. What I wanted to tell you in reality is who should be awarded one Oscar of Heart or Oscar of Nobility, which is the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec. You see, this government has forgotten, simply abolished such an insignificant item of the Academy of Knowledge award. And these are children who won all the awards in international competitions, and such children should be encouraged. They've been winning for years, but this government thought we'd end it because it doesn't have to, it'd probably change expensive tires on expensive cars for a busy prime minister. And now the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, which works in very narrow spaces, has responded to the call and there has been a good action indeed through a social network of facesbooks, a young man, they have responded and for 20 thousand kuna they will make an Oscar of knowledge for children who have received awards in international competitions. And you see it's a center where children with difficulties and all the honors of their professors and they really deserve bigger spaces, better working conditions, all the teachers and they deserve an Oscar of nobility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112535	The replica matches Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112536	Thank you very much. Oh, thank you for your congratulations, but there's no reason to congratulate me. You should congratulate the people who started it and thanks to the online circumstances, so it came to this level. But I need to be honest with you, so the word with this problem is the ministry known from the very beginning, the problem has been going on since 2002, we have the Constitutional Court's opinion if I'm not wrong from 2007. So there was time, there was space, there was opportunity, and now we're going to be honest with the same citizens' initiative talking to MPs before me and SDP representatives, and HDZ MPs, and some other parties here are parliamentary, and unfortunately it's never been launched for which reason and why I don't know. That's what you should ask, maybe those MPs. You congratulate me for doing what you didn't want. Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, you've opened up another subject of Oscar knowledge, but it's a commendable solution. But now the question is, what is it all these years and where is this money ending, and wasn't there a little bit of innovation that could have been done maybe a few years ago in the same way? But no, now that we're here, and we're all the same on this issue that we've all been in power so we're all the same, and then we're acting the way I'm here now, and first I'm the most important to myself, and then everything else. There was no more funds in the account, and before that, did we have to spend so much money? I mean, it's in my insolence, spending it in such a arrogant way, no matter who it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112537	The last replica of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, in your debate, you have touched all the areas that are in the report and each in their own way deserve both attention and debate, but colleagues have already said in their replicas about certain ones, but my attention has attracted the highest number of objections, which is from the exercise of rights in the field of social care. And in that part you said an interesting thought, you said neither what it would be like, nor if it were. And I'd add a question when it is. Because you know what's going on here as a big problem? The problem is the unique body of art. The unique body of art that it solves, we warned that this body of art will have major problems, it's like it's starting to work but it's getting so big, about 10,000 objects have been there, and now another one for three, four thousand has already accumulated yet. And that's now a very big problem to solve, and you don't need to be very smart and say how hasty it is to solve these problems, you said material status to people with disabilities that it should be dealt with in haste. And indeed, this unique body of art has become like a large cloud in this problem not only from the exercise of these rights but also from employment rights. And there it is, it's all an immensely big problem that needs to be reversed in this place, if it's as far as I know the minister has one specific credit for training witches, so it's training, but it's too small a number and the question is when it's going to be solved. So, on all these issues let's say there's a framework being created and there's a framework standing but there's nothing in there. There's a problem, and I think we should worry a lot about getting rid of it because it needs to be dealt with in a hurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112539	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112540	My colleague and I agree with you, but I missed it in the debate, and now I agree with this problem, that part of which you have potentiated. I forgot to say that the Ombudsman had initiated, that is, her office and the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the Social Care Act, or certain articles of that law. So if you remember from the debate and those rules that are mutually inconsistencies, and this example, then we have this Law on Child Compensation, obviously you don't know if it's any more scribbles in this let's say the legislative work where there are certain sublaws that may even be anti-constitutional and some in mutual dissonance or in the very realization of what already exists under the legal option. I think we need to take this whole problem far more seriously than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112541	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112542	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Madam Advocate, the distinguished gentlemen of the representatives in Croatia as we have seen from this report on the work of the Ombudsman has 515 783 persons with disabilities. I'm going to say about these people clearly the road to that is the problem, understandably, that we need to show lasting gratitude to the military people, that everyone can question themselves not. I don't think that if someone is receiving and he's legless, it doesn't matter 25 thousand kunas that he's receiving too many visas you've suffered. I think there must be a debate in this country about civilian disabilities now. I think we should take the debate and protect the meaning of these military and civilian invalids of World War II, the pores, and the civilian disabled from the Homeland War and the members of their families. Everyone on the other side of the law can go down, but the disabled can't go down. It is also true that by rebalancing the budget to all ministries, all public authorities have met a certain amount except the Ministry of Defence. That ministry's budget was increased by about 20 million kuna. Croatia stands out 20.8% of GDP for social protection of citizens, less than the EU average. When it comes to health separation, the isolation of people with disabilities, we are here at the EU summit. The clear result is primarily war or aggression on Croatia, and there are these disability pensions. On the other hand, regardless of the number of people with disabilities, they are not at the same time the most protected. The more individual isolations are very low and the full personal disability amounts to a thousand and 250 kuna. The number of users of this right is not great, there are about 20 thousand, and according to the National Registry of Persons with Disabilities in Croatia, as I said about 520 thousand people with disabilities or 515 thousand 783, respectively. The disabled from year to year has increased and this number has increased rapidly compared to 2001 by 80,000. Almost 40% of all registered persons with disabilities over 65 years of age. According to European qualifications, most of these elderly people would not get the status of people with disabilities because most often they are about the expected state of life. So we can conclude that every eight citizens of the Republic of Croatia are using one of the rights of disability. Why is Croatia the most disabled in Europe? That's probably what I'm talking about. War or disability pensions. And a large number of them thus realize some material right for which no property censorship is needed or if it is very low and slippery. For example, an extra for other people's help and care of 500 kuna receives more than 78 thousand people, and their number has increased 2.5 times over the last 10 years. In practice, this can happen, for example, in a diabetic pensioner. On the other hand, the age category relating to old-age family pensions, which European countries spend most of the money allocated for social protection, Croatia spends 37.7%. That's what I expected. Why? because our pensions are low and the total share is actually low even though we have an extremely large number of users and an extremely unfavourable relationship between pensioners and workers. In parental benefits, we do not also bounce off the average of Europe, we give a total of about 8% of the money. But we spend dramatically little on the unemployed and the poor, while the EU, for example, benefits for the unemployed and active employment measures are about 6%, we give only 2%. In the past few months, there has been controversy, unnecessary controversy, which has been driven between wartime and civilian disabilities, and necessary if it is run between civilian people with disabilities and the government itself... /The speaker has been excluded./... It may have been incorrect even when the fees were raised, say Mr. Glogoška, so Mr. Matić came up with a 24.8 thousand kuna figure, counting a monthly disability of 3 thousand 800 kuna, and a special add-on of 1,000 kuna, then compensation for someone else's care of 3 thousand 800 kuna, pension, etc. But why do I point it out because now I'm going to quote something else, says one civilian disabled, "I am a 100% disabled person in worse condition than some others, I have five decubitus and pains that are difficult to describe. I've been in a wheelchair since I was 18, I don't get care benefits, I get 1,000 kunas of disability. For decubitus I need 30 linings a month, I get 10. And who's asking me? No one." "I am also in a wheelchair, I get a thousand 200 kuna disability, I have the right to a new wheelchair every five years which I have to charge and says quite a bit. On cars, I don't think of an apartment like that." What am I saying? That these examples show an unequal position of civilian disabled people who have the same needs as war - disabled people, but their rights are drastically different. But it's not the war cripple's fault, and you don't have to "snap" on them. They do not need to look unreal on the other hand because the country does not neglect them but certainly about this second category needs to be talked about. In pain are all sufferings the same, but the fact that someone has been sent to the defender of the homeland that it must be particularly apostrophe and especially equally valued. I'm not going to say that someone's been wandering around here or there when some others have defended the country, suffered, and that's why the government's special attention must have been to those who were on behalf of the state on the battlefields and were killed there. And now, in addition to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War and members of their families, we, when we talk about this matter, have the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War or the Law so that they may briefly be referred to by a person from World War II. In '92, there were 20,000 of those people in that category, and then we didn't know about PTSD that nobody today could ever end up shutting it down. To whom this law should be particularly apostropheeded from '92. years of relationships? Who are these wartime military cripples? These are persons wounded or injured by the partisan forces, or the Yugoslav Army, or outside their composition in the exercise of military and other duties under the orders of the military authorities and authorities from 17 April 41 to 15 May '45. there were peacetime military disabled, injured, injured or ill in carrying out a mandatory military service from 15 May '45 onward. There are civilian disabled wars, people wounded, injured, sick in the Homeland War or World War II, i.e. they were killed by residual war material behind these wars and people wounded or injured in the Croatian Homeland Army since 17 April '45. until May 15th, '45. ... For what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How can I not stick to the subject? [[You're not sticking to the subject.]] So I'm talking about disabled people. I'm talking about protecting military and civilian disabled war. I'm talking about a category that counts 515 thousand 783 in this country. What does that really bother you gentlemen? ... So I'm talking about the report, I'm talking about the report and everything that would make one report like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It should simply contain. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Do not interfere with it.]] Because without this, we can't simply track the matter we're discussing. You finally get a chance to replicate. So civil disabled war, even though I'm just saying this, yes, not to skip, when we're talking about military people with disabilities, user structure, condition, Partizans in '99. Eight thousand 158, 2003. Six thousand 140. The natives and Ustasha 1309, that was '99, 1134 2003. Not to speak now about war participants, peace-doping, etc., disabled people, civilian people with disabilities, who on this day are 28 thousand 914. So civil disabled gentlemen should be given much more attention. The same for the disabled of that Second World War. Zuroff has opened the issue recently of pensioning one category of citizens with the right. But what now after 23 years? Here we have the disabled I was talking about from those troops that were defeated. This is humanitarian law, especially when it comes to disabled war, an extremely complex political issue, it must not be ideological, so I say it should be treated as acquired rights and not questioned. I also agree with this message by Mr. Novak just now that we can deal with difficulties, we can't deal with injustice, and so in some ways I'm going to say one more time specifically we need to apostrophe civil disabled wars. As for the report itself, we will clearly support him as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112543	Here's colleague Cain reminded us of 75 years past.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112544	Not Madam Vice President, it's simply about matter that we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112545	This is the annual report. Don't throw it out of the bench. [[It's none of your business.]] counterpart Nada Murganić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112546	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I've come forward for the replica in time until it seemed to me that we were on the same agenda, that is to say, to hear the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2014 so I'll only be able to replicate to that part of you, perhaps to you. In your general discussion, I did not get the impression that you are advocating in general that all persons with disabilities exercise their rights that belong to them and their interests in accordance with their needs and with their disability or that you work or have one selective approach. And why am I saying that? While you mentioned the right to an allowance for care and assistance, I think that because of the persons who have achieved it, I have an obligation to warn you that this is not a right that was easily granted, but from the very name that it is for him and help, it is given to people who need someone else's care, from feeding, from dressing, from following the doctor's leave, not to list. And it can also be diabetes, especially diabetes, which has left such physical and other consequences. So much for the positive relationship in the discussion of people with disabilities and those who allow them to live and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112547	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112548	Well, looks like a respected Madam Representative that you haven't been following me. But what should we discuss if not all categories of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I said just before and this report shows that in Croatia we have about 515 thousand 783 people with disabilities. When we talk about this number then we also think about the military, we also think about the civil disability of the war, we also think about the matter regulated by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. Just before I tried to talk about the number of each other and the amounts that one category or another achieves. And once again, I will apostrophe that civil people with disabilities should pay far more attention to war than it pays because the pain of each other is the same. I didn't say that we should even each other because I especially want to apostrophe the victims of those who, in the name of the State, defended the freedom of all citizens of this country and that's why they get hurt. This should always be particularly regulated, particularly apostrophe, but I also hold that the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War must in a different way guarantee the rights of people with disabilities in that category.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112549	Mrs. Anka Slonjšak's attorney asked for the word. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112550	Here's my thanks to Mr. Caine for his presentation. I would just like to say that the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, its main goal is to protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the age-limit and whatever the cause. In that sense, I believe that this report is not a rat, for one reason why this report was tried to summarise it as much as possible, pointing out the examples and practices that we did during 2014 and on which we were working precisely for the reason that this report refers to our work as the attorney's office, and at the same time to the complaints of those who addressed this office. If some people have spoken from the time of the flood, we have also provided them with all that protection and our counseling and everything else in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, regardless of what I said about the cause. In that part, most often people from the time of the marriage address us about the issue of pension rights. As regards the person related to, who for the cause of the Homeland War, we also listed in the report that segment regarding health care where we are, as you know, when the protests began, related to HRVI, I was actively involved in the effort to meditate and that the Ministry of Health would hold a meeting after which they followed concrete changes related to HRVI. What I was also going to say is that this Attorney General is saying that all persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, regardless of the reason for their disability costs to be met by the system equally, depending on their individual needs. Who suffered for what reason, did he hurt himself at work, was his company perhaps richer or stronger than the other? Whether the cause was by participating in wars etc. Here we are not interested as such, here we are interested that a person with disabilities, in accordance with individual needs, is protected, protected by the state, to be protected by all other citizens in accordance with their abilities and capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112551	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112552	Here's a thank you to the Attorney General for explaining to the gentlemen of HDZ the matter of this report. I'd just like to say one thing, don't read the short reports, read the full reports. But what is even worse, do not deny individual rights or exclude certain categories of citizens who need the community most.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112553	Well, now you're replicating HDZ, not the defense attorney. ... /The noise in the hall./... Don't throw it out of the bench. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists...... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague Dragutin Lesar, and before that, he was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Stjepan Milinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112554	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. A fellow Cain demeans us as advocates, that is what the article says. He tells us how to read, so we read very clearly and insist on focusing on the report. Apparently, he's distracted, that maybe today he didn't hit his own minutes at the beginning of the one that hit how media-free he is, and then here he's excavating his frustrations on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112555	What you're saying next isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I reacted, and you abused the Rules of Procedure. Cain, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112556	If someone demeans the Rules of Procedure, if he disrespects fellow MPs, then it is the representative who spoke before me. But it's easy for us to...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112557	Comrade Cain, do not continue to lead the controversy because this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112558	With all that demeaning of me, you're demeaning the entire category of disabled people in this country. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112559	Please don't banish a serious report with such advances. Comrade Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112560	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing a report that is interesting, and on behalf of the Croatian Assembly, the Ombudsman also covers the interests of more than 515000 people with disabilities. Every eighth person in Croatia has some form of disability. That report is dedicated to them and their problems. At first, I would like to say that Croatia has been carrying out legal discrimination in the past 20 and a few years systematically, without any political will to change it when it comes to persons with disabilities and because in Croatia it is still legal regulations, the right to care, for example, accompaniedness, rehabilitation, health and work, the right to assist, assistants, people with disabilities and supplements, not according to the type of disability, but after the creation of disability. Although there have been several attempts to prescribe the right person with disabilities in a single regulation, depending on the type of disability, we are not further away from that idea or attempts to leave. The disability can occur at birth, disability as a result of sickness, car accident, disability, war, military and civilian, we also have a category of military and police invalids, so the issue of the Croatian Army is not, defenders and police. And we're still acting like people with disabilities, people with disabilities when they're looking for certain rights in a transmitted sense, we're asking why you're blind? Why don't you have legs? Why don't you hear it? Not as a person with certain needs. And so long as we don't change the legal approach, for so long we will have this amount of trouble and need for the Ombudsman to point out in his report on these problems every year. I consider disabled workers to be the most unprotected in one of the most difficult positions. 1998. Croatia had 103,000 pensioners who received disability pensions, disability pensions, 103,000. In March this year is 213 676. In 17 years, 110 000 new disability pensions, in 17 years, 110 000. And when it comes to the agenda, the pension system specifically points to them as a problem of pension, stability of the pension system. And they are often in absurd situations that have established and declared incompetence or remaining partial work capacity. In practice, the Employment Service cannot exercise the right to employment because they do not have either a significantly reduced working capacity, and the conditions for retirement do not have, or the longevity of the procedure from the occurrence of disability to the exercise of the right to pension are not counted in months but years. And in the meantime, they're nobody's vacuum, but literally nobody's vacuum. And it would be interesting to see if anyone can collect data on how many workers and workers who have been identified by the authorised body reduced working capacity in the private sector, in multinational companies and Croatian companies, they have received adequate jobs that correspond to their remaining work capacity. In the public administration, but in the private sector, everyone is kicked out of the labour system, and the state is implementing them for up to 3 years. 23 480 children, students with developmental difficulties in primary schools and kindergartens. There's no such thing as high school data. So now we see from this 23 and a half thousand children, students who are already registered with developmental difficulties will tomorrow be a problem in terms of employment. For 1696 1022 assistants were provided and this is a certain shift if I am not wrong about the relationship, but not thanks to the systematic solution, but most often to associations that have found money, systems with great effort have increased or provided these assistants. One information in a report that I did not fully understand, so it is likely that the Ombudsman will later explain whether 6783 people with disabilities are registered as unemployed. So I understood that information well, and that by intervening the office, it was employed in 1877. So that's the data 1877 to 500 and some thousands of people, that's the annual data. Thank you very much for that. The quota employment introduced by the law was apostrophealed in the report as some progress in the regulatory sense, and that is correct. At the same time, however, it is not only a disability problem, but also a lack of education. Thus, the high school system states in the report has not yet sufficiently accepted educational inclusion as the rights of students with developmental difficulties, nor professional training as a form of support for inclusion. And now we have the absurdity that we have some progress in primary school education, but in high school, so when those with developmental difficulties should be trained, they should learn to acquire certain professions that will be able to meet the conditions that we have imposed on employers through quota employment, there are not enough educated, educated persons with difficulties with the required skills, skills and knowledge. And I'm not sure that we've done the right job for as long as the education system has accelerated procedures, hastening steps doesn't use that chance to give us on the one hand the obligation of quota employment, and on the other hand, the public education system has to enable these people to acquire knowledge and skills so that a legal provision on the employment of a certain number of such persons, the number of employees of the employer, is respected. The education system is not and does not follow this legal norm, this quota employment system and it is not good. And the question arises whether or not the public, but I would also say to private, high and high schools, so also colleges, should I also give the obligation of not quota, but the obligation of enrolment? Colleges seem to me directly to enroll those with 60 percent disability. But what about the lower ones? They simply in this game to get enough points for enrollment for various reasons are most often below the line. And so it's a special category that we don't treat in the education system that way. It is not enough to discuss the situation of persons with disabilities only in the health and social sphere if we do not do so at the same time in the educational sphere. And that's why quota employment for as long as the education system doesn't take advantage of that chance won't have a lot of results. Other topics in the report are barriers or accessibility. I must conclude that it is a shame that in 2015 we must conclude that this problem is not practically moved from a dead end. How can someone approve a project and issue a valid permit for walking trails that end up in the edges of an altitude of 15 cm? Who are these investors? Who approves these projects and issues useful permits for such roads? Who are those who place traffic signs in the middle of a pedestrian or along a pedestrian path where the traffic sign board is at a height of 160 cm or below? In the middle of Zagreb and in the middle of our cities, not on the peripheries. Is it not yet clear to them that not only a pillar is seen but also a traffic sign board that, at that height, can pose an extremely great danger to a person who is undersight or blind? We continue to place such signs and continue to give us useful permits and continue to write and draw such projects. And nothing to anyone. Rampe, kindergartens, schools, health institutions, state and public administration, legal persons with public authority, we always forget about them, cultural institutions. At a school, I asked why they didn't have a wheelchair access ramp. They told me we don't have any students. And then a parenting meeting was attended by a father without both legs in a wheelchair, and the meeting was upstairs. So it's not about the school being not just a child but also a parent who has to come to that facility, to school. And it was only then that they realized responsible that they still had to observe this approach with general useful functions, not just the fact that they do not have one person in the wheelchair at the time. Elevators, walking crossings with guides, guides, or markings for blind persons, are simply something that is not discussed at all in some environments. And, of course, in local self-government, especially before the election, it's all done, but there's almost nothing here because it's clearly estimated that their electoral body of this category isn't so interesting that they should be serious here. You've also apostrophe of the children's extra charge problem for older people over the age of 27. Look, I think the draft law of colleague Novak is in the second reading. Because the Croatian Parliament did not reject the bill, the Croatian Parliament did not accept the proposal that the law was rejected and the law was not rejected. That vote clearly showed. There was a vote on the proposal for a conclusion that the law was not adopted. And that conclusion wasn't adopted. And the president of Parliament, counterpart Novak, has not delivered a conclusion on the rejection of the law, which says he is notifying him that his law has not been accepted. There is no category of notification in the Rules of Procedure. The Parliament does not bring notice but conclusions, as far as I know, Rules of Procedure. According to the report and the following, they had a case of inability of persons with disabilities to participate in TV shows, shows. Refusal of service in a catering facility to a disabled person. Divorce and discrimination regarding the decision to entrust the child. You mention statements, contacts with the media. In cases like this, Ms. Attorney General, so long as we don't publicly present the name and last name and that TV house that hasn't given disabled persons the opportunity to participate in this or this caterer who refused to serve a disabled person, we won't have much progress because it's just a public stamping for them. Like those cases where you gave local self-government some recommendations, it would be good to place it in local media, especially local media, because they're obviously all such insolent, only media exposure. They'll see it as a disgrace. No, but we have to do it. And I end up next, let's try to close our eyes for a moment and imagine taking care of disabled people without having associations that deal with their problems. If all was left to the state system, what would be the situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112561	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112562	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, with your debate, I agree in principle. Yes, and you asked a few good questions, and it was about employment and you wondered how many people with disabilities were employed by private employers? And I'll tell you I've sent an inquiry to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and asked how many people with disabilities are employed in ministries and state-owned enterprises. The results I got were devastating. So the law to be implemented first should as an example be a state to implement it, and believe me, one large majority of employers and private employers in reality have no greater problems in hiring people with disabilities, but you also talked about the rigidity of the education system. Namely, he does not, this education system does not follow the demand, but when we take into account the possibility of persons with disabilities to be educated for certain professions, and this is already pointed out by the assistant attorney, not only assistants in the class, but assistants in the business. So there are a number of problems, you've talked about these obstacles and you've mentioned both roads and everything else, but here it is, one topic of round table will be tourism and people with disabilities. And I think that one particular attention should be paid to that too, because these are people too, and I don't have any obstacles at all, and I don't consider people with disabilities to be others, but people who are also supposed to get into the sea, enter a hotel, which must have the possibility of both swimming and sunbathing and entertainment as well as everyone else on their vacations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112563	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112564	Comrade twilight, I have apostrophe problem that the high school system is not prone to this inclusion, that is, the problem, but this problem is not a year old, two, three or four. I now have to remind you of this: in 2005 and 2006, I repeat to you in 2005 and 2006 my amendments were rejected twice when you were in power when I suggested that the textbooks on the blind person's braid be in the category of textbooks to which children have the right as everyone else. Furthermore, without being thrown, further computers for the blind, who have a voice unit, regular printers and a printer on the braid as the necessity of equipment helped the blind students then I said that this is a standard without which we can practically expect neither in the middle nor in the higher education of those children to be included in the regular school system. You refused those same suggestions twice. And that's why you have no right to complain about it now because you could have done it. You didn't accept. Therefore, you must always walk away from your sin before calling on someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112565	Miss twilight's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112566	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer to Rules of Procedure 238 is an article. Dear colleague, no one complains and it is a shame that you are now working here in the Croatian Parliament because we know that you want to get close to the SDP. I don't care, I don't use politics or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112567	Comrades, colleagues of the twilight
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112568	In 2015, we don't expect to eat with our fingers but to have a fork and a knife. ... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112569	Sit down. Dragutin Lesar injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112570	Madam Vice President, my colleague twilight has not applied to any of the Rules of Procedures, she's practically tried...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112571	You didn't invite a colleague now either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112572	Wait a minute, please let me finish. So you didn't warn her because it turns out that every debate they don't like gets political connotations. And as far as approaching, I don't have to go near anyone, Mrs. twilight, you're worried about it, not me. So this time you've crossed the hearing line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112573	Thank you very much. Neither one of them was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I ask you again, again, to discuss one of these sensitive issues in a very serious and dignified way. Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112574	Thank you very much. You mentioned employment problems, i.e. employees of disabled persons in private and public enterprises. But I will try to convince you, you also talked about figures 1877 if I do not cheat on those hired by the employment office, or intervened in their employment, but they have two cases that I have followed through the media in both cases the Ombudsman was involved, one of the Croatian mails which are a state-owned company and where, if I am not mistaken, 60 people with a new organisation has practically lost their ability to keep a job. There aren't just those people, there are them if I'm not wrong about one of the four people who have the status of a nurse, there may be some place where I'm wrong about what numbers, but it's mostly around here. Then an example of the University of Dubrovnik which I think is one of the most harsh forms of demonstration of the power of politics over all others and one of the most shameless examples if we are to be quite honest. A person with two disabilities, a pardoned person with disabilities and two completed colleges can't get a job but someone else gets it. You mentioned useful permits for individual facilities, if I read this report correctly, it even said that in response the Ombudsman was instructed that competitions were published for the reconstruction of individual objects, so that parents who claim never showed up in public. Which, in my opinion, is also one of the indicators that avoids solving problems. And the Children's Compensation Act, given that your colleagues on this side showed up at the replica at the time you talked about it, I won't, but it'll be very interesting to hear what they have to say about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112575	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112576	So very short colleagues Novak, these cases you mentioned in the post office, Croatian post office, Dubrovnik etc. ...where people with disabilities couldn't keep their jobs, they obviously came to them or to their place politically disabled, so that's compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112577	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112578	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned one part of the examples of misunderstandings and difficulties that are primarily defined towards persons with disabilities, and the basis of presence and access opportunities, above all, to public institutions and other things. So you mentioned one example, and yet the accusation in a way that is mostly guilty is either the mayor or the mayor of someone who manages it. But there's another example, for example, so you said an example of the elevator that where the investment is when you do that and you see that need and you've noticed very well that if you do something not only for the one who uses that facility but also for the people who come, it means general usefulness. If there is still a question of schools to come parents, and the school serves in the second shift when there is no teaching or weekends, many workshops, seminars, lectures and that disabled people can come. It happens to you that you initiate that equipment, initiate this project, program, investment, and then people tell you in the end, so you could invest something else smarter because it doesn't mean anything to them. I mean, on the one hand, you have an idea you have a need for, and then it's even more recognizable by citizens or locals whether that's exactly what you're doing is useful for just one part of our citizens or for all of them. So there are misunderstandings on many sides and it is up to us that we have to, especially us who are mayors to fight it and initiate investments that are primarily for the benefit of all our citizens, especially people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112579	Dragutin Lesar? No, I don't. And Boris Kovac, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112580	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Representative, when you spoke in your debate, at least that's how I understood you in some way implicated the need to raise the level of awareness in institutions, institutions from legislation and to local self-government related above all to persons with disabilities, and you specifically referred to the so-called. urban and construction barriers, and then more clearly called and units of local self-government, contractors of works if I'm not mistaken as I understand it. I could talk about it from another aspect, here's something a colleague said about it and in his 13-year experience I could tell you, in this part you're certainly right, the need to raise awareness but complete. And on the other hand, I've experienced countless times and desire and desire from designers, performers, and we haven't done it right again. For what? This is because the Ombudsman precisely states that experts need to be educated in the importance of applying the principle of universal accessibility design, etc., etc. I wonder where our building is in its centuries-old practice or something like that in that building gallery you have trouble implementing. But when it comes to raising awareness, I ask all of us, can we just talk like that when you're only talking about a culture in traffic if there's no common culture, can we talk about raising awareness of people with disabilities? The day before yesterday, in the eleventh young man, younger than my son, the fact that he didn't get up for me, I was honored, but the elderly, the lady who barely got on the tram, I think we should talk about it. Until we pick it up, it won't be better for a disabled person.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112581	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112582	That you're a colleague of the administration, one question of social consciousness which is the job of all of us, and another problem and that you've well detected is the problem in the profession. Although legal about it exists, part of our profession has not yet clearly mastered that part of the task ahead of them, nor has it been apparent that they have made sufficient efforts to be educated. So I asked how it was possible to get consent to the project and issue useful permits for such failures. And those who issue administrative permits, so there's the state on the other side and because if they were sufficiently educated, they'd force investors and projectors on the projector's burden to fix them. And I hope that for the next 15 years it won't be necessary to simply be the subject of serious debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112583	We don't have any more replicas. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ana Komaric Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112584	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Lawyers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for 2014. The report shall contain an overview of the work of the Ombudsman and her office, as well as warnings of problems, difficulties encountered by persons with disabilities and their families. This report, as everyone has so far, must be seen as a warning and an indication of what we have done well and what we should do to make it easier for people with disabilities to live and to include them fully in the community. The report shows that the number of complaints is growing from year to year, both with all the lawyers and with the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. This fact tells us that the attorneys have become visible in our society, but it also shows that our fellow citizens have more and more information about their rights. In the last 10 years, we've passed a number of laws, regulations to improve the position of people with disabilities, but when compared to this report, it would be said that we haven't moved too much. What we all have to do, what we all have to strive to do, is to ensure that people with disabilities are equalized with the positions of all other citizens, and that's only possible if we all do. On behalf of the SDP Club, I will refer to some parts of the Ombudsman's report because it is simply impossible to talk absolutely about each segment although every segment of this report is important but I will say a few sentences regarding the parts of the report that we at the club seem extremely important. Listening to the debates during the morning, it seems to me that we've all somehow concentrated on the same areas. So I want to say something first about work and employment because work and employment are a prerequisite for an independent life of people with disabilities. As stated in the report itself in 2014 we passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This law introduces quota employment of persons with disabilities, companies with more than 20 employees, the current quota is 3%, and of course incentives have been introduced for those who hire as well as a violation for those companies that do not work with disabilities. As we have already heard at the Employment Office there are currently 6,800 people with disabilities and 1200 people with disabilities who in most cases have the highest secondary education. If we all know that without employment and work, there is no independent and independent life, then we must be concerned about the fact in the report that people with disabilities cannot meet the needs of the labour market, not because of their disability but because they are not sufficiently educated. The D.A. is just pointing out that one of our biggest problems is the education system of people with disabilities. Most of them have finished primary, maximum high school. The systematic resolution of the education of disabled persons should be a priority for all of us. Inclusion from kindergarten to college, this problem can be further observed depending on whether you were lucky to be born in the city or in some rural environment where the conditions for education are even more difficult. Because in cities, the possibilities of inclusion are greater and better, organized compared to rural areas. A colleague, Lesar, mentioned secondary education and the adjustment of secondary schools to disabled people, I think the adjustment of secondary education in the Republic of Croatia is an extremely bad situation. The system of work and education for people with disabilities draws, of course, the accessibility of which has also been a great deal of talk today. Accessibility of institutions and other public institutions necessary for everyday life. So it was said who approves such projects that are not adapted to people with disabilities. I'll tell you the truth. All together. It's not a single construction company, it's a whole society problem. We all approve such a project together. From the mayors, mayors, city councils, designers, monitors to all inspections that follow to allow any institution or road or any object to be placed on the market or hence into operation. So we're not comfortable with schools, we're not comfortable with kindergartens, we're not comfortable with sports facilities, and it's not just for people with disabilities in terms of schools that Lesar used to say that kids, we don't have children with disabilities, so we don't need accessibility. And we're not thinking that someone really might have a parent who would come to the event and go to parenting so they can't go to school and can't participate in their own child's life. So I also appeal to the mayors and mayors, as well as to all of us that when planning budgets and budget items, we bear in mind that there are items for adapting public institutions and institutions to persons with disabilities. In particular, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to refer to a chapter relating to women with disabilities who account for almost 40% of the total number of people with disabilities. What especially needs to be pointed out and what worries is that 77.5% of the total number of disabled women has no primary or maximum primary education which, of course, makes it more difficult for them to be left alone and to be able to start a family. So again we go back to the education system that puts the greatest emphasis, the greatest burden but also the greatest expectations. We are aware that this problem cannot be solved by just one ministry, but it is a problem that will have to be addressed inter-resorically and where we need to work more intensively during the period ahead. In the report, the lawyer praised the shifts that take place in the tourism portfolio, which we also join, given that until now, whenever we have spoken on behalf of the club, we have warned of unfair access to persons with disabilities as tourists in our country, starting with the number of beaches, through the accessibility of the internal hotel facilities themselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me point to the hypocrisy of the society in which we live when we talk about the right to parenting. Most people have great prejudices in the case of people with disabilities, and especially those with a harder form decide to become parents. Most would not approve, and this can be read from the very report where the Ombudsman points out that people with disabilities are considered incapable of parenting. We can ask ourselves what is the difference if you become a parent of a person with disabilities or become a person with disabilities the moment you become a parent. There's no difference. And I'm going to enter into this segment a part of my personal. I'm a disabled child, and I don't consider myself any different or more dejected for my parents' love. In fact, I think I got what the children of healthy parents didn't have a chance to feel, which is additional energy, an additional effort from my father who invested in leading me through life. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, counselors, knock down that huge wall of prejudice because people with disabilities are neither better nor worse parents, they're just parents. Although each chapter in the report deserves special attention, we at the SDP club tried to highlight the parts that we consider most important to ensure the equality of the position of persons with disabilities in society. The SDP Club will support the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities for 2014, and I will conclude my presentation with a quote from the report: ′′ Persons with disabilities are a potential force, not a weakness of society, so they should be treated as such.’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112585	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112586	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, in most of your exposure, of course we can all probably agree and that's the case. What you might point out here, you mentioned especially in accessibility that should affect local leaders to ensure in their budgets the means to remove barriers to the smooth movement of all persons, therefore as you have noted. We just have to put a little bit back there and say that not long ago we've made decisions that make it impossible for local self-governments to function normally, so there will be problems with these items as safe as with everyone else in the local budgets because we centralize, not decentralisation, and then we say that we should do it. But I think that local self-governments, to a greater extent, and in action, show that they are absolutely working in that direction and that they are doing their utmost to make something more possible for people with disabilities and for all those who are not fully available in that section. You were talking about hiring people with disabilities and it's absolutely one of the tasks ahead of us. I will say here in this report... the Ombudsman during 2014 we sent a series of proposals and opinions on legal and sublegal acts in this area to improve and increase the employment of people with disabilities. So now I'm interested in what moves on this plan were made, and these remarks whether there was a shift, whether the ministries reacted, whether something happened in that direction. And I'm just going to give you one example of employment. So social entrepreneurship is one example that we have done in the Križevci precisely for people with disabilities, it should be encouraged, so much, much good can be done in this part of employment for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112587	Ana Comparić Devčić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112588	Comrade Hrg, you said we recently passed regulations, so we centralized the country, etc. According to the Accessibility Act by 2007, all facilities of public use should be accessible to persons with disabilities. We're in 2015. So there's always some things that look through your fingers, so there's no money, so it's hard, so it's like this, so it's like that. No, we just need to make decisions in our heads that we want it, that in this country we want to make it possible for our fellow citizens who are disabled to live the same way as all of us who are not disabled. As far as employment is concerned, shifts have been made, but what the report is saying is a problem in education. In my presentation, I said that people with disabilities have a maximum high school. In the part where I was talking about women with disabilities, 77% of women with disabilities have the highest elementary school or no primary school or maximum basic. So we have a problem simply that our education system has not educated people with disabilities according to the needs of the labour market and we all have to work together. And that's why I said it was a multi-resor problem because one ministry can't solve it for itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112589	The word is from Mrs. Anka Slonjšak's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112590	Thank you. Well, here's what I wanted to say about this accessibility. Accessibility is indeed a broad term, and for each person of different damage, it has a different form of adjustment that it needs. Each year, the Ministry of Defence shall hold a tender concerning the application of units of local and regional self-government projects in cooperation with associations where or founders, etc., where they have the opportunity to apply to this contest in order to make use of the funds offered by the Ministry of Defence. I have to say that this year this contest is not part of this report, but I have to say that this year that this contest was torn down for reasons because there were not enough projects reported by the local and regional self-government units and they went to repeat the competition. It means that the funds actually provided for it, which is about a million and 500 thousand kuna each year as I have stated and in this report there are also two reports just from the Ministry of Defence last and last year, it is an indication that it is actually necessary to identify what needs are in the local environments and to apply to the Ministry of Defence that usually takes place in the beginning of the year, but at the same time consider using these sources of funding infrastructure and equipment between the people's sources for reasons, because it is also the possibility that such funds should be withdrawn here if they are not foreseen by the state budget. Last year's reports when we followed a part of accessibility always somehow turned out to be when at the beginning of the budget when we sent recommendations to the ministries, state institutions, local etc. provide for means to ensure accessibility in its resolutions, i.e. for certain adjustments to the system very easily in the rebalancing process, and in fact it was found that perhaps those 100,000 are not enough, so why would it go to accessibility, better to use it somewhere else where it might be more necessary. So I think the space has, that the funds have just to recognize needs and simply apply to those competitions that are already open. And I have to tell you all once again that the accessibility of adaptation is a basic prerequisite for people with disabilities regardless of the damage they are working on to be able to use resources in this community at all. You can't go to a pharmacy, you can't go to a pharmacy, you can't go to a bakery, you can't go to a job, you can't do a health service, you can't go to a hospital, you can rehab. And actually if we don't secure it that way we really segregate people. And I wonder who will be the first to press charges against Croatia for discrimination regarding accessibility. I think accessibility is a big problem, because despite the fact that there is a Construction Act, there is a Policy on accessibility of insurance. I must stress that there is also a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, which in one segment speaks of forms of reasonable adaptation as one of the exact forms of discrimination and as such speaks of access to goods and services, where if this right is violated as such and where it is not an disproportionate burden for those who need to ensure that we are in this particular way influencing us to ensure access to goods and services. I still wanted to say it. Many environments, we mentioned here, one of these approaches is the availability of transport services. Many environments in their local environments have neither public transportation adapted, nor associations have the possibility of a van, so these persons will set an example of the city of Ogulin where we were recently at the beginning of the year because actually the whole area with surrounding places does not have a van for people with disabilities. It's just one example, but there are some of them, believe me, a sequence that could count for the next few hours. So we all need to make sure that these people, whether in urban or rural areas, whether they are in urban or rural environments, can come to a service that you, as citizens who, without, have no disability, you can do impeccably. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112591	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112592	Thank you very much, Madam Attorney General. You really don't need to replicate in that way that we disagree with something, because we agree with what you're saying. And I'd like to point out some more of the problems we're facing and perhaps get a little more concrete, more detailed information like this in a few sentences about the situation with state institutions and accessibility and what is the situation at local level. So, where we are, did we really stick to what we prescribed for ourselves? I'm sure we all have to work systematically on it together. But I want to point out again some of the problems we're dealing with. So any such invitation to tender is required and additional funds from the local level. Here's an example of the elevator in the Krizhevci at school. So, we got money from the EU in the contest, but we had to double, practically double the amount for the preparatory actions to make more money, so it's one project that grew into a big, huge project. But another example we're facing. Here's yesterday published in the National News Minister Doncic Hajdash abolished the County Road Administrations 110 million kuna. County Road Administrations, so these are local and county roads, which are mostly located in cities and places like this, in the environments. How to resolve accessibility? How do you solve it? With which money to solve if someone does something to you every day to take away what little you still have. So that's one problem, the system has to be set up differently and solve things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112593	Would you like to answer? Anka Slonjšak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112594	Well, actually, I'd like to answer in a way that when we're building something new, we should still consult with those who do. Much has been said here, however, there are positive shifts both at the state level and in the units. There are local units that are truly examples in the sense that they are sensitized, that associations are strong, that they are recognized, that they work together synergy in their environments. But the big problem is when something new is built to actually not, it simply brings a person with disabilities who is a user and some adjustments to say whether it's okay or not. They're going for some adjustments that are absolutely inadequate. I don't know how many times we've received comments from, for example, the Knin Association, how much adjustment was made there without being adequate, or that the maximum indicated in the rulebook was made, and not seeing that it might be a difficult circumstance for a person who, for example, pushes a wheelchair on his own. There are many objects in protected cultural monuments. Very often they are asked and must be asked of the conservation departments of certain consent. We wonder if these cultural monuments are because of us, that we as citizens can all go and see both the cathedral and the museum some and some gallery and the like. Or it's just a building for those who have no disability and can go inside and take a look. So it's not just about money. Construction must be done in some segments anyway. But when it is done, let it be in accordance with the regulations, that some people don't happen because they bought apartments in some buildings they can't get in despite the fact that the hair is supposed to be adequate at the entrance, and then after that we have a problem with changes that are far more expensive than initially seen that these costs can be far less because they are actually by the principles that require both universal design and all other ones that are prescribed in national legislation. I'd just like to touch more here. Yeah, I don't have a chance. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time's up.]] Nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112595	You have another replica, so you'll continue. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112596	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to point out, unfortunately, that all these activities that concern the decision to adapt access to people with disabilities depend mostly on the means. And now there's just a question of how willing someone is to get into the cost of it and secure those funds and how much someone isn't. From experience, here I was honored by your visit to your city where above all we... practice that everything we've done, we've done in a way that we've asked associations that deal with what's best to do to be in office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was only one decision about one project that we otherwise financed from EU funds. People with disabilities said they better have access a little longer through the park at the same level than they have to go on a road that would have to work, say, that platform that's driving. Let's just say we absolutely appreciated that. On the other hand, you said there are many funds that can be used. Here we are last year just using this project from the Ministry of Defence to build an invalidity elevator at our primary school. And we managed to finance and we found and we got 60% of the ministry, 30% of the county and we gave the rest to the city. But at first we co-financed the entire amount, and later we got a refund. So we had to secure it. There are where many colleagues say that the problem is that it is better, little should be defined as such, that it is better if fewer municipalities, above all, who do not have such fiscal capacity, are better given 100% of the amount that they can do than give them 30, 40 or 50%. It doesn't matter, let's say 100 thousand kunas get a city that has a budget of 50 million kunas and that's the same amount of funding that the municipality has 3 million kunas for the same purpose. I think we should talk a little bit about these arguments and then there'd be a lot more efficiency and these kind of competitions wouldn't be canceled because there's no interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112597	Anka Slonjšak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112598	So as far as this contest is concerned, I think that the Ministry as well as those in the task force are willing to listen to all of you who have certain proposals for changing criteria and simply to be more constructive and to benefit those, and these are exclusively persons with disabilities and not units of local people in terms of cities or municipalities, but simply to make changes and adjustments that are made that can be done and done or done. I just wanted to get more accessibility, and we're in last year's, as every year, trying to get as much of the minimum research on the accessibility of certain facilities as possible. And I wanted to say that there are positive shifts. For example. Social care centres have indeed made adjustments and are not yet all but, in part or entirely accessible, there is indeed one large number of people with physical damage and use of certain aids. There is a big problem with the regional offices of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, also the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and the particular problem is the judiciary. Right now we have one discrimination which we have received recently, a complaint of discrimination regarding access to the Administrative Court in Rijeka. So what I'm saying is that the problem is really big, accessibility is something that's a basic prerequisite, and as a matter of fact, it's all of us who need to look at and make sure that access is secure for everyone. One big problem is also related to housing policy, especially many people who later suffer injuries and already live in flats that are on floors, in old buildings built in the '80s and in some of their private facilities have a problem because these areas are privately owned, the local units do not have the ability to provide funds in terms of private property. The law gives the opportunity to improve and there's no money in the reserves. I think local units should work on changes in housing policies for citizens living in their environments, given the conditions from social to accessibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112599	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112600	I would like to thank the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorneys, co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2014 will support the HDZ club by respecting the efforts and work of the Ombudsman and its office to protect, monitor and promote rights and interests of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the Ombudsman's annual reports, she occasionally makes another 2. This year we had a report on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN and the Report on the State of Persons with Autistic Spectrum, which was held in this House recently, and all with the intention and aim of contributing to the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. As we all said, we saw the report, and the debate in the opening part of the Ombudsman was really extensive and high-quality, many areas of action were covered and very difficult to cover. Each of us chose some. When we talk about people with disabilities, we often find ourselves in a situation where we wonder if we are and how equal we are? The lawyer's report concludes that persons with disabilities are not equal members of our society, in real life, in practice, although we have a good legal basis since in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, international agreements, conventions and agreements on the rights of persons with disabilities but a sense of inequality, the sense of discrimination is just stemming from the proportionality of the application of the law in practice that we have all talked about so far. After 5 years of the adoption of the Law on Discrimination, there is no progress, so it seems to us that all these reports, our annual reports, are very similar and look similar to each other. In order to have insight into the complexity and scope of the prosecutor's work, we need to look at the overall difficult social picture in a country where the severe economic crisis has affected all citizens especially those with disabilities even more. And we can imagine the quality of life of people with disabilities if they do not make their income by pay or pension and we know that they have long or have not been in the world of work at all and they are users of social benefits, personal disability and other benefits arising from a caritative approach to people with disabilities who are very low and not allowing anyone to live a decent life, but to live a real life at the limit of existence. The most enquiries to the Ombudsman were precisely because of the determination of the property and income price to achieve the first from the welfare system, especially on the status of the custodian, the unequal situation of children with developmental difficulties in the achievement of the child's allowance, which we talked about in the morning debates. Strongly placed legal frameworks, lack of personnel in the work of expert advisory work leaves dissatisfaction with citizens and mistrust in the system even when possible. Despite the number of warnings, the Advocate General is the intervention in the adoption of the Social Care Act, and we know that she has even made observations, i.e. charges, and to the Constitutional Court. Legal solutions are not in line with the social model of disability. The adoption of so often mentioned Act on an inclusive supplement whose purpose would be to equate the situation of persons with disabilities with persons without disabilities because disability itself requires additional costs. Personal disability as well as some social care benefits should not be treated as social assistance, but help to increase the cost of life that a person with disabilities has to suffer from an increased cost of disability. Even what is not well introduced is participation in the price of services used by children with developmental difficulties who need, for example, early intervention of work occupation or some other forms of psychosocial rehabilitation which are as important as health care. This participation can reach 50% of its own income as well as socio-economic status itself and children. In addition to the socioeconomic status and the difficult situation in material rights, the situation of disabled people and their life in inadequate housing needs to be highlighted. They either live in inadequate living rooms or are not taken care of. In apartments where there is no adjustment, and now we have talked about them in general about removing architectural barriers alone if their private apartments do not have their own financial means to make and adapt these apartments, and if these are funds from the reserve, then they are not either if they live in large residential buildings. The problem is so difficult that it not only leads to isolation of people with disabilities from the local environment but also prevents them from having the basic needs of life to be achieved in their own living space. The housing policy is left to units of local self-government and depends not only on their material strength but also on the consciousness, and the need and way of providing for this population. The Republic of Croatia has defined the transformation of large accommodation facilities that exist in housing facilities, i.e. Inclusions. They don't have enough. The problem of housing is still present. Most of the living space is agreed with private persons with a limited period of one year or is financed from funding from various projects and programmes, which leaves the user with the impression of uncertainty. The problem of housing is also clear among children who finish high school education at the Centres for the Education of Children and Youth when they are suspended from their homes after 18 years of age they have no place to go because their homes do not have or are not adapted to the housing of persons with disabilities and refer to accommodation in homes for older and powerless persons who are not suitable for their age or the content of services provided in those institutions or in the Centre for Rehabilitation Lek which is in a coalition with deinstitutionalisation policy. There is no network of services that would provide care or support for people with disabilities so that they can survive in their own apartments or organised housing communities even in large cities, let alone those small areas, or rural areas. As a result, the Ombudsman states that there has been an increase in complaints compared to 2013 by as many as 89% and 22% by individuals, and we have already said that the most often refers to the exercise of employment rights, social care rights, health care and education. An increase, such an increase in the complaint or address of the Advocate General, can be interpreted as an increased and good work by the Ombudsman because her role in society has been revived, is widely known. The existence of awareness of persons with disabilities and the need to seek to protect their rights remains a fact and fact that violations of the rights of persons with disabilities still stand. It is, of course, necessary to educate experts and disabled persons on these various forms of discrimination from the basis of disability, empower them to report and process. The lawyer says that it is necessary to focus attention on the launch of legal advocacy procedures for persons with disabilities to change the trends of pointless complaints against discrimination because those who do so do not suffer any consequences, and people with disabilities have been brought into the situation that the burden of proof and failure is transferred to them alone. A hate crime against people with disabilities is a severe circumstance, but as such it is not recognized enough for people with disabilities to report them, but not for those experts who are responsible for protecting those persons to prosecute the guilty. People with disabilities are often exposed to violence, especially women, children of violence and in families. We highlight her work in the area of legislation, the submission of proposals, opinions and amendments and the addition of regulations. More significant changes to the legislation, according to the Ombudsman's opinion, took place in the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons, etc. quota employment, but it is noted that there is still a problem because employers have not adapted their working environments, there is no harmonisation of qualifications and interest of persons with disabilities with labour market needs, there is no single nomenclature of occupation, etc. What I'm going to point out is that working therapy is primarily a health care activity, it aims to enable individuals and groups to achieve optimal functioning in daily life activities, it allows only care, productivity, it enables quality free time. The Ombudsman, when we talk about work and employment, warns that the new Labour Act adopted has set a lower level of protection for persons with disabilities than before. It is necessary to protect people with disabilities more strongly than possible cancellation or mobbing as well as those they care about. It should also be pointed out that the Ombudsman points out, and this is seen from the laws and activities adopted so far, a positive understanding of the problem of persons with disabilities at the Ministry of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which changed the rules and made it possible through the Proposed Law on Professional Rehabilitation to employ persons with disabilities, as well as a change in the rules relating to the activation of family pensions at the end of employment or at the time of retirement, to choose between their own pensions and family pensions. It is also evident that such a similar understanding has not been achieved in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and there is a lack of interdepartmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112601	May I have your attention, please, to allow your colleague to take the club's position? Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112602	Many violations of health and health care rights, heavy availability of health services and rehabilitation treatments have been particularly disabled since we know that people with disabilities are very often referred to more frequently and continuously using health services because of their problems. Only the orthopedic aid rule has changed 11 times, which was not only by the attorney general but also by various associations, in which the public is known through the stepup and protest of parents, and it has been written by the media. A similar situation is also the case with assistants in the setting and such lack of safe and permanent financing for users of services leaves a glimpse and a mistrust in the system. Children with developmental difficulties are allowed inclusive education in primary and pre-school institutions, but complaints do not concern implementation in practice due to lack of money, lack of educated staff, poor cooperation with other external experts and specialists. The Advocate-General warns of an obligation taken by the signing of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that each child has the right to a real chance in education and education. I will finish by the end because the debate is interrupted, to point out the difficult position of women with disabilities most discriminated against both gender and disability-free women and their disability. They are in a particularly difficult position, a very small shift or lack of education in their unemployment, and the attitude in the family is such that they should not be educated, they are mostly housewives in a narrow or wider family. If they are located in an institution, only those basic needs without privacy shall be met. I'm going to point out that the D.A. is pointing out the grief that the Family Law has been suspended, which in some way has abolished the total depravity of the business ability. The institute was often abused not only for the material benefit of the guardians but was also a shortcut to taking away parental rights of disabled people. It's increased discrimination and human rights abuse. We all know that people with disabilities should be equal, that they are extremely socially valuable to us, that they should not have a merciful approach but allow them to come true in their family environment in the world of work and to contribute to the social community. To this we are bound by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which warns us, and that is the biggest problem of harmonising legal regulations and enforcement in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112603	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112604	We're going back to the hearing on the Attorney General's work for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112605	We will now hear the replica of counterpart Djurdzice Sumrak at the presentation of counterpart Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112606	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Murganic. I've been listening very carefully to your debate. Like any debate, you've really been both concrete and correct this time, and you've pointed to all the good that's been done for people with disabilities, and that's what the D.A. was talking about. My thing, the only thing that wasn't right, was that you couldn't properly maintain your debate to be heard. Not even the lawyer in one second seemed to want to break it up because it was impossible to listen. And even now, colleagues who aren't interested might be able to come out and talk, so I'm asking the vice president to move them, too, because that's not the topic they're interested in. The topic, which I wanted to say, was that in 2008, the D.A.'s office was just established for people with disabilities, and somehow from those years, we're getting to know each other in reality about all the problems of people with disabilities. You mentioned women, and indeed women are discriminated against as you yourself said triple. And what is true for all of us is that the right to work should be the basis of human rights, but that is a prerequisite for achieving independence on the assistance of others, the possibility of independence in decision making and life choices, and independent life in the community. I really don't understand. The vice president doesn't warn you, but... Goodbye! I'm so glad they talked like that. Here's another piece of evidence from an esteemed colleague, as well as the esteemed attorney of respect, decency and home care. But also about the interest in the subject, so when the cameras move away [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Time. It's time, co-worker.]] The esteemed attorney then all those who strongly advocate they have disappeared a long time ago. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112607	You fellows are asking to be listened to, aren't you? You've been talking for 30 seconds longer than you are. [[/Twilight raider: What?]] Replica reply, colleague Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112608	Yes, here's everything you said, but the condition will surely remain the same. Unfortunately, and our behavior in the Parliament, and probably, and then the relationship to everything, this problem that we're talking about. I apologize once again that my debate may have been inadmissible, but next time I suggest that colleagues who only enter the assembly to vote do so at exactly 12:00 p.m. if the work is scheduled for debates. I would like to point out to the end that we talk very often about raising awareness, level of consciousness. The lawyer also tries especially when some days are marked by people with disabilities. It's at least an opportunity to raise awareness of the state of people with disabilities in society, try to do something about it, try to educate ourselves young generations about this problem, about avoiding discrimination. Even some of the times that we do unconsciously in some kind of stereotypes, speeches and conversations. Well, I wanted to put an end to my argument in that sense. I don't think we're much of a public figure today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112609	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112610	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Attorney General. A month ago, we had a special report from the Ombudsman on persons with disabilities related to the protection of people with autism, and today we have a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2014. And it's good that it is. People with disabilities deserve to be spoken to often and certainly with a desire to improve the condition of people with disabilities as soon as possible. My debate in my Club of the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats will be similar to all other discussions, in a positive sense regarding improving living conditions and working people with disabilities. As every year, it should be noted that Croatia is a country with a relatively large number of registered persons with disabilities. That's close to 12% of the population. And the data from this report is 515 782 persons and these are the cities of Split, Rijeka and Osijek together. It's a big number of people. We must all work harder together to take the problems of people with disabilities as seriously as possible and to solve them systematically, quickly and in quality. Every person is born with four inalienable so-called. natural rights, right to life, right to freedom, right to security and right to happiness. And no one, not even a parent, let alone a state, should be allowed to endanger or take those rights away from any person. However, while growing up, responsibility for each individual and its growth or development are borne primarily by parents, and after the adulthood or completion of schooling, a person bears responsibility for himself except for persons with disabilities. With them, the state bears full responsibility. It is the state that designs and improves the living conditions of people with disabilities with the help of family and community. And not as the owner and dictator of people with disabilities but especially gentle, thoughtful and highly professional with piety and respect for every person with disabilities especially because every person with disabilities is different and special and every person is a valuable, valuable member of society. Croatia was created in the most difficult way possible, by disintegrating the former state through a bloody, imposed war. At the same time, the process of transition and the process of building state institutions at all levels took place. The problems were huge, from many dead and wounded in the war through semi-functional institutions to a robbed economy that, apart from the loss of factories, businesses and entire industrial branches, led to a great tragedy of countless human fates. In very important development moments, we have not been able to cope at all, or we have not been able to cope very well. How difficult it was for us to feel today. The generic triumph is Croatia's entry into NATO and the EU. The processes of entering these two associations have enabled us to have an institutional framework that we are wrestling with today. For 3.5 years, the government has been struggling to correct all mistakes and irregularities of unsolicited anacronisms in a country inherited by former governments. In these difficult and frustrating processes, along with other citizens and citizens, they suffered and suffered people with disabilities. And they suffered and suffered harder than anyone else. With the introduction of the Ombudsman institute, the current Ombudsman for people with disabilities began a period of more systematic and quality care for our fellow citizens with disabilities. And that shows this report. Unfortunately, as my colleagues said before, time does not allow us to devote ourselves entirely to all areas of this excellently drawn report on some 270 pages, so we will look back on only some parts. In this report, the Ombudsman’s report also states that some people with disabilities are in increasingly difficult social conditions and rarely live under conditions of poverty. This, in our opinion, is inadmissible in the HNS, and this way we call on all state institutions, especially the Ministry of Social Care to do everything possible to ensure that no person with disabilities lives in conditions of poverty. For people with disabilities, funds must be found to live with dignity and meet the highest standards that the community can afford. The lawyer's role is dry. She and her entire small office are doing their job with a much larger engagement than expected or legally imposed. The role of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities is different and more specific than any other lawyer's office. She can really help. Personally, I believe that the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities should significantly extend powers and that resources should be significantly increased both for technical and personnel teams related to the extension of powers. I believe that, in certain cases, the Office of the Advocate General may act and address specific problems of individuals with disabilities and in the fields of all possible protection of persons with disabilities but also therapeutic. It is certainly important to mention a number of organizations that are dedicated to helping and finding a solution to a better and better quality life for people with disabilities and their families. However, the importance of labour control and the importance of systematic vocational education of members of these associations should be noted. Otherwise, the Ombudsman points out, it is necessary to systematically educate everyone and at all levels related to any kind of communication with persons with disabilities. It is especially important to sensitize children, young people, and all others related to understanding people with disabilities in the sense that they are not some poor people there but that they are full, valuable, and respected members of our society only with somewhat different needs than they are in general. We have previously said that during the hard 25-year period of construction of the state and its institutions the most suffered and suffered persons with disabilities and that with the introduction of the Ombudsman institute, that is, in this case, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities began a period of more systematic and quality care for our fellow citizens with disabilities. We in the HNS seem to have lost ourselves a little bit in this period as a human being. It seems to us that in all these fears for ourselves, for the state, for freedom, for the future for us and for our loved ones somewhere along the way, we have forgotten a necessary part of humanity, and this is the most obvious thing about our relationship with people with disabilities. It is wonderful to see the solidarity of Croatian citizens in certain major tragedies, such as great humanitarian aid in floods in Slavonia or in raising funds for overpriced treatment of patients abroad and so forth. But it's part-time action. Important, necessary, large and valuable actions or caused by current accidents. In the vast majority, much of Croatia lacks those daily human natural concerns for our people with disabilities so necessary for their normal lives. How is it possible that today there are institutions, institutions of the state, especially at local level, shops, cafes, restaurants and many other public spaces that are not adapted to disabled people? A simple ramp does not cost more than 200 kuna, a voice message for the blind does not cost more than 500 kuna, a written notice for the deaf does not cost more than 100 kuna, one extended place in the restaurant for the person in the wheelchair does not take more than one chair, one public toilet adapted to the disabled in the city center can not cost nearly as much as one who the maids do not understand on the edge of the city. And that's why we at the HNS are pleading for society as a whole, all from state institutions and competent ministries to associations and individuals, so that we all seriously address the underlying problems of people with disabilities. We have one proposal, in high schools we impose various obligations on students, we from the HNS propose to introduce mandatory volunteering in humanitarian associations or public cuisines or caritative organisations or special institutions and hospitals in all secondary schools or to assist individuals in all secondary schools students at least twice a month. We believe that apart from the need for systematic care for people with disabilities, it gives us a chance to be a better person, and that makes the whole society more tolerated, better, nicer, happier. We at the HNS seem to need this at this point in particular. Chances always exist. Let's take advantage of her. The fact is that the situation today is incomparably better in both legal and enforcement terms than it was four years ago, but it is still far, far from satisfying. And what do we do? It is only necessary to implement or implement the recommendations set out in this report by the Advocate General for persons with disabilities. The HNS club of Liberal Democrats accepts and thanks for this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112611	A colleague of Nada Murganić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112612	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, of course, I expected you to be in the debate, given that you are the representative of the ruling majority, or coalitions, to refer to the period during which nothing was good until this government arrived, and this government has, in your words, been trying to introduce order in these three years. I don't think it's the least useful to a person with disabilities. In this report, we should have talked about what was done in 2014 with the aim of making certain conclusions unique and trying to improve what is repairable and certainly the goal is for you to agree that we are moving forward rather than constantly looking back to the past. So I will only replicate the part where you said that the role of the state is to protect people with disabilities and is, and I fully agree with you and agree that associations are very important in promoting the rights and protection of persons with disabilities. The civil initiative, especially those with disabilities, has progressed there, but we may have come into one situation, and the Ombudsman may have something to say about it and to say that, because of their proactive role, they may also have shifted those obligations that are already growing in their financial and human resources and may not be their primary role. I wanted to say that there is a danger that the burden from institutions will move to associations which may not be without the help and support of the state will be an adequate replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112613	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112614	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues, first of all, what you said to the organizations really needs to be recognized because a number of people are selflessly helping people with disabilities and their families who are also involved and these families are experiencing a certain disability because of their disabled members and because of various unadjusted situations that we have not been able to solve as a society. You should be very careful with these associations, you should help them, you know the same thing that they are funded from the state budget and their function is clear. And they need to be careful about what they do and should be helped in education to be as professional as possible and their work as best as possible. And as for the first one, it's a struggle for the truth. We must start fighting all together for the truth, for the true word in public space. It's so semi-information, it's so many lies, it's so flossular right now in the media that we all have to fight for the truth in public space together, and you and we and from now on, always. Truth and only truth can lead this country forward. All the floscules, all the nonsense they're talking about and about your president about all this has to be backed up by the truth. And these remarks that will remain until the end of my term will only be for the purpose of the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112615	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112616	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've been talking about a better social status for people with disabilities. Well, in principle, that you're from the opposition, I wouldn't be reporting for replication, but since you come from the governing structure, then I have to say that here in that department, social care centres write with difficulty in accessing social benefits that would enable a satisfactory quality of life and the settlement of basic needs of life have been increased and the number of complaints about welfare centres and employees of the centre. The fact is that the dissatisfaction of their users in one part has the character of personalizing general dissatisfaction with a system that is insufficient or generally not helping to overcome difficulties. That's what the D.A.'s office report says. You also talked about public spaces and availability in restaurants and in other absolutely yes, here I agree with you. But just before, the D.A. said, welfare centres, retirement institutions, health care institutions, courts are the biggest accessibility problem. So we can't do that after four years now. We could say, look, it's true there's a problem, but in those four years we've done it, that, that and that would be to say it's kind of a normal debate about this topic of those who are responsible for the functioning of the system. The system does not function to a sufficient extent, or it is really complemented by it, as the association had just said. These associations deal with things they shouldn't be dealing with and there's a big problem. We're doing the same thing every year because from year to year things change, so it happens to you that you have an assistant in one year's class, and then you have one, and then you have it for half the time because the system doesn't work, and then the associations jump in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112617	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112618	Thank you very much. Once again, I will say my personal point of view, which is that many people in a number of associations are really in favour of this community and are really for the benefit of people with disabilities. In the debate on behalf of the club, I said that they should be controlled and what they are doing and that they should be helped with the expertise with education to be as good at their work as possible. And as far as I'm concerned, let me just read one sentence before the end of the debate on behalf of the club that is said, the fact is that today the situation is incomparably better both in the legal and implementing sense than it was four years ago, but it's still far from satisfactory. We're not satisfied, nor are we in the coalition. You listened today to colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition or colleagues who spoke about this report and the state of the persons with disabilities in Croatia. But it's not from today and it's not from 3.5 years ago. This situation has been here since 1990, since we have an independent state and we are responsible for all of us in politics since that day, whether we were in power or in opposition, but clearly everyone with very clear powers and everyone at their level of government. The situation today with people with disabilities is not from 3.5 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112619	Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112620	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Blažekovic, you've spoken, and we're all attorneys today and the attorney's report is a lot of words of discrimination, misunderstanding, misunderstanding of the environment, misunderstanding of institutions, I'd say that's the result, and I'll let myself say that this is the result of a long-standing relationship with people with disabilities, I'll allow myself maybe a harder word, it's segregation in different homes, institutions and the way we treat people with disabilities in some past, and today we have what we have. So the situation right now is the way it is for all of us to work to change you from the past. You mentioned the sensitization of young people and children, I agree with you but I'm not sure that your proposal is going towards mandatory volunteering because you know at that age in high school something when it's a commitment I'm not sure that's the best way. What we all have to advocate is an inclusion. We have an inclusion in kindergarten, we have an inclusion in primary school, but that's where we stand. So if our children from the first moment of their education system were with a person with disabilities, but not to be an exception but to be a rule, then surely when they came to high school they wouldn't know the difference between whether or not a person with disabilities and a completely different concept of persons with disabilities and conditions in society would be that they were an integral part of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112621	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112622	Thank you very much. So about this proposal, he's going from a position like a female quota for the Parliament. Namely, until you impose something conditional on you as an obligation, it's easy to go over it. I get the feeling that in these 25 years, we've lost that one sense of community, one feeling that it's most natural for you to plant your back and go help whoever needs it. We have a lot of people with disabilities, we have a lot of older helpless people who also need help. If you introduce something that can look like a burden to young people at first, and you know that young people always make it at the end and party. And if you force them to volunteer at first, they end up doing it with pleasure and will. Look at only young people who really and volunteer because they have them, not that nobody volunteers, we have great young volunteers, you see on them when they're done with that clock or two hours help their satisfaction on those faces, smiles, joy and I have the impression that they're happier people than those who don't volunteer. And from that position, the women's quota to enter the Parliament was that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112623	We are moving on to the individual debate of colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112624	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the whole report, of course, is very extensive, exhaustive and should also be commended for your intensive activities you've been doing this past year. Today a lot of topics are open and said in discussions, so I will look back on one topic that you mentioned in the opening part, which is early intervention and as a special priority in the need to provide services in communities where children with developmental difficulties live. From the data that you have presented it is actually 4800 people who need early intervention, but unfortunately only 13% is used, i.e. the availability is only 13%. Here is the Social Care Act, which introduces the right to early intervention as a social care service with the aim of preventing serious damages and of course requires various adjustments to the overall system for the same. Early intervention is provided to a child whose early age has identified a deviation in development, i.e. development risk or developmental difficulties and timely treatment procedures are, of course, more effective and cost-effective than the treatment procedures undertaken at school age when the difficulties are accumulated. The Social Care Act also states who can provide early intervention services. Among other things, these are associations and today there have been speeches, the question is whether associations are adequate in this assistance or whether it is my concern to move on to another. However, I would actually make the state that associations are very important, or civil society that is a very significant factor and that no matter how proactive they play that it is good and I will consider that civil society, or associations that are partners to local self-government units and I will actually say that through an example of what we do in the city of Dubrovnik, is an example of good practice. The city of Dubrovnik actually accesss the introduction of a new service in the community. In the area of Croatia, parents are beginning to see difficulties in the development of the child, on average it is now about 30 months but only after that is the great quest for help. And here I must stress however many early rehabilitation services on the motor development plan are relatively well covered in the health care system through health services and physicists and neuropediatra remain naturally uncovered early habilitation in the field of speech. So we have data that even the group, so the group of children that comes to the professional assessment age is 3.5 years old, even half of them actually don't speak 44% yet. In this sense here I will again say the example and in Dubrovnik is now received another logo at the General Hospital of Dubrovnik which is working very well and in this case on early intervention. The problem also represents the fact that a significant part of parents for various reasons is not registered in the system at all because they have never sought to achieve their rights, rights for their children. And what I'm saying is, we've done a recent rally and, according to a brief survey conducted among the participants of the Round Table, there were as many as 50% of our parents and we were very surprised by it. Although this information does not have to be transmitted, it cannot be automatically transferred to the entire population, however, it points to the fact that the number of parents and children in need of support and potential beneficiaries of early intervention is significantly greater than the number of which the official institutions have. And in order to better achieve the rights of parents with developmental difficulties, however, priority needs to be highlighted, and this is to improve the information system for children with developmental disabilities, then better information and networking of all professionals working with children with developmental difficulties and strengthening of course the professional staff that we have highlighted today. And an important segment is actually to help these parents, or in the work of counseling and psychological self-porting such parents. An example for all children involved in the early intervention system being done in the city of Dubrovnik at school, in fact, this progress is seen in the area, in three areas and in the area of communication, the area of sensory, or the area of reducing unwanted behaviour. I therefore had to mention this example of good practice, i.e. the example of associations, the Association of Healthy City in Dubrovnik and in cooperation with the Association I go and a special friend and with our Department of Education and Education as a unit of local self-government. We've already made a few meetings and round tables and stands, etc. And on the subject of early intervention challenge in the local community. It also discussed the current situation and the way in which the early intervention service already exists in the city of Dubrovnik was provided. Now we're actually doing an early intervention program, and this year we're also going to apply to funds. I can also say that there have been a lot of complaints today, but a mother wrote me a message, she called me, so I wrote it on this paper that it should be commended, commends the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for what is now being paid, or for giving oxygen that had to be paid before. Also in early 2015 HZZO approved a wheelchair that had to be paid by now, which is about 15 thousand kuna, is their price. That it's between seven and ten years. However, this may not be good because it does not have to mean years, a person or a child with difficulties may be years old and fewer weights that satisfy such a wheelchair. But there are also good examples where children with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties emphasize. And finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected attorneys, no matter how far we go into this area of people with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties, we never got enough, but all of us, of course, need to work in this area as wide as possible, and I think we're moving, but I've been following this area for years, and I think that the shifts are being seen, and each of us has to give our share in this segment, and we don't have to wait. We can't solve everything systematically, we need to strive to do it, but we still need to solve each and every part of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112625	Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112626	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm glad you set a positive example. I'm also particularly glad that you looked back in some way on a new one to say the forms of help and the people with disabilities, and above all their families, such as early intervention and psychosocial assistance. And then normally how when we discuss it, then we always go from what we do, but that's how we set legal options and standards pretty high, and we should do it, but we fall for implementation. You set a good example. I would unfortunately be able to set a bad example where because of the, cities are covered, in cities is well, public transportation can get to that child, to his family, can also parent... this child so with a tram, bus to go to that centre where he can get adequate help or some rehabilitation. But those areas where they cover defecologists per 100 km in a circle where they can carry out one or two children in contact, coming to their house, so on. Patronage, we fall for the banal thing. The facility can't provide a defecologist with one car. Or we fall for the fact that we can't hire a defecologist because we have this fantastic employment ban where in public institutions, social institutions that provide social services, so I don't want anyone to answer me right now, so he tells me how you used to be. Then there's no progress. We are talking about 2014, with a tendency to grow and develop these services to protect people with disabilities for the future. In 2015, there should be an even better report with more positive things that have been pointed out by the Ombudsman and all of us on behalf of the club in that debate. So I don't expect you to deny it to me right now, but I just wanted to point out that some times the associations are reporting for these projects, and what if these projects aren't going to happen, we want to do that kind of early intervention then we can't do it anymore. It's the role of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112627	Thank you very much. Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112628	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I am now looking from the point of view of my city, or my environment in which I am. We don't have to wait, the law was clear, the law gave us the opportunity to work, and now we've had in the budget last year a surplus budget. You know where we're headed? One part for people with disabilities. ... Be careful, I say from my example. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Besides, you say in rural areas the question is what's going on out there. Well, we don't have to wait for someone else to tell us that, so we're gonna make our own mobile teams out of town, and we're gonna go and help people like that, of course. You understand? I mean, we need to be innovative, we can't all wait for everything to be served on a tray like this. We need to think about how we can actually in some legal frameworks in which we can help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112629	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112630	Well, I'm just going to comment on what you said in the end, actually, because at first you asked yourself a question and to all of us, whether associations are professional enough, whether associations are qualified enough to do such hard work that they took over from these associations. So some yes, some no. You set some good examples yourself, and I personally have very good examples. The organizations have indeed taken up this space in some areas and have become not only partners with local self-government but have become administrative departments for people with disabilities. They're doing these great jobs, they're volunteering with a real heart. But here's '99. I had the honor of running a founding congregation in Križevci. Today, this association has not only sensitized the public, made a series of projects, made a lot of accessibility, today it employs around 30 people who are directly in the system to help people with disabilities or to hire people with disabilities. But the problem is in the other part, so it solves issues not only of the city but of the surrounding municipalities by gravitating, so it's conjectured. But the question that is being asked, after so many years, so much is generally done in the shifts for the better in these 20 years in Croatia, but the system should, for example, be able to set things up and do things now and what already works through the association... put in the system and ensure continuity and safety of functioning, not that one year you have an assistant, another year you don't have it, one year you have help for people with disabilities in the house, the second year you don't have. So that's where we goof.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112631	Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112632	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrg, I think we all have to stand up for deinstitutionalization, and we're just pushing for deinstitutionalization in this way and civil society associations are really becoming partners, and of course we need to see who these associations are in the local environments. We're all calling public needs, specifically here in the social community, public health needs. So we know who we're giving, who we're contacting. We know who we give and who we give money to, or who we give a partnership to, for people with disabilities, or for children with developmental difficulties. In particular, in my area and in the wider area of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we really have very good associations that we cannot do this good job without them. There's the D.A.'s office on the ground, and I think she can also confirm it. Therefore, there is also a profession in these associations, not only volunteers without a waist, but of course the waist is very important and present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112633	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112634	Thank you very much. We're all kind of local patriots, and it's nice to hear someone talk, this is how they give positive examples. But I think there's been a suggestion from here in another direction that the financial capacity of cities and municipalities on the Adriatic and financial capacity in Lika or Banovina or Moslavina I don't think they're very forward and that maybe it's not a real, good topic to discuss here. But you list positive examples from Dubrovnik. I don't know if you've listened to my argument, or whether it's a reply to the replica. In that same Dubrovnik, you have one of the examples that I have cited, as I recall you are part of the Dubrovnik executive authority. Have you done anything and what will be done? And I'm telling you that it's gone so far, that even from what I know, the inspectorate has been put into political office. The person who applied for employment at the University of Dubrovnik with 2 colleges, that it was in the media exactly, and eventually it did not pass. She gets a rejection, even though they don't have an employee who should have, the number of people with disabilities. What was the reaction? That's what I think we can cite, draw positive examples and it's nice to know about them and that's okay. But what it's worth when we fall for this kind of banal stuff, when politics says okay. You may have rights under all the laws of this world, you may be entitled by the Constitution, by international conventions, but I will do what I want. What message is that? And finally, given that I have so much time, I'd like it not to be like all these years ago, which unfortunately was the result of this debate as soon as the debate is over, there's no result. It's all over here. I hope that finally the government will react regardless of whose, to respond and accept these views and recommendations in the report. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112635	Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112636	Thank you very much. Well, colleague, I think it's clear that we can present in the Parliament examples of good practice, and yes, I am part of the executive authority. I'm the deputy mayor, and I absolutely disagree with the fact that a person with disabilities wasn't admitted when she had all the conditions at the university. However, I must say that we as a city are not, of course, a university is an independent institution, or that we as a city have no right to do so at all. Like you and I, we can react to the need for people with disabilities to have an advantage, that is, if it suits the workplace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112637	And now I'm going to ask the D.A. for people with disabilities for the final word. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112638	I would like to thank all the parliamentary deputies and the MPs who have been involved in today's debate. I'm sorry that this report is always being conducted in a way that before that vote at 12.00 hours indeed when in this case it was, this time it was the representative of the HDZ Club, then last year and before last year were other representatives and always somehow those fifteen, twenty minutes really can't be heard at all or the translator couldn't hear what the MP was saying so she could even pass on to those who are watching over television screens. I therefore think that it might be appropriate to consider and consider how the proposal may be amended by the Rules of Procedure or by some act governed by the Assembly in a way that those who speak in the debate 15 minutes before the debate ceases, because it does not make sense, because people come in and out simply, or parliamentary representatives, do not mind those who say it or what they say. As for the disabled society, I didn't specifically mention them only at the beginning. In short, you have opened the debate here, and I thank you for that, because it is the associations of persons with disabilities in Croatia that carry out legislation, which are, by their engagement, by the efforts of the persons who work, who are employed, who volunteer and who are involved in ensuring the primary needs of the people and children with disabilities. In this area in many parts such as Dalmatia, Slavonia, Like and in other parts there are unfortunately only those who perform the primary needs of early intervention services, transport services etc. and that there are no such associations and such strong fighters, such parents, such persons with disabilities themselves, I don't know how these people living in these areas could even access and rehabilitate and join in the life of the community at all. This is not an excuse and I think that the state in that part should provide for all persons because it is a signator of various international legislation documents, an equal approach, equal right, dignity, the enjoyment of all rights and in that part pours one very large uncertainty for all those people living in these areas. People with disabilities are as much from this debate as they do every year, from the debate when people with disabilities are expected and expected more, they expect each of you to say what you do on your field, to bring problems, to bring out positive practices, to change experiences. However, the report shows that there are actually fewer and fewer parliamentary representatives who are specifically expressing their views, attitudes from their environments. I thank you again for saying to those who brought it out, but it is your obligation and it is your job. There are associations of mayors, associations of cities, there are associations of municipalities, there are associations of counties. I suggest, given that some of you disagree that there are positive examples here, that at such sessions when you are at such expert meetings, it is another recommendation that you consider the question of persons with disabilities and that some of these recommendations that we have listed, as regards units of local and regional self-government, are considered at such meetings and that you will see together which you will draw conclusions to apply them in your environments, especially for those who are very often called upon to lack sufficient funding, and that there are those other cities, counties and others who are richer. I would also like to say about the state in general both the system and the legislation after seven years of office, I am still asking myself, and we are constantly asking about this, all of us who work in the office for whom are these laws written? Is it true that when an accident occurs in a way that a child is born with a rare disease, that some injury occurs to a person and that person, according to his specific features, does not get involved in any of the criteria listed by a law and that a person must, in fact, fall under certain criteria, literally in order to exercise some kind of right? I wonder who this law was made for. Because we're here because we're involved in some sort of insinuating the provisions and criteria of some laws or are these laws written to make life easier for those people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties? So I think that all legislators, all those who make decisions like you who are here and who have the possibility and the amendment and, among other things, by raising your hand for that law or by a certain regulation, should you actually question whether this goes to the benefit of that citizen or not? Because we have a situation today that one person, one family who has a member with a severe stroke, with a severe ALS, with the immobilization that the family wants to care about him and that family does not get support from the system in their home, but is pushing him to send his member to a social care facility and take care of him instead of staying in his own home where he can get the greatest amount of love, attention and support. Is it a problem, or when it happens that a child has a rare disease and that they don't know how to report it and then instead of consulting experts outside and out, if necessary, if we don't have such experts here to bring some solutions that the child declare not to be a person with disabilities or that he can't exercise any rights. In the end, I would conclude, and I would not be longer than to say that I am actually calling on all decision-makers to examine closely whether these provisions that are being amended or made are actually to the benefit of those citizens for which they are being made or to the detriment. Persons with disabilities are part of all systems, not just part of the social care system. All regulations should also be considered from this aspect because simply any system can damage and contribute to a person with disabilities. Many laws in Croatia are in one part inclusive for people with disabilities and in the other part exclusive because they are not sufficiently harmonised. This year, or very soon, 2.07., will be in the Croatian Assembly for Parliamentary Representatives, we are in organisation with the Croatian Assembly to present representatives of the recommendation or our observations regarding recommendations made by the Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on the application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Namely, in 2011, the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the work or application, alternative reports were submitted last year, which we also referred to, and this year the debate was held in Geneva on 30 and 31. So here is why I invite all of you parliamentary representatives who are both in front of the screens and who are present here to simply attend to the joint hearing between the other and the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to apply them to the benefit of those for whom we are here today, and these are persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties along with their loved ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112639	Thank you very much, Mrs. Slonjšak, we wish you further successful work, both you and your office and your associates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report next week. I will now announce the extension of the session for Wednesday 17 June with the item Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2014. Thank you very much and goodbye! Session interrupted at 13.56 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-12-0.u112640	Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2014. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that unanimously with 103 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
