ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106440	Well, one slight break, Mr. President, due to the difficult withdrawal of money from the European Union. In fact, from Croatia's entry into the EU 1.7 to 31.12.2014, the paradox must have been unrecorded, that we paid more than we withdrew the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106441	Do you have a proposal for a solution? I'll take a break right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106442	I do, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106443	All right, all right. Are there other demands like that? There isn't. I'm setting a break. Is it enough to be 45? You want to meet me at the club? Thank you very much. At 9.45 we continue the session. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I call on my colleague Cain to state the club's position on the subject they have chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106445	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives today is St. Josip Protector of the Croatian Parliament. So today, as my colleague reminded me, in 1687, Bishop Borkovic was encouraged by St. Joseph was declared the protector of the Croatian Kingdom. I have the impression we're going to need protection and St. Peter's. Joseph and all the holy ones to make things better for us in this country. Of course I'm congratulating our president's name too. ... Okay, Mr. President, I've come to you for another topic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That from Croatia's entry into the EU means from Croatia's accession to the EU to 31.12.2014. Croatia has paid Brussels 700m euros. We withdrew 722m euros during that period. So we pulled 22.4 million euros more than we paid. If, however, there is also a payment of 52m euros to the European Investment Bank, i.e. a research fund for coal and steel, it turns out that we have paid 751.5m euros and withdrew 721.9m euros or we have paid over that period of a year and a half 29.6m euros more than we have recovered. And we're getting back what's coming back to us is back to the fact that our money is coming back. What is even worse for us during this period of a year and a half was determined by Brussels. Instead of channeling money at the start of the economy, industry was exclusively used to import goods from the EU. In Istria we planned, now I'm talking about the County Assembly, 36 million kuna. With the rebalancing, this amount is reduced to 27 million kuna equivalent to about 3.5m euros and almost 50% of that money of that 3.5m euros will go to intellectual services, for wages, for travel, for daily living, for the team, etc. What is on the other hand good, and normally that I am not such a Eurosceptic that I would not advocate joining Croatia's Europe, Europe's recovery has begun to pull Croatian exporters, but I argue that it has been different to manage these funds, that these funds have been more channelled towards the economy, that we could have had an incomparably higher rate of GDP growth. I'm reading today and I'm asking myself if the correct EUROSTAT data is that the Croatian GDP has grown at 0.1% or ours when we say it grows at 0.5%? Why is that necessary? Perhaps the theme of all topics in this country is certainly not to say no more unemployment, nor GDP growth, but simply leaving young people from Croatia. In 2 years over 50 grand. And what almost surprised me is that according to the data, it seems to me that this Vienna Institute has been doing some estimates on the ground of the Republic of Croatia to prepare as many as 115 thousand people to leave these premises. Leave what's best we've got. Young people can't just survive, entrepreneurs can't survive, we're the only ones living in that state upgrade. I'm reading this testimony from a young man who says when I was working for this private and that private, I thought he was taking advantage of me. When I opened my trade or my job failed. I realized I had to pick up my kids, my wife, go somewhere in the world. It's just that young people can't wait for better times, she says, and politics don't believe too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u106446	Thank you very much. Time's up. Usually after this topic, I can say for the sake of the public we are a democratic state and a democratic society so we respect ignorance and appreciate good intentions. Thank you very much for your congratulations, colleague Cain. So we tolerate ignorance, and we respect good intentions. We are a democratic country and a democratic society. And now we're going to a plenary session on the established agenda. It is on the agenda - Defence report for 2014. Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 8. Defense laws. The material, so you received the report. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received a report from this working body at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Defence Minister Vishny Tafra. Here you go, Mrs. Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112112	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Annual Defence Report 2014 provides a comprehensive overview of the activities of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the state of development of defence capabilities, the implementation of defence preparations and the structure of defence resources and the achievement of key development projects and priorities. With this report we want to give a full picture of all our efforts, everything we have done with 4.26 billion kunas of budget appropriations approved right here in this Croatian Assembly. The share of the Croatian defence budget in GDP was 1.3% in 2014. Although this stake lags behind the desired level of GDP recommended by NATO last year at the Defence Council ahead of the NATO summit in Wales, we have committed ourselves to a vow to halt the further collapse of the defence budget. Although the economic crisis has left a mark on all social sectors, and so on and on defence, even though the development of abilities has not taken place with that dynamic and in what extent we would like to do so, I must say that the defence resort never saw it as an insurmountable obstacle, but as a challenge and in a certain sense as a chance. The economic crisis has not only brought difficulties, it has moved us to change, adapt, in the given circumstances to achieve more. How did we face these challenges? We have improved the management processes, rationalized business, and perhaps the most important ones have strengthened the professional standards of all members of the defence organization. Speaking of the conceptual-strategic level, a fundamental commitment is that the Republic of Croatia will develop armed forces that will be suited to the challenges of the long-term period ahead. A force which will be respectable with regard to the implementation of its fundamental constitutional role, but which will be able to carry part of the burdens of joint operations with allies with its willingness, training and equipment, to be available to the vulnerable population in disasters and crisis situations. The activities carried out on the basis of this general orientation were aimed at improving ability. In order to achieve this, it was necessary to launch a wide range of reforms that optimised the governance and command structure, improve and simplify processes to the defence portfolio, improve staff structure, balance the structure of the budget in favour of equipment and modernisation, conduct training and the like. During 2014, a comprehensive sub-legislative regulation was developed and adopted, resulting from the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, thus enabling faster and more effective treatment in the implementation of the tasks. A long-term development plan for the Armed Forces for the period from 2015 to 2024 has been adopted in the plan section as you know it, defining the frameworks and guidelines for the development of defence capabilities over the next ten years. In cooperation with other bodies, a draft proposal for a defence plan of the Republic of Croatia has been drawn up for adoption this year. The process of adapting defence planning to the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces with solutions and changes in NATO's defence planning system has been continued. The process of implementing the NATO crisis response system in the Republic of Croatia has been completed so that it can be established that the Republic of Croatia has established, that the ability to implement NATO crisis response measures as a measure of the alliance has been established in the Republic of Croatia, as well as measures at national level. Work has been intensified to develop implementation goals and NATO. A strategic plan of the Ministry of Defence was developed for 2015 until 2017. Behind all this are exceptional efforts, numerous processes and related activities, but more importantly this is not just a formal task, but a fundamental assumption of development. No planned, strategic, conceptual or normative document has been adopted to satisfy the form, in order to meet the obligation imposed by someone else, but solely as a result of their own analysis of judgment and commitment. Starting with a strategic review of the defence through a long-term development plan to a number of other plans and other documents of its success but also failures, we do not measure achievements or shortcomings by the fact that we have created or adopted them, but to what extent they represent an expression of our ability to meet the strategic challenges of the future and to what extent they will be translated into life. It represents and will represent the mirror of the defence resistor and society as a whole. Dear ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to draw attention to some important moments of action of the defence portfolio in 2014 in several areas. International defence cooperation as an important part of the foreign, security and defence policy of the Republic of Croatia is a strong instrument to support the improvement of defence capabilities, to strengthen political relations with the main strategic partners, to strengthen regional cooperation, to develop good neighbourly relations, and to strengthen the international position of the Republic of Croatia through a number of initiatives which I point out to the American-Adriatic Charter (A5) and through Central European Defence Cooperation. The focus of activities in the area of international defence cooperation in 2014 was primarily on developing the necessary defence capabilities through activities in the framework of Smart Defence projects, Association and Sharing, Connected Forces Initiatives, the concept of a leading nation. A long-term policy has been defined to contribute NATO response forces, participate in UN combat groups and complete NATO command structure. ...police are joined by multinational military police and thus becomes the first armed forces unit integrated into NATO's force structure. The National Airspace Control and Protection System is integrated into the NATO anti-aircraft and protection system. In March, the RS also joined the Multi-national Centre for Plane War in Slovenia, which is NATO's centre of excellence, and in 2015 we also sent the first officer to the centre of excellence of the Military Police in the Republic of Poland. It is working to establish a multinational aviation training centre in collaboration with the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and the United States on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. In the BRAD initiative, we are the leading nation to develop a strategy on the acquisition of surveillance radar for BiH, Montenegro and Macedonia. The work on NATO's AGS project has been continued to allow the development of capabilities and command and control of airspace, whose implementation is expected from 2019 to 2020. The National Displaceable Communication Module for NATO's needs is foreseen in the 1st NATO Military Connection by the end of 2017. The Croatian DCM as we like to call it will be the first unit to be included in NATO's command structure under the operational command of SACEUR or the commander-in-chief of the Allied Forces. From NATO-led ISAF operation in Afghanistan, we reorganized the number and structure of a new leading mission Resolutely supported in January 2015 and for the first time, we directed the special action unit as part of the special forces of the Republic of Poland. We have also filled the general position of the ISAF's birth certificate in Afghanistan, which, as you know after a successful mission, resulted in the appointment of Brigadier Gordana Garasic as the first Croatian general. We continued to take part in KFOR missions in Kosovo, in the EU's NAFOR mission, Somalia-Atalanta with an autonomous protagonist team with 12 members for the first time, and we were approved to participate in Operation Althea in BiH, and we participated in five more UN peace support operations. In 2014, around 140 million kuna were spent and 572 members and members of the armed forces participated. By engaging in operations and missions to support the peace of the armed forces, they develop the ability to operate in the international environment and raise the level of interoperability. In cooperation with the University of Zagreb and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, pre-graduate, four-year study programmes of military engineering and military leadership and management were established. This is the first stage in the process of broader transformation of the education system for defence purposes in accordance with the regulations governing scientific activity and higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Definition of the status and size of the reserve component and for the first time in 15 years, necessary shifts have been made in editing this area. The two pedestrian regiments of the reserve were formed with about 1700 members, and two battle regiments were evaluated in Osijek and Dubrovnik, which were responded to by about 1300 reserves, which account for about 92% of those invited. The implementation of the Equipment and Modernisation programme, although under the conditions of limited financial resources, has continued for all branches of the armed forces with a permanent intensity for the greatest promotion of domestic producers' involvement, respecting the conditions of equal competition and fostering the development of the Croatian economy. A multi-year commitment to the inclusion of Croatian economic capacities in the development of the capabilities of the armed forces resulted in the successful realization of a series of projects, equipment and modernisation from the acquisition of weapons subsystems and special equipment for combat armored vehicles. By the end of 2014, more than 2 billion and 222 million kuna were spent in a combat armored vehicle programme, and the necessary investment until its total completion is slightly less than 300 million kuna, most of which will go to the equipment of the 30mm battle station. The development, production and purchase of assault rifles and other necessary means for armed forces has continued. It should certainly be pointed out that, in addition to primary funding from the defence budget, the equipment of the armed forces is realised and the donation of our strategic partners, which is one of the indicators of the credible policy of the Republic of Croatia and the approach based on the alliance and responsibility in carrying out international obligations. I'm primarily thinking about getting non-combat vehicles from the Federal Republic of Germany, and also about a donation from the United States. The contract for the purchase of PzH2000 hoods, 12 operational, 3 spare parts, training symulator, a training agreement has been signed, we have become a full member of the NASPA Programme through which we will realize the service of modification and adaptation. The estimated value of this project is around 340 million kuna. A review of 9 tanks for 25 million kuna has been completed, and in 2015 we expect another 5 revision, which will reach a total of 14 remounted tanks for one tank company. During 2014, the equipment of the Croatian Navy was focused on the start of construction of coastal patrol ships with a shipyard of special facilities in Split, a contract was concluded for the construction of 5 coastal patrol ships, one prototype and 4 ships worth about 400 million kuna. The planned completion is 2018. We are training and we have entered a project to modernise the Enhanded Peregrine radar system worth about 100 million kunas whose return of 80 million kuna is expected from the Coalition Support Fund. We have also launched equipment-related activities with two autonomous underwater vehicles from the US donation. A project to install autonomous identification system on two rocket cannons has also been completed, thus increasing the safety of navigation. The crown of the remont in the Croatian Navy is the beginning of the remounting of the RBS-15 rockets whose successful launch after 1994 you had the opportunity to see which the Croatian Navy retains the ability to fight at sea. In 2014, Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft equipment activities focused on capital repair and upgrade of 12 MiG fighter aircraft, the acquisition of an EA Tractor fire-fighting aircraft. 12 planes from the remont were delivered to the Republic of Croatia and today 11 of these planes are in use. By the end of this month, we expect the 12th to be in use with the daily level of their capacity of 7 to 8 planes a day being able to carry out their tasks. Despite the difficulties in the implementation of the project, there were no interruptions in the implementation of assigned airspace surveillance tasks. Six MI-8 helicopters have also been remounted for 85 million kuna and six more helicopters are under way. A modified FPS-517 radar system with Croatian air navigation control was renovated and modified. As far as real estate is concerned, the Department of Defense owns about 4000 246 properties. It was made after a list of existing documentation and a real, physical list of apartments, 2,000 527, 252 business spaces, 1238 garages and 1659 garages that have been in the company HVIDRA since 1992. So far we have handed over 350 unspective properties and, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we will hand over to the State Property Management Office about 250 business premises, 3,000 garages and garages. The deadline for this is June 30th of this year and we are in the surrender process where the Office of State Property Management is helping us with its professional associates in the process. Also, the time limit for the purchase of apartments for the users found in the apartments was extended until 30 June of this year. As for investment in military buildings in 2014 we finished 4 accommodation facilities in the military Predrag Matanović in Petrinja. There are 10 warehouses built for the Doljans' deadly fighting assets worth 30 million kunas. The laundry for fighting armored vehicles in Petrinja worth 4 million kuna has been completed. The first phase of the further construction of Petrinja worth more than 3 million kuna was continued and replacement infrastructure was continued at the Pleso Air Force Base and construction of a facility for so-called. MIG-21 on-call double whose funding is from the Airport of Pleso. We have also reconstructed facilities at the Croatian Military University worth 16 million kuna, facilities of the Ministry of Defence for 6.2 million kuna. The Agreement on Cooperation with the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund of March 2014 with the aim of raising energy efficiency in the reconstruction of existing buildings for 6 years, the Fund is committed to participating with 41 million kuna. 8.7 million kunas were withdrawn in 2014 and 7 million kunas are expected this year. A new regulation on military construction has also been adopted to facilitate interventions within the military space and we have also started building logistics buildings on the Slunj polygon for the purpose of accepting hoods. During 2014 Armed forces were also engaged in situations where civil abilities were not sufficient for the implementation and effective protection and rescue of people and material goods. This confirmed the Armed Forces as a force ready to carry out the tasks of supporting civilian institutions. This Decision shall Armed forces have provided civilian institutions with 8,000 349 different forms of support. During 2014, we continued the trend of improving the educational structure of staff, for example, on 1 January 2012. 87% of the officers had a satisfactory educational level while to date it is more than 96%. As for the staff, we've rejuvenated 940 soldiers, 80 officers and 5 doctors. 2580 people have been promoted, and according to the system's detachment plan, 1414 people have emerged and 288 other people have been promoted. Voluntary military training was completed by a 732 voluntary handbook. As far as gender equality is concerned in the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on the Protection of Military Dignity shall act. The share of women in the active military group reached a target of 10% and 10.34%, respectively. We have a 15.66% officer, officer 11.27 and soldier 5.71. It will continue with projects aimed at attracting and retaining qualified and high-quality and motivated personnel with further promotion of the battle call. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that despite the functioning of the circumstances of the limited defence budget in all functional areas, the defence sector in 2014 achieved positive shifts and the capabilities of the Armed Forces were further improved. The intensive policy continues to contribute to the construction of a stable and secure international environment through participation in operations and missions to support peace, international defence cooperation activities and the implementation of measures, building and trust and security. Croatia's consistent policy towards allies and partners and according to international obligations is recognised and appreciated. Armed forces carried out all required tasks under the Constitution of defined missions, of tasks that strengthen defence capacities and in peacetime fulfils the defence mission of the Republic of Croatia and of the Allies. Tasks in the context of participation in the construction of a stable and secure international environment to provide different forms of support to the country's civilian institutions and population. With a very strong and successful contribution to support services for the protection and rescue and population in floods at risk of armed forces, they reaffirmed their general usefulness. The rules that we have during these three and a half years of water action, above all, are transparency and openness, rationality and efficiency, and open cooperation with all who can and must be supportive, but also control and control. The time ahead presents a number of challenges, from the breach of the security of the Euro-Atlantic area at the eastern borders due to the escalation of the crisis and war in Ukraine, has conditioned a solidarity of involvement in the implementation of crisis response measures and is in preparation for the implementation of the Alliance's preparedness plan. Migrations from crisis hotspots around the Mediterranean and the humanitarian crisis ahead of the Italian coasts are asking us to join the countries carrying out the joint humanitarian operation Triton and we will do so by sending the Croatian Navy ship Andrija Mohorovic with 50 members of the Armed Forces and 8 members of the Ministry of the Interior, to maintain the stability of defence financing and to gradually achieve a greater share of equipment and modernisation funds. I must conclude here that in a situation where our defence budget at the annual level was almost a billion kuna less in 2012 we managed to equip and modernise the Armed Forces to invest around 2 billion and 400 million kuna and continue intensive training. Before us is the implementation of the long-term development plan as the first long-term plan adopted under the conditions of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Alliance and the European Union, and this fact is an important framework of efforts to position the defence function in relation to modern security architecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112113	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica. First replica and respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112114	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The report is normally well drawn up, I have no objections to it, but I cannot say when it comes to the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia it is not on the agenda of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, but why not say that the situation in the Croatian Air Force does not meet even the minimum standards regarding the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. This is not a cry, but a request from both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including here colleagues and colleagues. We can't as Parliamentarians chosen by the Croatian peoples with their hands bowed down and watch, watch over this problem. We need to allocate more funds for the Croatian Armed Forces in the budget, especially for this segment when it comes to Croatian Air Force. I will not talk about the remonting of MiG modernized MiGs in Ukraine, Romania, but it is obvious, it is more visible, it is better said that MiG is ready for history and that Croatia as a member of the NATO Alliance must seek better solutions when it comes to the system and safeguarding the airspace of the Republic of Croatia. And I am pleased to see that the Croatian soldier is wearing a Croatian uniform, produced in Croatia, Croatian helmet, Croatian machine room and that the Ministry of Equipment of the Croatian Army is connected to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and mainly on major projects as regards the fighting armored vehicle of Patria, tank and remont of these same...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112115	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Vishny Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112116	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative Djurdjevic, I cannot agree that the situation in the Croatian Air Force does not meet even the slightest standards. Regardless of the difficulties we had in financing the defense system we succeeded in means what our predecessors didn't, which means we extended the duration and remounted the MiG 21st and thus kept our ability, our own ability to protect the airspace. That this is not the final solution I absolutely agree with you and that is why this is why the Defence Council has decided that by the end of 2016 a decision must be made which will be further with the combat air force. Therefore, we are these days in gathering all the offers that exist from world manufacturers means fighter planes to see what it is and whether there is something that is affordable within the future budgets for the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces. All of what you said could also be read in the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces in which the deadlines are specified and at what time the decision must be made on what will be with the Croatian Air Force. What we are intensively doing, which means that our people are being trained, and that the situation as bad as you say in the Croatian Air Force is not saying the fact that our officers and officers working in the Croatian Air Force are extremely qualified. Because if it weren't for the Ottoman Armed Forces, we have other offers from other countries coming to the Republic of Croatia to train in law in the segment, meaning Croatian Air Force. I think it's an honor for all of us to be able to provide others with a favor, from this service even to earn and improve the standard of our officers and officers and also the same. to show that we're capable of doing it. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112117	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112118	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Reading this report, respected deputy ministers, two things have now fallen into my eyes. First is the professional development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And it gets the impression that a relatively large number of people are enrolled according to the cadet program, compared to the number of people who finished it. And as far as I can see in 2014, 39 cadets were completed according to the previous model of cadet education, of which 6 women and 33 men. It would be good to know how many students the programme cadet should have completed in the study in 2014 given the number of enrolled and what is actually happening to those students of the cadet programme who fail to complete the study year, or those who repeat the study year. And in fact, whether, because of the public, it would be important to know how many students are enrolled in the Programme of Cadet, how many have successfully completed and how many have stopped studying and how many more have been educated and perhaps broken down into colleges where they were educated. And something else, given the lack of funds you've been talking about, is a difficult economic situation. On page 97 you have property and legal affairs and administrative procedures in 2014. You say working disputes account for 29% while other types of cases and disputes are referred to 21%. More than half, 51% of the cases in the field of labour disputes relate to the demand of employees, active military personnel to pay the wage difference from the basics of overtime, work in tourus, duty, vacation differences. How did this happen and what financial amount was it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112119	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Vishny Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112120	Dear Mr. Parliamentarian Babić, you've seen well, means that professional development of active military personnel among other things took place under the Kadet Programme. It is a programme of cadets that was created long before the present time, i.e. before the arrival of this government and according to this Programme, the Department of Defence at the civil colleges in the Programme of cadet was enrolling, meaning people who wanted to join the programme. What we noticed, and you noticed, means that this program in the way it was designed was not good enough because it proved that students who study under this programme were primarily left to civilian colleges, and only of us are given support in the form of assistance, housing, scholarships and so forth. That's why I can't tell you the data here for every year of passing, but I can deliver it to you by individual colleges the way they were enrolled when they finished. We had situations, so if someone for legitimate reasons lost a student year allowed him to continue, means study, and all those who failed to complete the program in the time planned for completion interrupted it and were obliged to compensate the Ministry of Defence for the costs caused by this study. It is precisely because we have noticed that the Kadet Programme is as it is without an element relating to the Armed Forces, that is one year in which within the four-year study the cadet itself will be present in the Armed Forces and implement certain programmes that are exclusively specialised for the Armed Forces we have entered, meaning this joint formation of military studies for the first time in the Republic of Croatia and in collaboration with the University of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112121	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports, their views? No, I don't. We're going into debate. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of independent leftists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak. Comrade Novak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112122	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. As my predecessor said in his replica, this is a common quality and well-designed report, and on this issue we can only and, according to the registered speakers, it will probably be similar to that of the last one that we all agree more or less that the report is well done and then we point to some irregularities, or rather I would call it ideas, suggestions that should be changed. In your opening statement, you said that in these three and a half years, one of the basic principles that you are handling is transparency. And I can generally agree with that, probably a good example. But by reading this report and reading the Internet, I have come to a bit of a misunderstanding with myself, whether this is the most transparent way of getting the German hoodies you've ever mentioned. This report says that 12 hoodies are modern-day single artillery weapons. But we can find data that these hoodies are 10 and over, that 12 plus 3 and 12 are supposed to be trained, and 3 are like spare parts and similar things to train these remaining 12. Well, then it will be delivered in 2015 and 2016 if I'm not mistaken. By 2018 we will pay 340 million kunas, etc., etc. And then we can find out on the Internet that, I don't know if it's true, but I'd like you to deny me if it isn't, that without any contests or any tests, we've got these hoodies that are currently dysfunctional and there's yet to be their training with a service where we're going to use NATO resources. It is said of their technical characteristics that do not exactly go on their hands, such as the weight that is excessive and, say, the Croatian Army does not have, it does not have, say, pontoon bridges that bear that weight. And then it's on the Internet that it's about hoods that have become excess in the German armed forces because of the reorganization and reduction of the number of artillery units, but also because of their dysfunction, since that weight, let's say the German military industry is going with a drastic reduction in the weight of these vehicles, to lower them to below 30 tons. I don't know if it doesn't matter. It is also said that in addition to no competition that the final price will be around 3.5m euros, or around $4m per piece. Well, then we can find information that these new hoodies are $4.5 million apiece. So, only half a million dollars apiece. It seems to me to me that this figure is somehow a little too small a savings, and even when we consider that it's not working, it's just a matter of training, that their age is over 10 years old and that it's used. Let's just say you're going to answer me that's okay, but it reminds me terribly of the case and let's call it an affair about getting Patria's vehicle. Was there corruption there, was there no corruption. Well, then mentioning the reconstruction of MiG's planes. So just to remind you that if I'm not mistaken somewhere at the beginning of this government's term, there was a little bit later a lot of talk about getting into the donation of some 18 hoodies, but that story just stopped. I don't know if this job failed in the meantime, or was it just to make this part of the deal happen? You also mentioned targeted, or recommended 2% of GDP allocations for the Armed Forces, so regarding this case of haubic procurement, I have to remind the same data that is easily checked on the internet by the most separate country, the highest percentage of GDP for the Armed Forces, Greece 3%. But it's interesting that they were under pressure to reduce that separation in, say, 2010 by only 0.2% while at the same time going with a reduction in social benefits of 9%. It is also interesting that Germany will have the biggest profit from this powerful Greek weapon. This same German who sells hoodies to us, this same German who conducts and is in charge of negotiations with Greece that tells them that they have to bang for so many and so many social rights, for as many and so many pensions, and then somehow they can't take away the impression that Europe and that EU, as much as I was an advocate of entering it, is not exactly a country where everyone will have equal opportunities, equal opportunities, and we will be equal. When I look at that part, then I have to admit that I'm glad we have 1.3% of GDP because there's less room to fill the conditionally spoken German budget. It turns out that not only us but all these countries in crisis, it's very interesting when you look at the data that countries are the biggest buyers of German weapons, Greece, Portugal and us. I mean, not in quantity, but that's where we're pushing now. Why? I don't know, but a lot of texts you can find that talk about exactly that. And I have to admit, they're causing a skepticism with me if that's exactly how it has to be. As for the personnel, you have now presented in the opening section information on the rejuvenation of personnel and that is truly commendable, but I will repeat that problem that we are repeating here already related to those three contracts. After the third contract, the third contract simply brings out the third contract, after which they do not have the possibility, or which is not foreseen further if they have not entered the system of progress. I think we should, however, be talking about people who are, let's say, 35 years old and not really let them be on our own, that's still where she was educated and invested in the Republic of Croatia. I also get, I can't claim the accuracy of this data, but I get it by e-mail, in 2007, an officer or an officer in the Armed Forces with medium professional training and about 20 years of work experience had a receipt or salary of 3350 kuna, and in 2015, 3700. Meanwhile, their regression, the Christmas card, the base for the jubilee prize, travel costs reduced by 25 to 30% and the increase in life costs during that period must have been significant. It also states that they must pay the costs of transport even though they are on the road, that it is an old story that officers and officers and military officers travel by the same bus, so the army must pay, officers and officers have conditionally said free transportation. They're warning me about the accommodations. I must admit that this is the first time I've encountered this, that in the rooms or in the dormitory, it's in an extremely small square simply piled up a lot of armies. Let's say here I read somewhere that after 40 soldiers after some gym, exercises have 80 liters at their disposal, I think it's clear to everyone that it's simply impossible to cover each other. Payment or extras for lunches, a little weird but it says here that the military is forced to pay an extra on their meals even at a time when they don't want those meals. I don't know, I can't argue that this is true since this sounds rather strange to me, but it turns out that if he leaves that day, well I see by the gesture that the information turns out to be a little questionable, but it says that the soldiers who are under contract are obliged to accept a meal when they leave for breakfast or dinner have to pay extra. All in all the report which report is what I said at the beginning of me as well as this one done so far, but the part about the transparency and procurement of these hoods and cannot be taken away from the impression that we are simply predetermined in this part of the EU that we need to allocate certain funds and finance it by justifying NATO standards to finance the industry of precisely those countries that dictate EU rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112123	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have three replicas. The first replica is a respected colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112124	Dear counterpart Novak, in one part of your debate on EU delusions, I think they are partly disappointed together. You said you felt when you voted to join the EU that it was an association where countries would be equal opportunities, equal opportunities and equal rules. It is not so and it has long been known that it is not and we are increasingly convinced that the EU is actually a set of countries where larger ones have greater rights and want to make profit at the expense of others. The EU is calmly watching Germans save their money in Greece. That's obvious. Greece is not being saved and Greece is not being pressured to make order because Greece sank the moment the EU imposed the rules. Since then, Greece has been sinking deeper and deeper. Another thing that is, remember, and we have to remember every day the workers of the Split Ironworks, or Adria Steel, who owns the Germans who haven't paid their wages for months and pull us by the ear when we're wrong somewhere. They acted as bosses in Croatia but do not export their rules to other countries where they act as bosses. Therefore, we will be equal in the EU, and when it comes to what you have been saying about the supply of weapons, it is a great error. What is wrong with them will trick us and we as obedients, which will normally always be denied from the top, executed. Therefore, the EU is not an association of equal countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112125	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112126	Thank you very much. So watch as I prepare for this debate, I find a text on the Internet that Greece has bought the biggest crisis from Germany's military equipment for 2 billion euros, among other things, and two old non-functioning submarines. Germany reportedly also during these negotiations conditioned financial assistance to Greece by signing a contract to buy additional equipment just from Germany. In the German Bundestag, people are asking their deputies to ask Mrs. Merkel to react because France has taken over part of their military market in Greece. I mean, honestly, it's ringing the alarm, and I don't have the right to keep it quiet. I'm not saying that we're on the same track but I understand your reaction and this gesture, but the fact is that just getting 12 untrained hoodies plus 3 who are actually cashed in on me actually works just like that. We have to buy what's extra for them, they get rid of it, they get something else for themselves, and we have to invest in it. And in that case, if this information is correct about the amount, then this is really the job of the century. If someone bought something used 10 years old, spent at this price compared to the price of getting a new one, then everything is just not transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112127	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, when you spoke about Greece, you said among other things that you were glad that Croatia had an isolation to defend only 1.3%, it is even slightly less than 1.3% in 2014 and I think it is the biggest problem of the armed forces. And that we should all be glad if we were at the level of those recommended 2% of the recommendations within the NATO alliance, because in that case the state budget would be at least 40 billion kunas already than now the armed forces would have a budget of about 7 or even 8 billion kuna. And the situation in the armed forces would be very different than it is today, so these things would not happen that you spoke of as cutting the rights that were previously given to Croatian soldiers, which now do not have or have these rights reduced. And in the state budget, of course, there would be a lot more money for the social, etc. So, Croatia's goal in the future should certainly be to get closer to that 2% separation and because of the modernisation of the armed forces and because of the future of the armed forces, because if such a trend of constant reduction of funds for the armed forces continues, I am afraid that in a few years these reports will not even be in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112129	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112130	My colleague, Ivić, was well aware of what part of the reduction I mentioned, or 1.3% of GDP when I spoke about Greece, and it was ironic, and it was related to their forcing Greece to sign some additional military equipment contracts that they were subject to financial assistance from Greece. In that context, I was talking about that reduction. It wasn't meant to be that I didn't know how to eliminate the armed forces, that there was something drastic to cut but that was pure irony about this ultimatum that is towards Greece, which I'm afraid, although it's not spoken for in the same way, not yet to the same extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112131	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112132	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it seems to me that it went a little far when it comes to this topic, and I think you've mixed up some institutions and frameworks in which Croatia works. Namely, everything is related to the defence budget and Croatia's weapons is tied exclusively to the NATO alliance. So it's not about EU membership, and EU membership, we're really equal here with the rest of us according to all the agreements. As much as we're using our situation, it's a second reading. How much we use funds, how much we're capable of withdrawing funds, etc. That's another question. However, the issue of defence, the issue of security of the topic on the agenda today, is a matter that is exclusively related to our internal opportunities, but of course also to NATO membership. In this regard, I would not even these two frameworks, although they are related both to the EU and NATO alliances normally have links, it is a question of sharing certain values, common values, etc. However, the issue of defence and arms financing is related to NATO's alliance and our obligations stem first and foremost from the NATO treaty. So it has nothing to do with the EU, nor does anyone from the EU ask us to have so much of a defence item in our budget, etc. So these two things aren't as directly tied up as you might have suggested or wanted to suggest. In any case, we are equal regardless of the fact that there are old member states in the EU that have influence both outside the EU and their impact on the foundations of the past and the foundations of the economic power, and in this sense we can discuss that we may not be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112133	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112134	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Matusic, I didn't even say it was connected, but it's also not separate. And when I took that example, I was just saying it because of a situation that happened to another country, but unfortunately, it's very often mentioned with us whether the scenario is the same, whether we end up on the same path, whether we're going to be in the same position. And just to illustrate that part more vividly, I was talking about their example, or ultimatum, that they experienced. And as far as NATO standards are concerned, if a country is dealing with weapons, tools, it doesn't matter and gives it to another country that is also in the NATO Pact, NATO Alliance, so then we should all be not to say unified, that would be ideal, but that's impossible. And then there's no question that we're buying something that's old enough to say, maybe it's out of date, but it's discriminatory if it's 12 hoodies that are out of function, that have yet to be trained, and that they're still so expensively paid. Because if this information is correct, then it's that the purchase is a new 4.5 and these are four. Then it's really overpaid in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112135	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112136	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, this data he spoke of just before my predecessor and I was intrigued, so now I've listed something and now I see really that a member of the European Union has sold Greek weapons worth a billion euros. And that Greece has 1600 tanks, four times as much as Germany. France sold them 800m euros in planes. And someone's obviously making a false panic so I don't know how to increase those weapons purchases. It's interesting when we talk about getting weapons that 318 billion dollars of equipment or 51% more than in 2002 was sold worldwide in 2011. Is there some corruption about it any other time? However, not counting I will say to the unemployed, completed, powerless, socially endangered greatest burden of the crisis from the state institutions to themselves during this crisis period has just taken over the Ministry of Defence. Defence or the army we follow or finance with 1.3% of gross social product. So never less in history or in the new history of the Republic of Croatia has money gone to the military. Last year's budget amounted to 4 billion 170 million kuna. So you can't finance everything you need, which we would like with those 4 billion and 170 million kunas. And what's done at the Department of Defense, I'd say it's almost bordering on miracles under quotes. The security of the world clearly as it is observed in this report is getting worse. Not in Croatia, that's what makes us happy, I mean it doesn't cheer us either, but that's what we certainly welcome, in Croatia security is high-level. So here, among other things, is the war in Ukraine in Isil, the exodus from Africa, I don't know, etc., etc. Here is the report on Ukraine, the elements of civil war and aggression. But what I certainly want to believe is that some war between the East, the West, won't be about what the Pope recently talked about, some third world war, I don't recognize such an outline and give God to anyone, never again war. On page 12, we are talking about the priorities of the international defence security policy area to express myself in this way the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and we are talking about the development of the necessary defence, i.e. the ability to respond to crises, notably the implementation of NATO's objectives of capacity, security, efficiency of members of the Armed Forces in missions and peace support operations. Then in achieving a high degree of interoperability and active action within NATO and the European Union, strengthening relations with the main strategic allies. It's America, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Poland, etc. I am equally convinced that there should be no more war in the Balkans either. Can't I, I don't know, Isil or some kind of terrorism destabilize these premises? All defence systems, I would say the Republic of Croatia, must in some ways be directed towards strengthening the stability of our country. Croatia will participate in the German group of states. We see in the report after the bloody Second World War, after the defeat of Germany, reparation of war damage, exodus, Croatia can see with Germany, so one day they will be able to work with their neighbours. The borders will be respected, the countries will be respected, the territorial recommendations we must resolve. No one will attack anyone under allegations, threaten, and that is important if for nothing else and then for help in the trouble of neighbors when some of the countries or some of us are hit by some of the elemental disasters. Finally, it was at work last year during those major floods when Croatia was hit, but parts of the Armed Forces came to help both the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it does regularly when a fire occurs in the neighborhood. So the policy of good neighbouring alpha, omega of life, peace in these spaces, in one word of prosperity. Otherwise, I don't know, I guess we'll either move hundreds of thousands more people out of this country that I was talking about this morning. The countries are just because of the war in a period of aggressive war, forced war, thrown deep back, and we need to see for decades ourselves to get back to where we're headed. Today, Croatian Armed Forces see more work outside Croatia than in Croatia, so to speak. Right, we have to be honest, admit that others have helped us without America or the United States or the war would not have ended, nor would the process against the former prime minister or the FIFA be conducted, we understand that. That's Germany, Italy, France. But what's interesting, perhaps the key to this report, is on page 112 where these contingents, operations, crisis responses and humanitarian operations are spoken of in 2014. So it's said that the 22nd Contingent in Afghanistan had 190 people, then this 23rd. 157, we're 24 now, so 90, or I don't know exactly who we are, but that's the number down to 91, and it's safe to think that we're getting away with it, I'm going to say quite frankly, out of that failed mission. The Croatian Armed Forces usually participate in India, Pakistan with 14 military personnel, in the Western Sahara with 10, Cyprus with 3, Lebanon with 2, Liberia with 2, Somalia with 18, Kosovo 22, now 18 and so on. We see 572 people here in total. So we can say that our soldiers are very much represented outside the country, and I am convinced that they are among the best in all these missions. The target of 2% of GDP for the military is unrealistic, it's impossible, 7 billion kunas secure, single out without jeopardizing I dare say all other components of society. On 31.12.2014 there were 18135 military personnel in the Armed Forces, i.e. 15407 military personnel and 2728 employees. That's one, I'm sure, an appropriate number and more than that our Armed Forces should not have soldiers or personnel. It's interesting what Mrs. Deputy Minister was talking about in '14. 940 soldiers and sailors and 80 officers received, of which 5 doctors. It is also interesting to speak under quotes about this gender representation but now it should be found somewhere that it is simply structured within the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia where women are not neglected. Military equipment or industry. Croatia has in some segments, in some parts a top production to express myself as a weapon. For example. This HS from Karlovac, they are ma, I dare say the leading company, not in Croatia, but in Croatia, when we look at everything they do no one actually does. They're certainly one of the world's leading companies in this area when it comes to light weapons, not to say they're literally a miracle. And what they produce, they export, it's really fascinating, and perhaps, on their example, they should learn and encourage these good examples. What they do no one actually does, the way they're organized, I guess nobody's organized. I would say from Austria down to Turkey they have more robots than all those countries from Austria to Turkey. êĐuro Đaković′′ armored vehicles, top-of-the-line craftsmanship, I hope that unlike Janša in Croatia no one has received bribes, that it does not pass here, etc. Page 42, here is spoken in Slavonski Brod means special vehicles ′′Đaković′′ 126 base vehicles, models, Patria and so on. Air Force 45, on the basis of the conclusion of the Military Technical Council of the Ministry of Defence of November 2012 on the retention of MiG 21 aircraft in use in the first half of '13. The procurement procedure was carried out, and on 9 July, '13. A contract was concluded with the Ukrainian company with which the purchase, refurbishment and upgrade of five aircraft were contracted. By the end of '14. 12 planes were refurbished, delivered to Croatia, 7 of which were received or handed over to the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft for operational use, while the remaining 5 were in the process of joining the Ministry of Defence. That we have problems, but with 1.3% of the allocation of GDP for the need of the Croatian Army or the Ministry of Defence, we will not resolve the problem. Real estate, maybe some of this could be directed towards the D.O.D. What the military doesn't need should be left to the market. If that market simply cannot be paid, or if it is not interested in trying to think about giving in to civil authorities. That's where I mean local self-government. Page 49. Yes, we now see 4246 military properties with apartments, garages, office premises owned by the Department of Defense. In 2014, 107 apartments were sold for about 11600, meaning thousands of kuna, one apartment in the equivalent of 100 thousand kuna. And once again for the end of 4 million 170, pardon 4 billion 170 million kuna for wages, material expenditure if I'm not mistaken goes somewhere around 3.9 billion kuna. We're left with this thing, and with these, say, fifty million euros, there's good material costs, etc. In those 3.9 billion, we just can't do more than what we have. Everything is tense and the question is whether the system can be maintained if the failures are increased. Once again, I'm going to say that we should simply apostrophe, we don't have to brag, but we have to admit that the military budget from year to year is getting smaller and the system continues to operate and exist. Once again with the 1.3% exemption of gross social product for the military or the Ministry of Defence we cannot have what we simply want, but it has never been less isolated and never likely the Armed Forces without counting the wartime I'm talking about the wartime in one crisis period have not been a greater burden of stabilising opportunities in the country taken over than it is today. And I'm going to point out one more time, that maybe all of these social entities in this country, of all the ministries, is the greatest burden of the crisis when somehow we look at it and we're following ourselves, the Ministry of Defense has just taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112137	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112138	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Cain, you were talking about that flood disaster that happened and in part of that you praised the Armed Forces which, of course, helped in these areas and would be said to be expected, of course, to be commended. But speaking of commendation, it's time to say the same for the fire department for their immeasurable contribution. Here in the county where the same floods, the fires that made the hive-crossing, made great efforts and did not need to engage, so the military did, but did, indeed, make an immeasurable contribution. But look, I'm holding that fire doesn't experience or strengthen the way it should be strengthened. If we're talking about funds, too, for financing those public fire departments, I think they're down from 1.3 to 1%. That's one thing. And those who do not have these public-fire units have voluntary fire-fighting societies which in this northwestern part of Croatia are very strong, this is a way of life and gives an immeasurable contribution in all life in every environment. And in that part of course units of local self-government encounter great problems financing these, and people have, will there, of course they need both equipment and techniques. And look now there's the Civil Protection Act that was in the first reading, too, and it's not the right way to see this volunteer fire. It can be the bearer, by all means. Now the local self-government units are in some way imposing, and now we're going to add to you that you both have to do this and do it and we already have it. So, you don't need to spoil, fix what's not broken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112139	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112140	And I mean commendation? Clearly, praises and firemen, praise for civil protection, commendation to doctors, commendation to the Red Cross, all those who participated in the restoration of the signs of flooded space. If I'm not mistaken, we've secured a billion in the RH budget or rather rebalancing. We, it's citizens' money to understand each other. We have secured one billion kunas so that these spaces can be put into operation as soon as possible so that people can return, that the fields will start working again, and that the economy will be restarted so that it will not simply be dead. So, all the components of this society were singled out, I would say as much as I could at that point. But I particularly wanted to highlight the engagement of the Armed Forces at the time when perhaps even greater disasters were being made by the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that moment, the Republic of Croatia, this is now about the political will to find strength and opportunities to help our neighbours in trouble. And that is what needs to be noticed and I think that such a policy should also be guided in future, regardless of party colors, and what is good to welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112141	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Cain, you've covered everything in your debate, but I think there's something you've forgotten. In addition to the 2014 defence report, it writes about how many military apartments have been sold and what resources have been provided. However, we have not heard or seen or read in the report presented by Mrs Tafra or in your discussion what happened to the combat funds sold to Arab countries or I do not know to whom, but to what extent, and to what extent? What's the state of weaponry in our reserve, do we even have more weapons to fill in the reserve at the given time? Will it not happen like in the '90s when the weapons... drove away and left the Croatian people disarmed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is definitely on how many occasions is it sold to countries and what countries? These are questions that this Parliament must discuss and hear what resources have been made and what the state of our reserve is, with which it will be armed, given that these funds, in my knowledge, have been declared unspective. It is good to get rid of everything that is inoperable, it is only a question of which border and whether it has not crossed the limits of those needs that Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112143	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112144	Well, Croatia is, above all, a safe country, among other things, thanks to the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence as a whole, to be even more precise. When we talk about these military apartments here I was just quoting the data, it seems to me that it was coming somewhere around 11 and something million kuna and that 107 apartments were sold. So, the average price of one apartment I guess 50, 60 squares about 100,000 kuna. Someone will say a little, I say appropriate, consistent with receipts, salaries, military staff opportunities. When we talk about this reservation, when we talk about this equipment, and first of all, what it was used for was sold, what you noticed was unspective. And I don't want to defend anyone here right now, but I guess anyone at the Defense Minister's post would do the same thing. Well, it's better to sell that equipment, channel the funds we get for some other needs than to have warehouses blow up, and it wasn't such a rare case on the ground of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112145	Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112146	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Cain, in your debate, you said that the two percent separation for the purpose of defence is an impossible mission. I agree with you, at this point it's a truly impossible mission. But this should be the long-term goal of the Republic of Croatia. Not only because it is recommended within the NATO alliance, but because of the country's security. And you don't need to see investment in defense exclusively as a cost. It's not a cost, it's an investment in security and we all know that security doesn't have a price. I agree with you and with what you said was that the greatest burden of the crisis might actually have been filed by the Ministry of Defense. Because the Department of Defense is the most cut-off asset. That's almost 20% compared to the 2011 budget. And it's still not going to work because it's going to be a matter of system functioning. The system is now tense and the question is, how long can it work like this? And because of that in the defense perspective, security will have to be allocated more money, whether we want to admit it or not. And it is in the extreme line and a chance for the Croatian military industry. More money in the state defence budget means that the Croatian military industry will benefit from it too and will have the opportunity to further develop and potential expansion into foreign markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112147	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112148	Yes, I think we fully agree that at this point we would like to admit it to ourselves or not to single out or to come to an isolation of 2% of GDP for the needs of the Armed Forces that is an impossible mission. That would be to secure about 7 billion kunas somewhere. Twice as much as we're allotting for the Armed Forces at this point. Our 2014 budget plan was 4 billion and 265 million kuna, the execution of 4 billion 170 million kuna. It's reduced by almost 100 million kuna. What the people who run the Armed Forces, first of all in the Chief Staff, clear to the Ministry, they simply do with these means, I dare say in a system that counts over 18.5 thousand people almost miraculously. I agree with you when you say that the system is overcrowded or overstretched. It won't be possible for a long time if we want to stabilize, I'd say, first of all, this technique to remain on these 1.3%, and that would be the easiest way to achieve this if we could target the most significant resources towards that manufacturing part that produces that military equipment. I just apostrophe... It seems to me from Karlovac, the ones that we've been through, we've seen what it looks like we can only say such factories I'm sure from Austria what I know down to Istanbul, Carigrace just doesn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It just needs to be seen, it just needs to be experienced. What do you say those biggest gun exporters are, say, on the US market since that state existed? One word of hat down.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112149	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic has a replica. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. Thank you very much. We continue the debate by the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative of Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112150	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. In 2014, it was a globally insecure year, along with many other hidden or spontaneously active hotspots, two new intensive areas of Ukraine's uncertainty and ISIL's area of action contributed. In Ukraine, the crisis has turned into an armed conflict and ISIL's action has caused long-term destabilisation not only locally, but globally. If we add to this the economic crisis and international terrorist threats of general security in 2014 have certainly been worsened compared to the previous period. The burden of NATO and EU security systems thus increased Croatia, regardless of the fact that the immediate environment of the Republic of Croatia has maintained the characteristics of relative stability. Despite all this, two key words that can clearly describe Croatia's defence system in 2014 are arrangements and transparency. Continuing defence reform has improved system arrangements throughout 2014. Following the new Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, 24 sublaws were adopted, a new long-term development plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2015 to 2024, which defined the frameworks and guidelines for the development of defence capabilities in the next ten-year period, has been developed a draft proposal for a defence plan for the Republic of Croatia whose adoption is scheduled this year, a plan for NATO implementation of the objectives of capacity has been implemented. Thus, the 2014 Defence Report contains a completely new complement to the activities related to the adoption and launch of the implementation of the Armed Forces DPR from 2015 to 2024. The DPR is proposed on the basis of a deep and extensive analysis and public debate, respecting budgetary constraints, so it can be said that it really stands on a real basis. Regardless of the crisis, the priorities are clear, the defence is important and the armed forces in the more developed democracy have a prominent position and reputation. Such status contributes to the preservation of professionalism with high training, defined internal relations and equipment. All this involves the long-term development plan adopted in 2014. The current structure and quality of the staff are strategically arranged by the separation of personnel compared to the situation in the Armed Forces at the end of 2013 at the end of 2014 the number of persons employed by the military was reduced by 297 persons, but also by the reception of the new 940 soldiers and 80 officers of 5 doctors. This concerned the transparency of procedures, the provision of equal opportunities, gender equality, clear criteria and measurable achievements. A major positive step in raising the quality of staff is the establishment of a pre-graduate four-year study of military engineering and military leadership and management in cooperation with the University of Zagreb and the Ministry of Education. The total number of active compositions on 31.12.2014 were 18 135 persons, i.e. 134 and one general Gordana Garasic. In 2014 a temporary but since 28 May this year served the first woman with a general rank in Croatia. The equipment and modernisation of 2014 was implemented under the conditions of limited financial resources already covered by the budget rebalancing today. The implementation of the equipment and modernisation programme was continued according to the redefined priorities for all branches of the Armed Forces with permanent intensity for the greater stimulation of the domestic producers involved. Special attention is given to the handling of the property situation. There were significantly higher activities during 2014 in training activities and exercises compared to the past period. Croatian Armed Forces also contributed to European and world security during 2014 by participating in two NATO ISAF operations in Afghanistan and KFOR in Kosovo, the EU's NAFOR operation Somalia, Atalanta and five UN peacekeeping support operations involving a total of 572 members. At the same time, they supported civil institutions by engaging in a number of large fire-fighting activities, emergency medical air transport, transport of transplant authorities, search and rescue on land and islands, prevention and removal of the effects of weather accidents where, in any event, aid in threatened areas of flood must be highlighted. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have been actively involved in helping the affected area since the first day, so at three locations in Gunja and two in Drenovci, five moving kitchens have been deployed in which 65 618 meals have been prepared and distributed for the civilian population. Two transport helicopters spent 76 flights of more than 41 hours, carrying around 200 tonnes of humanitarian cargo. The army also built a bridge in the Rachinovs. The listed activities are a classic example of the use of the Armed Forces in peace. Transparency is no longer just a one-time passing feature of the defense system, but we can talk about a lasting value. The Republic of Croatia has made significant steps to increase the transparency of public procurement in the defence sector, primarily in the area of the development of legislation, the supervision of public procurement processes and the publication of data related to public procurement. The most important step is likely to be made in a significant reduction in classified public procurement and a transparent publication of the procurement plan on the web site of the MORH. Since the figures in this case speak more than a word I will state that in 2011 under the auspices of the defence secret was 52% of the total purchase in 2011. 51%, 2013 only 9% in 2014 covered by this report the percentage of secret acquisitions was only 5.74%. Similarly, MORH publishes individual competitions on its websites while all public tenders are published within the National Journals. Institutional mechanisms for the control of public procurement work. In addition to internal mechanisms in the MRLs, it is important to point out once again that the role of the Assembly Defence Committee, which gives an opinion on large procurement, is strengthened. The openness and transparency of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces has also been demonstrated through the activities of responding to civil and journalistic enquiries recorded in 2014 at 1,926. And finally, what we should always talk about and never be satisfied with the budgets. Of course, 1.3% of the decline of 0.06% compared to 2013 is lowly specific when it is considered 2% as the lower limit according to NATO's recommendation. but in 2014 there was a Croatian defence reality in which no increased national security threat at all. As I said, Croatia's defences are a well-organised and transparent system as described by this comprehensive report. In the hope of gradually raising a larger share of equipment, modernisation, and education in the SDP defence system supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112151	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112152	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We will express our satisfaction at the beginning and last year that the defence report will be discussed in a timely manner in the first half of the year, which is not a common case in the parliamentary procedure. As in previous years, we have no objection to the technical side of the report. The report is correct, transparent, complete, quite exhaustive from this as well as from previous reports or reports from previous years can indeed be obtained real insight into the situation in the armed forces. The key problem in the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces is insufficient resources to be provided in the state budget for the functioning of the Ministry of Defence or Armed Forces. The constant trend in the reduction of funds continued in 2014 raises the ability of the armed forces to function regularly, to fulfil their legal and constitutional obligations, in particular by looking at the long-term redundancy of funds with increased efforts in the MRLs and armed forces will likely be overcome in the short term, but will leave significant consequences for the armed forces and much greater isolation in the future than would otherwise be necessary. In fact, the defence ministry's 2011 budget of 5 billion and 24 million kuna or 1.53% of GDP has been reduced by more than 900 million kuna in the coming years. The implementation of the 2014 budget was only 4 billion and 170 million kuna or slightly less than 1.30% of GDP. For the sake of illustrations, the budget remained at the level of 2011 armed forces in the previous three years had 2 billion kuna more money, and we can assume what this would mean for the material and other standards of Croatian soldiers, the condition of equipment, weapons and techniques as a whole development projects and programmes of the Croatian Army. In particular, I pointed out this last year by discussing the report, the unfavourable structure of the implementation of the financial plan because 67% of the budget is allocated to military and civilian personnel, 1% more than in 2013, and should be less, 22.46% are maintenance costs, 2% more than in 2013, and the costs of equipment and construction are only 10.49% less than in the last year, and there should be more, while research and development is spent in negligible 0.04% of the budget. Those who wish to justify such a situation as budgetary means will say that it is a trend in most NATO member states and that Croatia is at the same level of separation somewhere in the middle when it comes to NATO member states and that is true. But that can't be an excuse and it's not enough resources if we want the Republic of Croatia to have modern and powerful armed forces ready to respond to the growing challenges. It should also be said that we are one of the few countries where the MUP budget is bigger than the MORH. In addition, one of the main topics of the last NATO summit in Wells was the financing of the defence of NATO member states in the world of the growing security challenges of the Ukrainian crisis, the situation in the Middle East and Middle East ISIL, terrorism and the situation in our immediate environment. One of the conclusions was that funding should not be reduced in any way, however, in the perspective it should seek to single out the recommended 2% of GDP for defence purposes. Well, they've seen it. It should only be recalled that the 2014 budget is lower by 350 million kuna than that of 2013. So much for finance. We support the efforts made in the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff in terms of modernising the Armed Forces such as the Patir programme, contracting in construction, patroled coastal ships in domestic shipbuilding, modernization of the Peregrine radar system, the acquisition of 12 PZH-2000 hoods from the Federal Republic of Germany, purchase of used non-combat motor vehicles, donation of 212 vehicles of different types from the United States, continuation of shipment of assault rifles for the needs of the Armed Forces in 2014 and so on. When it comes to remonting MIG's fact is that the whole business isn't done. When we received this report in the Armed Forces, only seven MiGs were delivered. Now the situation is probably something better and that the deadlines from competitions and contracts have been broken. This is one of the frequent examples from the procurement process that the cheapest offer is usually not the best offer. Once again, I want to repeat that the Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia need and must retain aviation within their own Armed Forces. We also support the practice of presenting to the Assembly Committee on Defence and the interested public the annual procurement plan at the Ministry of Defence as a way to make more transparent use of state budget funds and control of the same. We keep the Ministry of Defence's good and useful intensities to reduce the number of procurement procedures from year to year through exceptions caused by reasons of secrecy and to minimise the truth. When it comes to human resources management, the report shows that tasks are being carried out to achieve strategic specifics on the size and structure and quality of staff. A reduction of the working composition was continued and it is clear that it is much simpler to address this problem in respect of the active military personnel in 2014, 124 persons more than planned than in the case of red tape or civil servants. As many as 148 people were singled out less than the plan. We positively assess the transformation of the Croatian Military University Petar Zrinski into a modern military school that will be able to respond to all needs of the Armed Forces for trained military personnel. It is a good thing he started and that in 2015 the process of forming the reserve assembly of the Armed Forces will continue. But we'd be happy to see the funds needed for this purpose in the Ministry's budget. We are particularly positive that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as responsible members of the United Nations and as members of the European Union and NATO, participated in the operations and missions of peace support, and that 572 members of the Armed Forces participated in the total. In this way, the Armed Forces develop the ability to operate in the international environment and raise the level of interoperability. It is good that, given the financial situation, the level of participation is significantly lower than in previous years and thus significantly lower than in previous years. Special thanks to the Armed Forces deserve to carry out activities to support civil institutions in protecting and saving people and material goods. During 2014, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in the abolition of major open space fires, emergency medical transport, transport of transplant authorities, search and rescue bodies, prevention and elimination of the consequences of weather accidents, honouring funerals of deceased Croatian defenders, providing support to local, regional self-government units, state administration bodies, legal and physical persons and associations as well as providing humanitarian assistance abroad. For these purposes, it is spent from the budget of the MORH 138 million kuna. Although the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are inevitable in such activities and their contribution is immeasurable. We believe that some activities such as emergency medical search and rescue should not burden the MORH budget. Armed forces need and must participate but the costs incurred should be paid to the MORH, other institutions responsible for such events. And, in conclusion, we have no objection to the technical side of the report itself and what it says, but because of the constant trend in the reduction of financial resources and we have constantly warned and warned this opportunity that we will find ourselves in a very awkward situation, the Croatian Democratic Community club will be restrained when it comes to this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112153	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112154	Dear fellow Ivić. There are now two views of the military, in a situation like this in Croatia I think the government's decision is good. Because just before you mentioned Isil, you mentioned the situation in the world. You mentioned weapons, you mentioned that we were actually among those countries that are least invested in arming their armies. However, the ISIL problem is a far bigger problem and the problem of arming you know that now in a campaign in Turkey it has been discovered that Turkey was actually arming ISIL, although it is in the anti-ISIL coalition and the affair has not broken because many Western Europeans and the US countries are involved in arms smuggling. Guns are sold to everyone. You mentioned before what weaponry means. Remember only the Soviet Union and remember Yugoslavia. These were two great powerful forces armed when it came to weapons. They fell like card houses. We won the Homeland War because we had a great people, because we knew what we were fighting for and what we were fighting for. Therefore, I am not one to say let's arm as the Russians did, such as Yugoslavia, let's arm the army and let the people whistle under the burden of crisis. It is second if this government knows how to run the country so we don't need so many agencies, but I wouldn't cry so much and the military is for saving and the military did it professionally and, as counterpart Milinkovic said before, there are other institutions, there are firefighters and all those in an invisible position, who helped it and there are not so many praises. The army did it professionally and that's the way it should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112155	Time. Tomislav Ivić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112156	Comrade Vuksic, I do not think it is good what we have already heard in the debate so far that the Ministry of Defence will be the one to bear the greatest burden in cutting funds in the state budget. The defence ministry's budget over the past 3 years has been cut by almost 20%. I don't think that's good. It's not good for the Home Office to have a bigger budget than the Department of Defense. I said we're one of the few countries where that's the case. I'm not for arming ourselves needlessly either, but there are estimates and let's not forget that we're still living in an insecure environment. We don't need to look too much at ISIL, the situation in the Middle East. Let's look at the situation in our neighborhood, see what happened recently in neighbouring Macedonia, what is the situation in BiH, who says that in two or three years or five years, Croatia will not be in one complex security situation and therefore should not be seen as a cost for defence. Security clearance is not a cost, safety has no price and every serious and orderly state takes care of its own safety, and in any case, that defence separation should primarily be rational. It is illusory in this situation today to say that separation should be at 2% but this should certainly be a goal in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112157	Tanya Verbat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112158	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivić, here you are complaining about the state of weapons modernisation in the Armed Forces, regretting budget cuts. We can agree with that in part, but I wonder why you don't complain about those times when your governments managed a far greater budget of the Armed Forces. What kind of Croatian Air Force today would be if these vast billions had spent better in those times when it could have been, for example, not these vast billions, 2-3 billion larger budgets spent on non-transparent, secret, public procurements, which fellow Spolar clearly pictured from 52% secrecy to 5.74. It is about the 2014 report, the commander-in-chief was Mr. Josipovic, but today I am surprised that you have not taken the opportunity to highlight President Grabar-Kitarovic's role as commander-in-chief. I must point out that I am surprised that today's president, which is probably why you didn't even mention her, knows her powers in peace as top commander, and what's especially touching her eyes is that she walks uniformly around Croatia, creates a state of uncertainty and uncertainty and citizens wonder if we live in a military junta. I don't think it's really appropriate for the Commander-in-chief to walk on some occasions that aren't really suitable in military uniforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112159	Comrade Verbat, this last part wasn't a replica because that's not what my colleague was talking about. Tomislav Ivić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112160	Thank you very much. I agree, Madam Vice President, with you. The current President of the Republic knows very well what her powers are when it comes to Armed Forces both in war and in peace. As for that first part of my colleague, you must know that 5 or 6 or 7 years ago, the situation in the Armed Forces was very different, and for the normal functioning of the Armed Forces, it was necessary to allocate more money, first of all, because the Armed Forces were far greater than they are now and that in the last 10 years, a constant trend in the reduction of the Armed Forces and that I said so among other things in my report. And I said that it is good that this process of transparency continues and that he expressed first and foremost the satisfaction that the Defence Committee is also being represented by the Annual Plan to obtain the Ministry of Defence that this is a good practice to continue with and that we absolutely support it. And I don't see why you're so revolutionized to say so by my debate which was mostly correct, which was focused on what this report says, and what finances are the biggest problem is that colleagues are true and numbers speak more than words. And it doesn't need to be particularly smart for a man to conclude that the biggest problem of the defence system is finance and that the withdrawal of 1.30% and less than 1.30% is insufficient so that in the perspective of the Armed Forces can work and that we will have serious problems if that trend doesn't stop and unquestionably about which government is in power is that left or right option.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112161	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112162	Unlike colleagues of yours who advocate greater weapons, more allocation of funds, and even in these difficult times, I believe that the decision, as other government colleagues have said, is good, that the resources in these difficult times are directed to the extent necessary as the issue of the security of today's citizens, above all safety and jobs. And by the way, I think that there are better times, that the modern world needs less money for weapons and that we don't need as a small country to fight it, in one arms race. It will not bring so much peace to the modern world, nor will it contribute to security. That's exactly what you'd like to spend on weapons, I think we should send a message from here that more resources need to be invested for a more peaceful, more righteous world. I think he'll be safer then. So, never again war. I hear you, too, have heard those messages from the Pope of Sarajevo. You know, here it was also mentioned that the former state was spending huge funds on the account of its own citizens in arms, so when foreigners from Western Europe asked exactly why you're doing it, why you keep so much money in arms. So who's going to attack you? So if someone attacks us, and they get an answer from Europe, and what if no one attacks you? The consequences here in Croatia we know what they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112163	Tomislav Ivić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112164	You colleagues obviously don't understand how the system works. Croatia is responsible for members and certain associations. We are a member and the EU, in particular, stressing that we are a member of both NATO alliance and by entering those associations, we have also accepted appropriate obligations. And your government, as before, has accepted a recommendation within the NATO Alliance that 2% of GDP be allocated for defence purposes. I'm warning you that we're hundreds of miles away from that plan. Recently, in nine months, it was a NATO summit in Wales. Most of the words were just about the defenses. Croatia has also agreed that it is necessary to stop the constant trend of detachment for the needs of defence, and it happens with us all the time. And that in the perspective, it is necessary to seek to single out up to 2% of GDP for defence. I'm not one to arm and throw money where you don't need it. But once again, investment in security is not a cost, and n should be viewed as a cost. Security doesn't have a price, and we're not aware of it until something happens, and when something happens, it's usually too late and then the debates start why we didn't do something when we needed it and when we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112165	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112166	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear counterpart Ivic, you said the government's mandate has been reduced by the defence budget, specifically that in the last three years, the defence system has run out of nearly 3 billion kuna. That's right. So the defense budget is reduced you know for what reasons, so because of the six-year recession. But what you didn't say was that this government simultaneously increased the transparency of defence budget spending, i.e. the reduced value of so-called. Classified public procurement. This is the simplest way to document the data that in 2011, out of the total purchase of even half, so 52% was realised under cover of secrecy, and that in 2014 the percentage of secret purchases was reduced to only 5.7%. Therefore, even with the reduced budget of the Armed Forces, they do not tolerate the equipment and do not reduce the overall defence capacity of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. with a more rational and transparent business, more transparent procurement, more transparent management of the defence budget can be compensated for this lack of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112167	Tomislav Ivić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112168	Thank you very much. You fellows obviously didn't listen to what I was saying about this pay phone. I'll read you now what I said when it comes to the transparency that you call. We also support the practice of presenting to the Assembly Committee on Defence and the interested public of the Annual Public Procurement Plan at the Ministry of Defence as a way to make the use of State budget funds more transparent and control of the same. We keep the Ministry of Defence's good and useful intensities to reduce the number of procurement procedures from year to year through exceptions caused by reasons of secrecy, and to really come down to a minimum. So what do you want more? I've said everything. One of the reasons why it is probably so is the fact that your assistant has been recently, is that the late Vesna Orlandoni was also in the Ministry of Defense, which you replaced from the head of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112169	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Ivić, you were talking about how they were and how much the funds were cut in the state budget, i.e. in the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the material rights of Croatian officers, officers, soldiers also came to the margins, to the margins and to the minimum. This way of reducing funds and material rights certainly also caused the departure of 6 pilots of instructors and it was the most difficult blow actually for Croatian Air Force. Although we note that in recent times a total of 50 pilots have left, they have voluntarily resigned from the Ministry of Defence, that is what must not happen, that is what is a national disgrace and that is what was not concerned about. It's actually a security issue that should be discussed deeply. So, this brand of Croatians that was famous all over the world has gone suddenly I believe not only because of tempting offers, not only because they have been offered a basnoslovous sum of money for which they will work in Qatar, but the constant controlled conditions in their service have contributed to it, and it all stems from these material rights and relations with them as well as from the means used. The 60-year-old squadron also cannot meet their needs and conditions of further work as well as the patching of some half-remonts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112171	Tomislav Ivić, answer to the commando.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112172	So I agree with my colleague Djakic, after all, in the debate, and I said that the biggest problem in the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces, is insufficient funds to be provided in the state budget. All other problems arise from this problem. We can talk whatever we want. Let's just remember that old folk as much money and music. And that's the case here. And you have set a fine example: 6 pilots from the acrobatic group who, because of relatively small funds or small wages compared to other countries, were forced or applied for removal from the Armed Forces and went to work in Qatar. There will be such cases and in the future, they will be until the moment when we do not secure in the state budget the necessary funds so that the system can really function the way we all want it, whether we are left or right or central. In this matter, it should not play any importance. When it comes to defending the country, when it comes to security, everyone here should have the same view, especially when it comes to the means to ensure that the system can function.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112173	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112174	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me, on behalf of or in front of one opposition party or club of representatives of that party, highlight and actually congratulate that group of men headed by a minister and a deputy who in the past three years has been run by the Ministry of Defence who have actually done probably one of the best jobs in this government who otherwise has no God-knows-what results to praise in any resolution. I think that in the Ministry of Defence's portfolio, with the largest reduction in financial resources or budgets right for the MORH, they actually did as much as possible. And indeed, they must be told that in our opinion they have done a really good job and are doing a good job. Because the situation in the MORH was not only burdensome, not only problematic, not only burdened with corruption affairs, but the military in itself and this system is specific because it rests on a very strict actual command vertical, and precisely if you have problematic links inside that verticals very easily happen especially at the peaks and verticals very easily occur both corruption and disorder and injustice and a lot of bad. Even much easier, and it's much harder to actually see this than in some other ministries and other systems. Also, this report, as it is written, is well drawn up, transparently, solidly and covers a good part of the problem or topic concerning defence for 2014. Let me highlight some more elements, especially those that have actually opened up both in the debate and in the replicas to the presentations. So, when it comes to defence, I think we're all aware of what kind of space the Republic of Croatia is in, that we've all been learning history and we've noticed that in this space wars happen cyclically every few decades and so not just for decades but for hundreds of years. And it's almost illusory to expect that in those decades or hundreds of years that come after us these wars in this same geopolitical space will never happen again. In all the wars that took place in the history of the Croats died or no one died for Croatia, and the Croats died for everyone, for all the states, for all the kingdoms, for all the kingdoms, for all the Republics. The Croats died everywhere, and for Croatia and Croatia absolutely no one died. And whatever integration we are in at this point in our geopolitical moment we are in one political and military political integration. We used to be in some other and military, military political and military political integrations and when we were in them and no matter what contracts were signed for Croatia and Croatia, nobody died. I assure you of those who are two in this and that tomorrow anything happens in Croatia that no one will die for Croatia from today's military integration in which the Republic of Croatia is called the NATO Alliance. What we can expect most in the event of a threat to Croatian security, freedom, democracy or a threat to territorial integrity is that someone in the Mediterranean or possibly the Adriatic Sea will move a joystick left to the right and send missiles somewhere in the Republic of Croatia. So this is the most of that security shield and of course the political component, but when it comes to military, and no one will come to defend Croatian territory or in this alliance that we are in today. In the event of a threat to Croatian state space, it will certainly be the Croatian Army and no other army, as it has never defended it in history. Therefore, those who think in a similar way and in Croatian history talked about Croatian territory and other alliances in which Croatia was 40th and 19th centuries were always in a similar way and now we are here, we need to be strong, we need to be sovereign, we need to have a strong army, we need to have a strong institution all of this will be solved for us. Whenever anything happens, no one has solved anything like they won't in the future. And therefore to return, it is the obligation of the Croatian state to build a solid, strong, stable, modern, equipped and efficient Croatian army as a guarantee and shield of defence and integrity and sovereignty and future if you want the Republic of Croatia in this space. Everything can be relativized so, of course, this subject, but I don't know who can look back on the future in the past and say that's not the case. And even those who haven't had wars in hundreds of years or who don't allow themselves the luxury of relativating the issue of their own national security and defenses and modern armed forces. I'm going to mention an example of the Netherlands that has ultra-strong military power, extremely strong, extremely strong. She was very rarely found in wars. Neither the other countries, nor the Scandinavian states, nor the Benelux countries, so these countries in the EU are nothing much in a different position. The purchases, when it comes to the purchase of equipment or techniques, this procurement of hoodies in cooperation with the German Ministry of Defence one extremely good example actually is the way in which the Republic of Croatia can only actually come to sophisticated armed technique at this time and we are all more or less aware of who actually looked at this matter. And these are the first hoodies that the Republic of Croatia has at all, so it never even had them in place. So these are the first ones, supplied at a relatively favourable price. This is the only possible route in today's times otherwise the acquisitions of actually sophisticated military techniques because it is so expensive and so hard available that the Republic of Croatia will not have any other way in the future, even when it comes to the acquisition of aircraft and maintenance of flight capabilities which the HDSB Representatives Club supports in any case. It's going to be the only way actually rational and I think that unless I'm wrong that the current and the people who work at the Department of Defense think alike. The only way is actually going to be to get just in cooperation with friendly states to buy used, quality, modern aircraft. I'll mention the trucks, we see here, and so it's in the material that 272 military trucks of MAN4X4 carry 5 tonnes, total value of 1.9 million kuna. These are used, also used trucks purchased from the Federal Republic of Germany. When you share it, you get about 65,000 kuna per truck. I won't mention that purchase from 10 years ago when we were buying new trucks at a price of over 800,000 kuna apiece. So that's the way, that's the way. We are a state that has no means, objectively no but also has to maintain the level of equipment of the Armed Forces. These armed forces must as one sword, they have two basic acts one is a blade, so it is the active army, and the other is what continues on the blade, which is, it should be a reserve. We lost a great deal of military ability by actually losing the reserve, we lost the ability we had in the 1990s when we mobilized several hundred thousand people, today this ability to mobilise several hundred thousand people in the event of a war threat of the Republic of Croatia is gone. It is not because it does not classify naturally the reserve, there are no other than those 1000, or two more regiments, which is practically at the level of very negligible militaryly prepared people. Therefore, we would further update the subject that has been mentioned repeatedly in public and should be mentioned. I believe that there is a need to continue to mention and this is certainly a question of reflecting the military readiness of the entire Croatian people of course who can participate in defence and non-requirement and circumstances. A small nation, a small country in the war-torn area, must remain militaryly prepared to respond to the threat and cannot expect others to come and die for it in 10, 20, 30 or 50 years. We'll either be able to defend ourselves when that time comes, or we won't defend ourselves, and that time will, of course, sooner or later as it used to come again. The problem that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have been dragging all these years, these problems remain to a large extent present for the mandate of the current leadership in the MARH, which are two very important. One is the functioning of logistics, the other is staff management. Staff management in particular and in general the entire staff management system should indeed seriously modernise, inform, coordinate, make it transparent in the first row for those who are its users. If I don't know how we're going to do it, let's see how friendly armed forces do it within NATO's system of alliances that have made staff management systems very good. The Republic of Croatia is not and certainly late. Another problem of the Croatian army is a system of logistics which is serious, which falls on the smallest, very small obstacles, which falls on spare parts. And not to spare parts for planes, he falls on spare parts not to say for automatic rifles, he falls on gasoline, he falls on tires, he falls on making decisions to do something. I'd also say if we don't know how we're going to do it so let's look at how those who know and what systems have improved to the level that they really work well and well. And not that it happens that people pay their own way when they're officially going somewhere, if there's something to teach, they have to buy all the equipment because there's not, I mean a lot, there's a lot of issues inside that logistics system, so at a lower level, on a micro-level within the system itself. I know it's not just a job and it can't be the job of the minister and his deputy, but I'm afraid those who have learned within the armed forces system that they themselves won't change if the ministry or those who run the ministry really don't get serious pressure and impulses to start a little bit in a different way than they've done so far. And when it comes to the defense system and this report, the HDSB Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112175	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112176	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here I am pleased that Mr. Representative, in his presentation at the very beginning, praised the work of the ministry, or Mr. Minister and Deputy, and here we share an opinion and it is obvious that even with reduced resources, it can be very good quality work. But the following tends especially to this when you're saying, and that might be less important about one historical context, I think it's very wrong, but I'm saying it's less important. But what I'm particularly concerned about, and that's your thesis when you're also talking about the security aspect, and even relatively related to NATO, it's unacceptable what you said. So you simply questioned the justification of our survival in NATO, and I think that you have mildly spoken with your thesis exaggerated. Or if that's the case, then it deserves one broad debate and within this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112177	Drazen Djurovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112178	Thank you. Well, if it's my opinion, of course, we're world-famous in different positions, and in some world-famous topics, we certainly won't agree, when it comes to world-wide issues and thinking about freedom, defense, democracy, some values. When it comes to the NATO Alliance, I would ask you what you think the NATO Alliance would do in the event of a threat to the Republic of Croatia, we can discuss this. I really don't expect it, and I don't even know of such examples where what you think would happen, and I mentioned to you to remind you of the history that says the old proverb that "the history of life is a teacher," and we hope it is. And to remember which alliance and soldiers the state of which no matter what alliance Croatia found itself in its history came and died for Croatia at Dinara in Zagreb, Slavonia or in Rijeka. When and who? And no matter what we sign, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112179	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112180	While we are colleagues Đurović to history and you have concluded, of course it is in many cases so that no one died for Croatia except the Croats, I must mention, however, that there was in the Homeland War and the defenders who came from abroad. We also remember the documentary films of that Frenchman and his mother, the Frenchman who died in Vukovar at the defense of the city of Vukovar, so it is not a great number but it is a great honor for those who came to Croatia from other countries to feel that a young new state of Croatia is threatened to wage an unfair aggressor war against it to defend it. That was the way it was, and they should be given credit and honor. When you were talking about the reservation, then we really need it, so it is on track and those campaigns in the presidential elections and after that, when it was mentioned about, therefore, a short-term regular military deadline but it is actually keeping what is needed for the Croatian state of quality reserves, so I am talking about, so quality reserves that guarantee that the Croatian people can defend their country and their territory in these geopolitical areas and dangers. So I stand up for it just like you do for that quality reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112181	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112182	Thank you. In any case in the Homeland War there were foreign volunteers but they were not representatives of their own states or their armies and I am glad that you mentioned the volunteers of HOS Jean Michel Nicoleier, recently named after him a monument in Vukovar, otherwise my comrade and I thank you for that memory. When it comes to the reserve, surely no one advocates, no one would be smart and normal in favour of returning the military term in the way he was in the former South or in the way he was in the Republic of Croatia in those first years after the war. But I think that some form of organized service in one period, in a short period of time that was well organized, designed and that would actually enable all military bonds to acquire certain knowledge and abilities and then schedule into some defence units would be good for the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's national interests, and even if you want those people who would participate in that training.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112183	Hope Turina-Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112184	Well, colleague Djurovic, I would disagree with more of your findings in the debate that you presented on behalf of your club because it seems to me that despite your support for the report you have shown here a rather catastrophic state of defence of the Republic of Croatia which I do not see in this report, I do not see at all any disaster. In fact, I see one rationally set defence within the framework of the NATO alliance and I think that some major concern, especially some catastrophes in this regard should not be expected and neither should they be emphasized here through the debates. What particularly pushed me into your debate is that you mentioned and threatened the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think there should be any more discussion about how you discussed this, especially because in today's day, most of the modern democratic states, we should first of all fight our sovereignty by growing industrial production, export growth, increasing employment and otherwise overall economic development. And this defense-related part that could possibly be some threat to our country is certainly not going to be defended in a way that we are now investing billions of kunas in weapons technology. Because as we know and you said the same thing, a very powerful army, a very powerful army that was our aggressor in the Republic of Croatia was defeated in that same war. Therefore, it is not war if only technique and weapons are to be fought, but it is fought with both heart and mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112185	As the poet says, "The fight doesn't beat a bright weapon, it beats the heart into a hero.". Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112186	Yes, if we had the phonograms from, say, December 1, 1918 or 1879, I am sure that in those times of debate, as yours could be found among representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Because they believed then, too, here we are now, now we are there, no one will ever see us again, and many have always been in the Croatian Parliament. And they were even stronger than those who advocated both strengthening Croatia and strengthening Croatian sovereignty. Unfortunately, in many stages there seems to be more in the Croatian Parliament today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112187	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Party Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112188	Thank you, Vice President, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When it comes to the 2014 Defence Report, then we can say that it is written in quality. On the very part, we have no objections and we believe that these are activities that the Croatian Armed Forces carried out in 2014 and that it is correct and quality done and that we will support it accordingly. But in part of the report and I will look back on a few thoughts and what we think is important should be pointed out when it comes to the Croatian Army because the report itself says that the total employed in 2014 was 18 thousand 135 in the Ministry of Defence and of which the persons involved were 15 thousand 407 and the other officials were 2 thousand 728. It continues to say that the persons in service have decreased by 297 people and the filling in the structure that 88.66% means that 11.34% is missing, which means by some calculations that I tried to extract somewhere around 1600 persons in service to fill in everything that was drawn and envisaged in the Croatian Army. Now what needs to be said in particular, and that is the question of how the transformation is being made that more than 124 persons in employment have gone from the plan to the pension, while the officials have gone less than plan 148. These data clearly indicate that when it comes to efficiency and quality that should transform Croatia's army in any way is not good because this also shows that this part of the fill-up of the persons involved is not good. On the other hand, what has been pointed out today, and this is related to financial separation and to what some have warned, and also to that part of the recommendation that Croatia's NATO entry is also part of the recommendation that 2% of the military and 2% of GDP should be focused on modernisation somewhere. We have a completely different situation, we have 1.3% of GDP separation and we have a 0.6% reduction based on 2013. On the other hand, we can see that the cost when it comes to employment is the material waste and, practically, the cost on employees and on the material expenditures of 93.8%, and only that difference is almost very small amounts for the other needs that are very much present at the Ministry of Defence. In 2014, it was marked with a bad job, which is a question of the 12 MiG 21 remont. Clearly, no one knew when it was agreed that war would take place in the area, but the consequences were quite present, 7 MiGs were delivered, 5 were still in some kind of process, but those who were delivered were also many incidents and many problems with them, and so was this part of the Air Armed Forces in that part and were questionable about the functioning of the Air Force. But something that offered me little, which is the question that we will soon have in our debate, which is the amendment of the Defence Act, part of what I noticed in that law that we are practically opening up a space where, in agreement and agreement with other countries, we are giving our potentials in the airspace that others can participate in a contract between the two states or possibly our aircraft to cover the airspace of some other countries within the NATO alliance. I am now asking myself if this is now the opening of the protection of Croatia's airspace, this law goes in this direction that we will, in agreement with other countries and protect our airspace, which so far has been spoken of in a way that has been rejected, but from this amendment to the law that will be in the Assembly, it can be read that this will be the future of this because clearly this is also a bad situation and through this remont of MIG 21, and even to the very downfalls, and even the hagarium that took place in 2014 when only thanks to the pilot's position has been avoided and the major disaster related to the 5.8 marking in Knin. When it comes to the Navy, then we must also point out that there are a lot of problems, that there is obsolescence, and a lot of it is practically more to write off than what is in office. And when we have less allocations on this side because of the crisis, because of rationalisation and for everything else there is the Ministry of Defence mostly and whether it was affected in the last year by financial resources, then we can hardly talk about some larger and stronger and better modernization of the Croatian Army because if there is not enough funding then the quality is worse. But I have to ask another question here, and that's a question compared to other countries, because some say that this part of the GDP is the separation of 2% which is kind of a recommendation, it doesn't necessarily have to be a certain effect. The question is, what kind of GDP do we have? Economicly strong countries can afford to have smaller isolations and have a significantly greater effect. Looking through the situation where Croatia is and the problems we have in the economy are difficult and will take a long time to get out of the crisis, and then also an increase in GDP and in that part and some greater modernisation and efficiency of the Armed Forces. On the other hand, when it comes to the formation of the army, then we are like a rare country, even though we can say that Croatia and the Croatian Army were created practically from the defence war, but as few as we have 32 generals and admirals. If we compare it to other countries, for example, America has 11 active generals for four stars, and it has a far larger number. It is 547000 active forces, a national guard still 358000, and a reserve that was still spoken of today by 206,000, a total of 1.1 million soldiers and with practically only 11 active generals. We can say that in other countries it is significantly less, and that is also a question of the efficiency of military governance, and that I do not say more complicated things if we are talking about transforming and rationalising the military. For example, only Germany, which is said to have a significant number of generals, has 60, but one general is at 7,000 soldiers. And if we compare that to our 15032 generals, then it's very easy to get to that math that's too standardized that part when it comes to military management. It clearly takes a certain period. It can't be solved overnight, but the issue of efficiency of the military itself is very important, if we have entered NATO alliance then and in that part, we need some other army to have. To praise is certainly a report of what has been indicated, which is that finally the Croatian Army has begun to resolve a part of the property it had. They were inactive, that 107 apartments were sold and that it was incometing 11.6 million kunas, that 340 military properties were handed over to the State Property Management Office, which is, in any case, commendable for putting that part of the property into operation and that it has its own effects. It's clear that in 2015 it was continued in that part, and I think it's a good way to go. I particularly stress that, which is the issue of the Croatian Army's action in crisis situations, especially the floods that occurred, the transport of sick or injured and part of the humanitarian activities carried out by the Croatian Army, and in that part it is certainly commendable to all its activities. Something else I'd like to warn you about, and that's the question, according to some data, I've come to say that because of the lack of payout, night watch, there are certain court disputes that could cost about 100 million kuna. There are also around 20 million kunas of court costs and in this situation where less financial resources are clear that it can also be a certain blow related to finance. But in the context of this when we speak and related how it might have come to not respect certain provisions prescribed by law, but to exercise certain rights. He should have reached out for certain lawsuits. I believe that part will be easily overcome, but what I said at first is the essence of the report itself that is acceptable for Croatian Labourists and we will support it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112189	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Tušek, there's only one thing that actually corrects the wrong quote. You mentioned, and even twice that there are 11 generals in the United States. You once mentioned it with four stars, and that's a huge difference. So the four-star general is responding to our choir general. So we don't have a lot of choir generals either. So it's the highest act you can ever get in the U.S. Army, a four-star general. Of course, the number of active generals is incomparably higher, which corresponds to an incomparably larger size of the American army. Therefore, it is only important when we say that we are saying the right things because otherwise we can confuse the pots a little bit, so it can create the impression that Croatia has more generals than the United States, which, of course, is not true in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112191	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112192	I tried to warn you and here I can say that we are absolutely right if we take the number of active soldiers and compare the generals together, then very little that the army at that number I warned has a general. Because at the number, if we take, that we have 32 generals on 15000 and something active, and if we bring it down to what number of active soldiers falls on one general, I think some data only above us is Serbia that still has in that part. I think we need to transform in that part, that we're becoming completely different. But it's not just a question here that I've given for comparison, but there are a number of other countries that are in favour of what I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112193	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the Annual Defence Report for 2014. Like most clubs before me, colleagues who have been present, we commend the way they report, but of course other than the way they report, the content is always much more important and I must admit that it is very clear and very specific. Because the introduction outlined the finalisation of the proposal for a long-term development plan, which was adopted on the basis of the Croatian Parliament's decision of 12 December 2014, which adopted a long-term plan and the second area concerns the development and implementation of NATO's capacity targets. These are two current strategic documents that are being implemented. What is important is the implementation of reforms and adaptations to developments in the region and current situations. In addition to these reforms and the management and command structures of adaptation of modernisation, professionalisation, in particular rationalisation is something that is visible in any case regarding the Armed Forces, strengthening and those material resources is clearly visible. Contracting 5 patrol ships, completed remont 11 MiGs, not to mention the production of armored vehicles or PATRIA and a series of others that prove and demonstrate better equipment of the Armed Forces. Of course, only participation in missions of support for missions and operations shows complete readiness and professionalization that we have already brought to one high level of Armed Forces and to meet all challenges that are not really small in the global world, and also shows then essentially our readiness and this essential role that we have within NATO alliances. When we talk about an important segment, which is participation and collaboration with science and the University of Zagreb and cooperation with the economy. On behalf of the HNS Club, I'd like to give a special emphasis on these two essential elements. Because we know very well that in the world all strong armed forces have extremely good cooperation with science, institutions and universities. Not only for the coordination of education programmes, training of military workers, but also for the overall development of society and positioning of the Armed Forces in order to say so to the world market, as well as the domestic economy and sciences. It is known that all the European and global universities, we talk more about the United States when we speak within the NATO Pact, are related to the Armed Forces, or the NATO Pact, for research and science. And that's basically that major technology driver that tomorrow I say ends up on the commercial market. And it's one of the aspects that I believe the Ministry of Defence will work particularly closely together with cooperation for the economy. So science, the ministry and the economy is a space for our Armed Forces to have new technologies and knowledge that, regardless of all the material resources we have or we will have, show and maintain the strength of certain countries and certain Armed Forces as well as institutions such as science and the economy. And that's one of the most important factors that I repeat once again, I want to stress on behalf of the HNS Club and on which it is necessary to push and encourage this cooperation. And here we no longer depend solely on the resources of the Ministry of Defence, we depend essentially on the means the entire government has to develop these processes of joint cooperation on the benefit of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, the most advanced countries and the strongest Armed Forces have the highest quality relations with science, institutions and the economy. We have shown and proved that we have an economy that can monitor new technologies. We have an economy that exports where they are best quality, which is, of course, the United States, which shows that they only need support, and that framework should essentially be given to the Ministry of Defence. It is significant and good that the Ministry of Defence did essentially an analysis of the entire assets and left the DUUDI that part of the inspective property that could be given for economic purposes. It is important that a much better and better quality of public procurement was regulated and a series of these elements listed in the report show that the establishment and mode of work of the Ministry of Defence and the entire system had a very detailed and pedantic view of everything it covered and approached essentially that reform and transformation. This particular lack of funds that we said we would increase it as a share of the budget in the gross defence budget in any case took place with quality management of course or management to manage all resources more rationally and to make use of the maximum resources available at this time. The ability to deal with future challenges is what we do whenever we speak in the Ministry of Defence important, security, stability and, of course, our membership in the NATO Pact, our participation in this, but also the verification of our role as small as possible, but also our members more than 500 in all missions, in missions and support missions and operations in which they participate show high, high professionalism and not only because of experience but also from training they have. And that part and segment that they do through training of other or police or military and friendly countries that need help just shows that our space in that segment can also be in peace missions, but also today as part of a segment that can be marketed. It should be particularly stressed and commended that the safety of our soldiers on all missions, that for the safety of our soldiers in all missions of the day is maximum, maximum engagement and that the risks that always exist are reduced to what they would say to the least possible level, of course that unfortunately they can never be excluded. Once again on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, we imitate this report and we stress, we point out in particular that the emphasis is given on science, on university, on cooperation with the economy, it is also a space for the development of the economy and this country, but also for the development of technology where really every defence force must give the greatest emphasis today and show its strength there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112195	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Ante Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112196	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr Ivić has actually spoken thoroughly and clearly about this report and about some other remarks at the expense of the Ministry of Defence, holding the key in fact the lack of funds for the functioning of the Ministry of Defence which leads to their legal and constitutional obligations and, of course, speaking positively about all those things that were related to this report. And I'm actually going to stick to certain items related only to this report that we got as parliamentary representatives. In the replica itself, I was talking about the Kadet program, so I'm going to skip it, and I'm actually going to start with this BOV Patria armored vehicle. Indicators relating to the procurement of fighting armored vehicles of these BOV Patria are important not only because of the public's great interest in the procurement process itself, but also because of the large engagement of financial resources over a period of years which significantly burden the defence ministry's budget and which is actually visible from the state budget itself. According to those available data for the purchase of 126 equipped combat vehicles, 2.5 billion kuna were planned according to the 2012 report, and by the end of 2014, 2 billion and 222 million kuna were actually spent. According to this report, by the end of 2014, some 89% of the planned funding was spent and was delivered to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia 60 combat vehicles. Unless I'm wrong about 44 on temporary use and 16 on continuous use. That's 48% of combat vehicles. So according to this report, 48 combat vehicles were delivered and 89% of the planned funding was spent. First of all, the difference in the ratio of the vehicles delivered and the financial resources spent is so large that it is obviously a misrepresented factual situation. Also, reading the report in several previous years did not clearly present the entire process of public procurement and the equipment of fighting armored vehicles of these BOV Patria, and in fact some impression that certain problems exist in its realization. I will visit you to see that the 2012 report says that 37 vehicles are equipped and handed over to the Armed Forces and 1.8 billion kunas have been spent. The same report also says that by the end of 2013 there will be 60 fully operational vehicles in the Armed Forces units. The 2013 report said that in April 2013, the consortium, I presume, delivered Djur Đakovic to the MORH and the last of 126 vehicles. By the end of 2013, temporary use for training purposes was dedicated to the Armed Forces of 40 vehicles. In 2014 and 2015, equipment and completion and transfer are also planned for use in the Armed Forces 118 pieces of vehicle, as well as for the introduction into operational use of all 126 pieces to be completed in 2016. Now, it is also obvious that unclear and unconsistent data relating to the purchase of fighting vehicles of these BOV Patria during the previous reporting period but then need to be provided clear answers to the essential issues relating to this subject of procurement. In the 2013 report, which states that in April 2013, the consortium delivered all 126 vehicles to the MORH, so we had in that report from 2013, but the MORH did not surrender those vehicles to the Armed Forces and there is actually a problem. Now, how much really is committed to fighting armored vehicles should you know, what status are these unsupervised vehicles in and where are they, in fact, all these unsupervised vehicles? Or Djura Djakovic's or the Armed Forces? How late is the overall project to purchase and equip fighting armored vehicles BOV Patria, in fact, given the established dynamics and when is the end expected? In the raised level of security of the communication and information system, significant shifts have been made in the systems and procedures of defence of the information system, etc. Cyber default, and during March 2015, there was actually this cyber attack that caused significant damage to the defence system when large amounts of data were lost. Now, if that's the case, they're not familiar with the extent of the damage and there's no telling what's been done so that these situations don't happen in the future. It is further stated on page 74 that the Croatian Navy does not have the capacity to operate according to the objectives below sea surface, although it has a further ability to detect and monitor objects beneath the sea surface. I don't think he's thinking about divers. It would be good to hear what is planned to achieve this ability. In the assessment of the state of competence it is written in the report about educational and informative material, but there are no real indicators that were done during 2014, although it is quite well written here, but there is no what was done in 2014. Then, compared to 2013 in 2014, there was an increase in the number of compulsory exercise activities, this data is certainly commendable and is shown in that table display, but it is said and the question is why is the branch of the HRZ and the PDO participating with only 2% of the costs. And what I was telling you in the replica, which I will repeat before the regularity of the ships of the HRM fleet, which is very commendable, which is that working disputes account for 29% of the total number of disputes, and more than half 51% of all cases are from the field of work dispute and relate to the demand for employees to pay the payoffs on the basis of early work, work on tours, duty, guards, difference for vacations and so on. Now we should know how this happened and what financial amount we are dealing with, which would certainly interest us as parliamentary representatives, as well as the entire Croatian public. I really want to believe you that the Republic of Croatia today and tomorrow will think about having modern and effective armed forces that are in our best interests, so it is commendable that everything that can be read in this report is certainly good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112197	Final presentation of Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishnja Tafre.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112198	Honorable ladies MPs and counsellors. First of all, I want to thank you all for your commendation, both on the plight and on the suggestions you've given us, but I'm going to try to take a turn for what I wrote down during your remarks. Under 1, I would like first and foremost to point out that the reduction of the defence budget does not prejudice the functioning of the armed forces. Some of you have said this sentence during the debate, and I really assure you that the level of the budget that we now have allows for the functioning of the armed forces. In the opening statement, I explained to you how, so we're rationalizing, saving, adapting, everything that we thought was wrong in the defense system, we tried to change, reform, lead to some other and better solutions, and we had significant savings. In the report itself you saw there are examples where we specifically showed you the savings in which the amounts of money were achieved, with the transparency of the purchase itself. What really surprised me, and this is today that during this debate, the transparency of the Ministry of Defence in public procurement was at stake during the beginning of the debate. I have to admit that it surprised me by some parliamentary representatives because the Department of Defense is truly transparent in carrying out public procurement procedures. The Parliamentary Defence Committee is invited at the beginning of the year or at the end of the current year for the following year and is familiar with the complete procurement plan for the next calendar year compared to the budget allocated to us. We also call on the Council of Anti-Corruption from the Croatian Parliament to monitor all our activities. And the story of us not being transparent or today's speculation that we're not transparently engaged in the purchase of hoodies, I also find it inappropriate. So the story of us making an agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany is true. The Republic of Croatia cannot afford, or cannot afford, or the Ministry of Defence, unfortunately, from the budget it has, for us is not affordable to purchase new hoods. The Federal Republic of Germany went to write off a certain part of the hoodie and offered it to us so that it wasn't the ragged-out hoodies as someone said or out-of-date hoodies, and it wasn't the hoodies that had run out of time, it was the Federal Republic of Germany that reduced the number of hoodies it had in its armed forces and offered to buy them to us. The Ministry of Defence will buy without a weapons system every hoodie will pay a million euros and after that we are with via NASPA for telling you so NATO agencies we will go to the purchase of part of the weapons system that goes into these hoods and the total of their remonting and modernization means getting into a state for a reason, the main reason is that the Federal Republic of Germany's Fire Management System that it has does not want to sell to other countries but offers them a replacement system. I mean, I don't see why it's not clear to someone to say it's intransparency. So we estimate that it's going to cost us 340 million kuna, maybe it's going to be something more and maybe something less, depending on how the total CLM is going to be remounted, so that's the company that's going to be doing the total remont. The story of us being someone's listeners, so it's been brought into line with the relations between Germany and Greece, I don't think there's any need to comment on it here at all. So Croatia is a member of the NATO Alliance and of the European Union, we implement the meaning of the NATO Alliance framework, which is what we need to satisfy these are the goals of NATO's ability to participate equally in the CSD, it is a common security and defence policy of the European Union. Speaking of questions raised here, some of them would be asked what about personnel in the Armed Forces, that is, Mr. Novak was talking about not taking care of what people are going to get out of the contract and it's about contract soldiers. Here I hope that next week I will have opportunities here in the Croatian Assembly before you, due to the amendment and addition of the Law of Defence which one of the parliamentary deputies mentioned here, means offering you another possibility of adoption so that we can take care of a part of the means of a soldier who will not go to so-called. early retirement rather than for which other state administration bodies would show an interest in the abilities they, and knowledge, have developed during their military service contracts. Here I primarily think of the needs of the judiciary or the judicial police, and such a solution will be offered to you in the Defence Act that I expect to discuss next week. As far as the rights of officials and subsistence are concerned, I must say to parliamentarians that officials and deputies of the Ministry of Defence as well as all other bodies of the State Administration are subject to the Law on State officials and tenants and collective agreements, the Ministry of Defence does not in any way violate that right, but here in mentioning jubilee awards, it was the Government who made the decision that the jubilee prizes were paid in a reduced amount. These days, if you've heard it means a decision has been made to return those rights, and exactly the Ministry of Defence will mean a reduction and now the return of these rights will be an unplanned cost of 11 million kuna that we have to secure in the budget in order to give a jubilee award at the full amount to which civil servants and subsistence under the collective agreement will have the right to be paid. As far as transport costs are concerned for officials and tenants, we really don't know the fact that we don't participate, so either we don't pay transport costs because they simply can't accept it, and it's not true, just as it isn't true that soldiers, so in the Guard troops all have free food. I explained part of the subsidized diet to you and last year, we even finished it this year, and we raised the amounts of the subsidized diet according to the Defence Minister's decision for certain categories of officers, officers and soldiers. So I don't think there's really any problem in that part that we should talk about. It talks about when the Ministry of Defence or the Republic of Croatia will reach 2%. So I can really say it means that it's a recommendation and no one is serious and responsible, and even in the NATO alliance, and even in the Wales summit, it didn't make it a condition. The basic message and Wales was to stop the further collapse of the defence budget and that is what we have tried and what we are doing and which is why in the long-term development plan we went with a conservative method and this method means to stop the collapse of the defence budget in the next 3 years to be at the same level or to be slightly increased so that we can monitor the economic opportunities that are happening in the Republic of Croatia. If you have carefully looked at the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, you have had the opportunity to see which years we expect is the growth of the defence budget, which it should reach. But here again I must remind you that I cannot enter into that part of the budget and the funds that should be provided for the purchase of new fighter aircraft. Therefore, it is impossible to finance it from the budget because if you are familiar with the prices you know what the price means of new fighter aircraft plus the possibility of their maintenance and further exploitation. Someone here mentioned by you means that, as far as the reserves are concerned, it is as according to the decision on size, composition and mobilization development that the President of the Republic has made, 20 thousand reserves plus 1000 contractual reserves are foreseen. We are now in phase, meaning the first stage of the realization of a reserve which unfortunately hasn't since the end of the Homeland War at all. And it's ours to give us an opportunity and an opportunity, it's just as big a financial cost that we can't spend in one year but it takes a certain period, so the level of reserve as we train them and so can their equipment. As far as selling non-spective weapons is concerned, it is logical that the Ministry of Defence sells it, it resells it through the State Agency Alan, there is also no problem, so Alan for the Ministry of Defence is selling non-spectoral weapons and as well as the murderous means for which you saw in the report the amount of the Republic of Croatia owning them too, some of these means donated to other countries, as you can see in the report to Mali who needed to do so and normally sell others. And it is also the Ministry of Defence's income that serves means of equipment and modernisation according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision. Furthermore, I must, I meant not to say it, but I must say, I was surprised by the abstention of the HDZ Club on this report because, I'll tell you for a reason because I think a abstention report should be the one that has something to object to the way that we did business in that year, the way we spent our funding, the way we had what we had, and restrained because these funds were not enough in relation to the wishes that we had. Because I can't say I don't know which defence minister, the deputy minister, would be happy if he didn't have more money in the defense budget, I don't think he would be in this place. I think that showing this dissatisfaction should be expressed at the moment when it is passed means the budget of the Ministry of Defence, but not at the time when I expected it to be truly acceptable to be restrained. However, when there are reasonable reasons for this, I will accept any criticism that we did not do well means in 2014 or we have not met the objectives set, but we cannot be punished for just using the financial resources that we have given. Some of you here have also said that MIG 21's remont was a bad job. I can't agree with that either. So bad work is something that isn't done, bad work is something that didn't bring results. It is true that there are both subjective and objective reasons for lateness in this business, so the situation that was happening in Ukraine has partly made it difficult for us to carry out the repairs. Likewise, there were shortcomings that were on the side of the Ministry of Defence which were not within the deadlines to deliver the spare parts that we assumed were correct on the part of the MiGs that we had sent to the remont. One of the MPs here mentioned that one of the MiGs had fallen, it wasn't the MiG that was on the remount, it was the MIG which meant it wasn't remounted at all, which was supposed to go on the remont so that and it was a total remark that as such I couldn't accept. And I want to point out once again, out of 12 MiGs 11 has been taken over into Armed Forces and in everyday use is what is on average for each Air Force standard, which is that 7 to 8. Therefore, those following the Croatian Air Force know what this means when it comes to fighter aircraft. Only one MiG has not been taken over, we expect its takeover by the end of this month and for the only reason we have not been able to obtain on the market. As far as the questions of the pilot are concerned, I thought no one would touch it, but since you've touched it, I have to answer that question. First of all, it's not about the Air Force pilots, so it's about the pilots who were driving our pilastos and were part of the storm wing. And to say that we are absolutely responsible for their departure I don't think it would be correct. So pilots like all other interests in the Republic of Croatia at the time they were offered means more income than we were able to offer, and believe me, their salaries at the moment they were offered were offers that they definitely did not or could not refuse. Therefore, I cannot promise anyone responsible from this speaker that I can give them at any point in time the receipts they have received in this way and that it is legitimately the right of everyone in this republic, even if it is the Republic of Croatia and the pilots, means that after they have fulfilled their contractual obligation and their obligation is contracted to the Ministry of Defence for 10 years to have the opportunity to seek another occupation. The Ministry of Defence is facing difficulties and we are just trying to deal with them in a way that we are doing intensive promotion for the entry of new people who will rejuvenate means to pilots who are missing, and right here these days we are ahead of selection means new young people who have opted for a pilot's call. Equally, you must be aware that out of the large number of applicants very few satisfy that the health care of psychophysical criteria in order to be accepted for the training of pilots. The issue because it is a security issue to leave 6 pilots certainly did not endanger, the Croatian Air Force has about 252 pilots somewhere, so we did not endanger anything. So some of them fly, some of them are assigned to other command and officer duties. Mr. Tušak, I think he's still alerted us to some of the, uh, that the Navy's out of date and it's mostly for write-offs. I really wouldn't dare say such difficult words, so the Croatian Navy meets all the obligations in its description of the business. If it wasn't for that, we wouldn't be getting involved in this means offering Italy our ship to assist in the humanitarian operation. Likewise, the Croatian Navy saw your abilities headed for the RBS 158, so with all the knowledge owned by our people means we went into a remont rocket. We expect that the ones we have to remount and thus extend their lifetime to some new decision when there is more funding in the acquisition of a new system. Mr. Babic, I remained in his debt at the beginning to answer the question relating to unpaid, or to a large number of lawsuits. I've already explained where the lawsuits came from several times in this House of Representatives means that there are unpaid salaries, regresses, journals, overtime and so forth. By the time the current government arrived at the Ministry of Defence, the Law on Defence and the application of collective agreements that have been applied to military service since 2008. What we found unacceptable is that the military service falls under a system of collective agreements and methods of payment of persons who have defined themselves as military service, and in 2012 we changed that. So what we have as a lawsuit and what's true to us, I'll tell you what that number is, 80 million kunas per year cost you performances at the Ministry of Defense and weigh 80 million kunas without any delay about it. So they're the result of every soldier being entitled to overtime after 4:00. Now you tell me and you're all serious here, tell me if the military service can be eight hours regular hours from 8:00 to 4:00. Our position was that he couldn't. We've changed that, and the military has introduced a supplement called a military supplement that compensates them for part of their income. Another way of redistributing, so what they did before that was to pay, i.e. to allow the use of days off under two. And thirdly, what we really couldn't compensate in any way would only be paid in that situation. So, working on a soldier tour, working on a second shift, I think military service is something that implies. One who has opted for military service must be aware of that, means that military service gives something, but it also takes away. Therefore, these are the basic reasons why we have primarily judicial disputes from that period that we are still hostages and we will be hostages for one more time until they are resolved. Because people used their right to give them a collective contract, they sued the Ministry of Defence and courts according to the laws that were in force at the time of the beginning of that period for which they sued neatly or judge in their favour. I apologize if I may have forgotten someone's question. I thank you for supporting us this year, too, in this report. And here's what we can say that in 2015 we're going to do at the same pace as we did in 2014. So we'll also try to end this year in the best possible way with projects that you'll have the opportunity to see and hear. And to Mr. Babic, here I have remained obliged to answer the question of combat armored vehicles. The truth is, he started the program, so the project started back in 2000 there on the sixth to the seventh year. What you were comparing, meaning 126 vehicles from Gjure Djokovic was delivered to the Ministry of Defence. However, base vehicles have been delivered so that some reports overlap. So the base vehicle is something that I would tell you is called armor or bodywork. The base vehicle must be installed. The installation of all possible devices that enter the combat vehicle itself depending on their purpose was carried out in Đura Đakovic at the speed and pace at which the Ministry of Defence managed to implement, means public procurement procedures for each of the telecommunications assets, means connections and other. In this I will also honestly admit to you we had difficulties somewhere because of funding, so on one occasion we did not get, in one public procurement process we did not get remote-controlled weapons stations 12.7 mm but we went to two competitions. So the first 74, the other 74. Now we've got weapons stations in total, and the Armed Forces has now turned over 60, about 60 combat-armed vehicles that are fully equipped. The surrender that was before that means you don't think those combat vehicles were standing in some Department of Defense yard. No, they were also on temporary use in the Armed Forces where they conducted training and training and currently what we have left and that means calling a public tender for 8 remote-controlled cells 30 mm. And that we hope that before the parliamentary committee we will also request their opinion next week, that we, in fact, think that we are going to that last purchase so that we can complete these last 8 stations that have a 30 mm weapon system on them. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112199	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112200	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Deputy, you express the wonder why someone will not support it, or why they will be restrained when voting on this report and say that their dissatisfaction should have been expressed when the state budget was adopted. I will just remind you that we have always expressed our dissatisfaction when there has been a debate on the budget and that we have then warned as well as today that for certain resolutions, insufficient resources have been provided. And that's the basic and key problem in this report and is there a clearer and cross over the reason why we won't support this report. If the government had implemented reforms that were to be implemented and thus made savings, rather than going by the opposite logic of cutting funds in the Ministry of Defence, the situation would probably have been different. And your claim that you have stopped the trend of the budget in the Ministry of Defense is simply not true and this report shows it. I'll just remind you that the 2014 budget is lower by 350 million kuna from the 2014 Plan, 350 million kuna. Look at the state budget, not rebalancing, but look at the state budget that we adopted in the Croatian Parliament and you will see that the budget is lower by 350 million kuna. Have you stopped the fall, and I wish it had. This will only be seen in 2015 when we read the report, i.e. in 2016 when we read the report since 2015. Our desire and intent is the same as yours, to stop this fall as soon as possible, and to grow the detachment for the defense and preferably reach those 2% as soon as possible, because then it will be much easier to think about the purchase of non-useable than new fighter planes and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112201	Replication response, Vishnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112202	Here's Mr. Ivić's summit in Wales happened in September 2014 when we already had the budget. So I am also expressing hope that we will maintain the commitment that we have committed to further halting the budget. That means we won't see it until next year. So it's up to us to try to fix it, and by reaching 2% of the defence budget, you saw it yourself in 2024, I think it's going to be for all of us, I'd like it to be the same as you, but in 2024, if it works out according to the DPR projections, we'll be satisfied both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112203	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112204	Thank you very much. I did not discuss this report, however, but I had to report eventually for the simple reason that we all have to be careful when we make certain decisions. 2008 wasn't that far. You are well aware of where the collective contract is agreed and where the percentage agreed for the Ministry of Defence is to the horror of the then Minister of Finance, i.e. 'Cause it just couldn't be respected. You know exactly where it's arranged and where it's signed and told how much it stands out. So it's a fact you can't escape from. It is also defined how much Croatia will single out as a NATO member in the coming years. However, why will the HDZ Club be restrained over this report? No, we praised the report there in that segment in which it should be praised and where things are good, but this report is in a certain way a reflection of the policy of this government. The same thing as was done at the Ministry of Defence was done in the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Health, all purchases of any apparatus or anything, and in the technological progress that is in the world at this time such as in 2 or 3 years, Croatia will have any problems not only in the Ministry of Defence but also in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. So, a completely identical story, unimplemented structural reforms, unimplemented fiscal consolidation and ad hoc cutting. You know very well how you've cut off certain positions of the Department of Defense. Not because you wanted to cut them like that, but simply because you got the frames in which you have to move. Therefore, what is good is good, and abstention is due to the general government policy because the government has not implemented structural reforms, and I repeat what I said at the beginning, you know very well when and where the collective agreement is signed and where the percentage for the allocation of defence from the state budget is defined. 2008 was the end of the economic and financial crisis in the world and, practically, the following year was a major decline in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112205	Vishnya Tafra, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112206	I didn't say it was, I didn't mention it to the government or anything, I said that at that time means to bring regulations that allowed many years later, so before the age of our soldiers or active military personnel to exercise the right and sue the Ministry of Defense to exercise their rights which someone then collectively gave them. I wasn't talking about guilt, I wasn't talking about anything, I was talking about the fact that it was done then. We are trying to correct it in a way that we really think that a military invitation is not an invitation that should be under the provisions of a collective agreement but simply that the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces should be applied to it and we are still standing there. As for your claims that the procurements at the Ministry of Defence have been stopped I really can't agree with that because I'm really going to repeat the procurements at the Ministry of Defense have been made in these 3.5 years of procurement for 2 billion and 400 million kuna. And it's certainly much more than in the previous period with the reduced budget that we have. We're really trying, so for 2 billion and 400 million kuna we got. Here in the debate, between individual parliamentary representatives, we heard that some said that there was not so much procurement in some previous period. The truth is, it wasn't, for exactly the reason why much more resources were spent on staff, and you can see what part of the staff's expenses were at the Department of Defense. The truth is that the people who came out of the defense system then had more severance than they have today, and that part was spent an extremely large amount of money. The truth is, we cut them down today. The same way those people we've cut off from, who are military personnel, are retired. No active military person goes on the road. This is where I heard comments from some parliamentary deputies who said it was much harder to fire a civil servant and a substitute. That's right. However, the Ministry of Defence has found a way of saying that the number of people who do not need it, which is usually at the Department of Real Estate Management, simply so their working relationship in the Ministry ceases to work for the company "Pleter" in providing some other services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112207	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. Since we're supposed to start a new point, but we're short on time, we'll be back at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112208	The 2014 Annual Defence Report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′The Annual Defence Report for 2014′′ is hereby adopted. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and nothing against votes, have adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112209	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will now discuss: - Proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Remembrance on 20 June 1928 – Proposer Branko Hrg. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am pleased that this moment has come to discuss this proposal, especially thanks to the Croatian Parliament Presidency and the Croatian Parliament leadership for what is happening today, the day before the birthday of Antun and Stjepan Radić, which is tomorrow. As has already been announced here, this is a harmonised proposal, so to speak, after the initial proposal by me as a representative and a government opinion which was slightly different from the proposals I made, we stopped the little process of further discussion and agreed to try to harmonise this proposal. And in that part of the amendment that I basically submitted to the proposal the day before is the current agreed proposal. So, on July 3rd, I tabled a proposal to announce the Memorial Day of 20th of June 1928. On 7 July 2014, the government established a new proposal and appointed the Ministry of Culture as its representatives who would be present at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies. Since it is a historicly very important event and persons for the Republic of Croatia where there is no room for political outwitting, I have requested a delay in adopting and agreeing with the Ministry of Culture. The proposal was agreed with the Ministry of Culture in the form of a change in the name itself means that it will not be called Memorial Day on June 20th 1928 but rather be the 20th Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and June's victims. The event, which took place on 20 June 1928, marked Croatian history in any case. It is about the assassination of Serbian politician Punisa Racic of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party in the National Assembly in Belgrade. The result of this crime was the death of three and the wounding of two Croatian peasant party representatives who defended Croatian interests in Belgrade. Two MPs, Paval Radic and Djuro Basariček, were killed at the scene, while HSS President Stjepan Radic, then, died from the consequences of the assassination attempt, of the 8th Kolovos. Representatives Ivan Grange and Ivan Pernar were also wounded. Croatian lawmakers were threatened before the assassination itself. In fact, in the press there were messages that openly warned Croatian lawmakers to adapt their interests to the interests of Serbian politicians. After the assassination of the press in Croatia, the Croatian public reported an event in the National Assembly. The assassination of the people's representatives in the Belgrade Assembly was seen as an attack on the entire Croatian people, followed by heated protests throughout Croatia. Zagrebačka Vecer, Obzor and Novosti report in detail on all these bloody events and the additions of dead representatives to Zagreb. Stjepan Radić passed away from the 8th Kolovoz in Zagreb. Meanwhile, the Croatian press devoted a lot of space to this event, while the Serbian press led the anti-Croatian campaign at the same time, as the final goal of the political elites that initiated the massacre to Radic tried to reach Zagreb as they speak Zagreb's Novosti the day before he died. On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Stjepan Radić's death... North America is visited by the future founder of Croatia's new historian, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. He held a series of lectures in Canada, the United States on the subject of Stjepan Radić in Croatian history, and in the first sentence of his lecture, he argued, "6 decades after the martyrly death of Stjepan Radic can with full historical testimony claim that he belongs to the order of those Croatian giants, which marked the survival and suicide of the Croatian people in European and world history by their names2. In a detailed account of all the political factors of Radic's time and later Tudjman concludes that Radic is one of the few who are of fateful importance in the history of the Croatian people. At the same time, the writer, historical researcher and publicist Zvonimir Kulundzic, also thought of the 60th anniversary of the death of Stjepan Radić, publishes the book "Stjepan Radić and his Republican Constitution" In the early 1990s, Radic's dream and dream of Croatian people began to come true, the Croatian state became a reality, on the cover of the Vecernje list on June 20th, '91. A year. In the interior, a big interview with President Franjo Tudjman. Vjesnik published by Franjo Tudjman, Stjepan Radić in Croatian politics and history in 11 extensions. But the news in Vjesnik since June 20, '91. The Belgrade assassination is completely undetectable in a small historical context. The survey of Vesnik and Vesnik in the 20-year existence of today's Croatian state shows that these two daily presses since '91. By 2013, the Belgrade Assembly's assassination of Stjepan Radic was only marginally recorded. It is mostly short news about the position of the wreaths, the head of HSS and the service of the suffocation mass on August 8th for Stjepan Radić is extremely rare and inexplicably reminded of the anniversary of the bloodbath on June 20th, '28. the years and the murders of Croatian parliamentary deputies in the Belgrade Assembly. An extremely rare mention of the murder of MPs Pava Radic and Đura Basariček in the Belgrade Assembly. Something more about this event has only been recorded since '91-98. in total, in the first 8 years of the independent Croatian state, four sublimes about the extensions and three articles related to the anniversary of the Belgrade assassination on 20 June '28. A year. Since '99. By 2012, writing about the assassination in the Belgrade Assembly, the political importance of these events, and news of the anniversary of the death of Stjepan Radic, are completely negligible. In that sense, for 20 years, the publicist Damir Borovčak spotted only one journalist who rebelled against these neglects, which is Milan Jajcinovic in Vecernji list titled "Forgotten Stjepan Radic". All the time since '91. By 2013 it was not remembered that the Croatian National Assembly delegation had placed crowns on the graves of murdered Croatian MPs or that the Croatian National Assembly had remembered its representatives who were killed in Belgrade at their meetings. Again, the question is whether we have the right as a people and whether there is a right by the people to forget such crucial historical events. We believe that the celebration of the Day of Remembrance of this unfortunate event should not be the duty of members of the HSS alone but should be the duty of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I will say Radic is the first politician in Croatia to bring politics to the people. It could be said that he is the creator of the Croatian political people. Stjepan Radic, Paval Radic, Đuro Basariček, Ivan Grandja, Ivan Pernar deserves this decision to be voted unanimously. I suggest that the day of June 20 means being introduced as the Day of Remembrance and... Session at the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On that day, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament laid the crowns on the graves of the representatives, that the death day of August 8, '28. The Croatian representative Stjepan Radic's year should also be marked by the Croatian Assembly of Representatives and by laying crowns on his grave. I came looking at this booklet for the first time in the Croatian National Assembly of Talks by Stjepan Radic. In this introductory explanation, only one short fraction. According to Radic, that's what I said and proved that agrarism or peasant politics is what I call it for a domestic world phenomenon. I'll be free to warn you of something else that's equally important to see how we can't be kidnapped on that matter. It is known that the first democracy was created in France, it was economically called liberalism or if you want free competition. That's where the chihuahuas were so thrilled. Another democracy was working or socialist. Economically, it's called confiscation or seized, and the destruction of private property by the state. And that's where the chihuahuas are thrilled with the hope of confiscating others and just not to them. The third democracy is peasant, it's a democracy called economic production or economy. Production in the most similar sense of the word. As long as we're on the ground, it doesn't help liberalism or competition. Because what you're gonna compete with when you've got nothing. It doesn't even help to confiscate. Because you'll confiscate when you've got nothing. So it takes production, production, economy, and then you can compete, and if you want to confiscate. It already shows that agrarism is a world phenomenon and that this issue is also being imposed on anyone who is a democracy, a public figure. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleague so much for an introduction. So I ask you, in your discussions, to support this proposal, that, in your vote, when it comes to order, you also support it. I think our compatriots, MPs, colleagues deserve to be remembered one day a year, and to make our decision on that day of memory unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112211	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Allen Kajmovic, Deputy Minister of Culture. ... And I'm sorry, Deputy, I didn't see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are on behalf of the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112212	It's not on behalf of the board, on personal behalf. I just need to point something out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112213	Wait a minute, we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I asked if the committee's rapporteurs would take the floor? So now they have the right to speak out to the representatives of the board and then a representative of the government to manifest themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112214	But the Government's representative must be apostrophe in the government's decision or opinion and Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112215	Wait a minute, this way we can't all run a session because then we're gonna make a circus here from the Parliament. Wait a minute, I'll give you an explanation. [[Intruder: So.]] The government gave, the proposal came, the government gave an opinion On that suggestion. [[Intruder: Exactly.]] The applicant has made an amendment to his own proposal. A representative of the government will be manifested in relation to the amendment later. Do you understand now? It is. Here you go. Deputy Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112216	To explain briefly, it means we have a deal. There is no objection to this new harmonised proposal by Mr. Hrg and is accepted entirely as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112217	I'm opening a debate now. We'd have to go clubbing now, if that's okay with Mr. Mesic, and it's okay with me. Then, on behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112218	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in 10 days it will just be to say the anniversary of the events that took place in the assembly of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the old Yugoslavia or first of all the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians that this was the name when in the assassination of the great Serb exponent Punja Racic, not only Stjepan Radic was killed, or wounded first, and later on August 10th and died of wounds received in the Belgrade Assembly. Among them were Mr. Pavle Radic, Djuro Basariček, Grandža and others. So this event, which was sung in our folk songs, we also know throughout Slavonia, Dalmatia, Croatian Zagorje, and after that not only because of this act of robbery and large-serb aggression expressed back in 1928, was to say in some way those martyrs of Croatia who were wounded or killed in the Belgrade Assembly in our folk songs. They've actually become legends. Here in our hallway here in the Croatian Parliament here in the lobby we have the monument of Stjepan Radić not only because of this but because of all the works and therefore the authorship of many sayings spoken in our Croatian folk language unpastified completely original, original thoughts, so one great Croatian peasant leader, Stjepan Radić. Not to quote now, since I have read more as a member of the HSS work of the Radic brothers, I am not ashamed of it although my colleague Zgrebec is laughing at it, but I will never keep it secret or deny it, so I was a member of the HSS, and I read the works of the Radic and Stjepan Radic brothers very carefully, statements and all the politics that were raised by the Croatians at the time. So within possible. Not to mention the thought of Croatian intelligence, that the one that is salt bread is the intelligence of Croatia, not to mention what the bat bell is that intelligence to Croatians and Croatia. Not to mention that statements about education where Croatian schools should not only be educational institutions but first of all, the educational institution and today after 100 years we are dealing with and making curricula about it and emphasising the family in the first place, as did Stjepan Radić and the entire team around the then leadership of HSS. So, first of all, I do not understand that until 10 June 2015, this significant day in Croatian history, which was sung in folk songs, we have authors unknown, but they sang it carefully, described it so deeply, and I will not say it has changed but has directed Croatian history and the future of Croatia, so this event that killed the leader of HSS terribly, that here we are today, 25 years after our freedom to create an independent, free Croatian state, we are discussing it. So there's no talking or talking about the HDSSB and I personally having one word against this proposal. The only thing I would possibly do in this amendment that Mr. Hrg has made on the very motion for a decision, which may be called the Day of Remembrance of Croatian June victims. Now we can discuss it, so there in that assembly to Stjepan Radic, as far as I know and the description of the event was sitting and Mr. Pribicevic was not shot at. That's right. They were in the coalition, so no one could misread me, especially Mr Horvat, so they were in the coalition but no shot was sent to Mr. Pribičević. Therefore, we can freely say that these are Croatian June victims and the murder of Stephen, or the wounding of Stjepan Radic, which later ended in view of the progress or lack of advanced medicine and lack of knowledge of antibiotics, etc., could have ended differently in '28. But then we know that penicillin was invented only in '41. By '45. Mr. Fleming's age. So the HDSSB will have no objection to this, on the contrary, we think it is a little late or too late to mark this date as proposed in the law, so on the day of memory on June 20th and eighth, so also on June's victims, Croatian June victims, and we can later discuss and say, we know who this refers to in the case of those who were wounded and killed in the Yugoslav Parliament in the 20th and eighth years. We also know that after that, King Alexander declared it because of the problem in the country's parliament on January 6th or January, as one puts the dictatorship. At school we studied senior January 6th but well, now it's called January 6th dictatorship. So we're not talking about history here anymore, and I'm not wasting your time on the HDSSB Club is in any event to declare the day of remembrance on June 20, 1928. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112219	On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are extremely pleased at the HDZ Club that a year later a proposal came to remind all of us of a sad historical event that is not in itself one gesture, one assassination but also a particular political symbol of a historical time, that is, the way of political action in the old Yugoslavia. And in this sense, we must say that the HDZ Club will absolutely support this proposal and we are glad that here also the promoter in his opening statement explained that there have been some adjustments, that there has been an amendment and that it will be corrected on the date. But before I go back to it, I'll still allow myself Mr. Vice President to explain what I've been trying to say. So, the proposal submitted by Mr Hrg a little less than a year ago, the Government gave an opinion on which she said she proposed one other date and, in her opinion, the explicits cited who would represent the competent Ministry of Culture in the work of the Assembly bodies or meetings. After that, there was a satisfactory solution and a satisfactory joint review between the esteemed applicant and the ministry as far as we could hear the consultation, and the amendment was proposed in this regard. If the government's representative is not apostrophe in the government's opinion, then the amendment that is under way is presented during the vote. In that sense, it was my object, Mr. Vice President. It's lucky we can all agree on this. What is important to say about the historical work of Stjepan Radić and the whole of this political circle that gathers around the Croatian Peasant Party in the time of the 20s and 30s is important that we in some way shed light on and honor and political action, the formation of political national thoughts that we then had here in the space of today's Republic of Croatia, but also beyond the space of the Republic of Croatia. The exceptional influence was the Croatian Peasant Party in the area of today's Bosnia and Herzegovina, so all the way to Boka Kotorska, so you can see if you look at the historical photographs of the funeral of the gentleman, the late Stjepan Radic, that they were delegations from Boka Kotorska so in fact Slovenia, which united a particular political thought that was being represented in Croatia at the time. It is wrong to think that it was based only on policies related to agrarian and the village. In fact, it was a civil policy of that time, in the right sense, which it very much reflected because when you look again at how many cultural societies in the Croatian village were launched during that period, how open the national reading rooms were, how much cultural activities were launched during that period of the Radic brothers' political action, then you will see that it is true, so we can also say from today's point of view to the civil political scene. It would be completely wrong if the government insisted on the proposal to make that Memorial Day August 8th. This would in some ways reduce the very weight of the political assassination that took place in the Belgrade Assembly, and in some ways the other Croatian representatives who were in society and who were either killed on the scene or were seriously injured. It is also interesting here that the proposer quoted and mentioned the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. One of the programming bases of precisely informing the first programmes and programming documents The Croatian Democratic Community as one of them was the action of Stjepan Radic, which is part of it based on that part, and this is what the late President Tudjman repeatedly pointed out, spoke publicly about, and also in the programming documents made it clear and pointed to this link, which in some way gave a continuity despite the fact that there was a great time gap of over 50 years, but about the continuity of certain political work. In that sense, it is good that this initiative is being launched. Here, I will also add once again that in all the saints, I must point out, very often you could see President Tudjman coming to Stjepan Radić's grave and laying a crown, in some ways wanting to honor and sacrifice, as well as the political action of Mr. Stjepan Radic. Here, in this sense, the HDZ Club will, of course, support this proposal. We hope so, too, that he will be unanimous. And in that sense, we thank our distinguished colleague, Mr. Hrg, for launching this initiative. I have already said that it would not have been good if the government's opinion had been put forward on the first proposal and in some ways said that it might have put an emphasis on the assassination. You know, those who often quote those sentences that history is a teacher of life, I think it certainly makes sense just to give an assassination. Because it wasn't an assassination of man alone, it was an assassination of democracy, it was an assassination of the equality of the people within such a state organisation, it was an assassination of parliamentaryism. All the consequences stemming from this were of course not harmless and actually resulted and showed the continuity of a dangerous policy that resulted in ultimately and aggression against the Republic of Croatia and the Homeland War related to the defence of the Republic of Serbia as a result of the Serbian aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112221	Okay, thanks. Before we move on to replicas one brief explanation. You are likely to refer to article 201, which says that the amendment is being declared by the Proposer and Government if it is not the legislator. But we also have Article 223(3), which says: "The Government's representative, when he is not proposing, may speak for 15 minutes at the beginning of the debate in the opening statement, and on each occasion of an explanation during the debate when he receives the word for 5 minutes." The Government Proposer can therefore discuss both the proposal and the amendment within that item of the agenda. Therefore, I understand your remark as well-intentioned but only enough to know about the future. Here we are now not deciding on amendments, but we are having a debate on the text of the bill and the Government's representative, of course, has the right to say both about the text of the law and the amendment submitted which is an integral part of that proposal. And now we move on to the replicas of your exposure. First, the esteemed vice president of the House of Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112222	Thank you very much. Well, about Stjepan Radic, or the Radic brothers, have a positive attitude, I would say all parties in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Social Democrats in their political programme also call for the Republican idea of Stjepan Radic. Therefore, nothing is disputed about this. But in fact, I have applied for the replica because of this, my colleague Mesic, which was not necessary for you to say in this way whether a representative of the government has the right to speak because you are probably calling for that Mr. Kaimovic is not listed in the government's opinion. It does not have to be declared on the amendment, given that the government is not a proposing. The proposer is a colleague of Hrg's who has given the amendment before the debate and is not being discussed, he is an integral part of his proposal. The Deputy Minister of Culture has only confirmed here that the Government and the Proposer have agreed on a date, so in that sense, the correction of the government's opinion itself, and not that the amendment has been declared because he is not the proposer. Therefore, if the Government is not a proposing, it cannot even be stated on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112223	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112224	Dear Madam Vice President, I have listened carefully to your line, and I am glad you said that your party is also invited to act as Stjepan Radic on the basis of the program. If what you said is true, and I want to trust you, then it's completely unclear why last time in your opinion the Government has instructed the names of who will plead on this issue. And if this is exactly what you said, then the government doesn't need to do it in its documents anymore when it's not the proposer to quote it. I don't mind that the Honorable Deputy Minister is speaking and it's not disputed, I wanted to point out with this something else, which is that certain legislative proposals or proposals for decisions coming from opposition deputies stand for a year and a half more and then of course these opinions that have been delivered to them in some way since no longer Minister Zlatar-Violic is the culture minister that is the new minister, that the new deputy wanted to apostrophe with it. Well, if you'd already wanted to get me to the finish line, which wasn't my goal, but here you offered me your line, so in that sense, if what you said was true, then it was completely unnecessary and for the first time in the government's view to name names.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112225	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112226	Thank you very much. You spoke of the thoughts and writings of the late President Tudjman when it came to Stjepan Radic and his positive thoughts about his republic and his freedom. So that's where I totally agree. When you spoke about the consequences of this assassination and politics of the Republican, democratic, politics of the Croatian Peasant Party at the time, and you said that both in the elections and in other republics, here is now the former Yugoslavia's idea passed. So here are some data that I have and that I know of, and even in Šumadia, in some municipalities, the Croatian Peasant Party won the elections at the time. And in the fight with the strongest party, so radicals in Serbia, so from Pasic to Seselj, there was one here to say vertical, and then they tried to confront the Croatian peasant party, so he was a teller, there was no commercial and these lights and I don't know, so the Tellal went to the villages in Bosnia and yelled for the radicals, so "Shucur Allah shall vote for Spa," "Who shall vote for the Cat wait for a bit?" Nevertheless, in many municipalities in the current Bosnia and Herzegovina, the HSS won, and that eventually resulted in the Banovina of Croatia, which is to say some unspeakable dream of many of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112227	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112228	So it is clear, so I say well that there has been this amendment because that shot was not simply said murder, but that shooting and shooting in the Assembly were in some way a shooting in parliamentaryism and in any democratic principle and in any right of the Croatian political people as the well-respected representative of the Croatians said. If, at that time, the HSS as such, as the strongest party, has articulated. How much in this sense, in fact, the HSS was what I wanted to say both the civil and Croatian and democratic option also shows that there were later political coalitions with Pribičević and these things where they could in a certain way show how, honestly, well in co-existence, to develop political life and country and the political people that you represent. It's kind of overrun and rooted political coalitions and in a way it should also... These shootings that were before that, what I said, here I thank my colleague but I don't know, I wanted to say to the political in HSS were, of course, shots to prevent all of this and it turned out that smart politics could, and that's what President Tudjman wanted to pull out of the Radic brothers' political action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112229	The last replica of Ivana Posavec the guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mesic, you have moved me to the replica exactly in the context of the high home where we are. Here in the Croatian Parliament are the key decisions for the historical definition of the Republic of Croatia as it is today. It was in this high house that representatives of Croatia met in Belgrade after what happened in the National Assembly and actually discussed and discussed the future of Croatia here in 1928. It was right here that important decisions were made that determined how you said it yourself to civil Croatia. And then on a very significant date 22.12.1904. when the Antun and Stjepan Radic brothers created the then Croatian folk peasant party in their foundations she had this civic thought, that civic idea. It was that date, many years later, that proved to be the fate date for the adoption of the first Croatian Constitution. In fact, what I wanted to say and relate to my colleague Grubisic, here in the Croatian Parliament on the one hand stands the statue of Stjepan Radić and on the other hand stands the statue of Ante Starčević. On the statue of Stjepan Radic, they write three words "Freedom, humanity and justice."". "Freedom, humanity and justice" are words excluded from Stjepan Radic's speech in 1918. Then he spoke of Republican freedom and the humanity of social justice. These are the foundations that all together as parliamentary parties are heritage today in Croatia and I think for all of us who may know little more about Croatian national history it is very important that this decision be reached unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112231	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112232	So I agree with my colleagues with everything you've said, I'll just remind you that something else was said by the late Stjepan Radic in 1918 about entering certain, you know probably about the geese and the fog. In that sense, he was obviously not forgiven, so he may unfortunately have come to an end as tragically as this. He would probably have a lot to say about Croatia's political life. But here I absolutely agree with you for saying that you can expect to make this decision unanimously and absolutely think you've said it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112233	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected Dubravko Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112234	I thank the Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues here today we are gathered here today, as my colleague Hrg said in the assembly to support the proposal of Mr. and colleagues of Hrg and to announce on 20 June the day of his memory of Stjepan Radic and the June sacrifice. Here we started to talk quite simply about Stjepan Radić, who is actually a Croatian political colossus and an extremely complex political person who has acted for many years. During this long period of years, he often found himself in a position to adapt his opinion to the context in which he lives and in which he operates, and that is why it is really very important for Stjepan Radić to speak thoroughly, thoroughly and thoroughly because he really is one of the foundations of Croatian political thought. This 20th June we hope to adopt is a unanimous day of memory of Stjepan Radic and of the June victims. I am pleased that this proposal has been agreed, which will at the same time remind us of this unpleasant event that took place in Belgrade for the Croatian people, but will further apostrophe and Stjepan Radic as the main politician of that time, but not only that time but also those times that preceded that life final of his '28, and therefore I think it is in the right way that this name of this memorial day that I hope we will all mark. On the other hand, I am pleased to speak here on behalf of the SDP club because in 1908 Stjepan Radic gained his first parliamentary term in Ludbreg and repeated his breeds in 1910. Therefore, in front of the city of Ludbreg, there is the mention of Stjepan Radic with his pointed words that "it is not enough to stand among the people, it should be among the people and remain" which many politicians unfortunately forget today. Stjepan Radic, as I have already pointed out, is a really complex person, he is also a reformist, a reformer, he is a polyglot. He spoke almost all the Slavic languages. His wife was Czech, or Slovak, he entered among Czech writers, published a whole, whole series of works, and thus owed the Croatian political thought, the Croatian economic thought, it must not be forgotten, but he is also the first politologist. He is the first Croatian politician because he finished his studies in Paris because he had a bunch of difficulties in his schooling that were due to his character which he inherited from his mother who was also rebellious to say so and had this line of justice, feelings for people's justice and people's justice that Stjepan Radić had turned into this fundamental feature of his action, which is social sensitivity and pacifism. These are the basics of his early political work but also later. In fact, it's absurd that this man who believed only in peace, only in the peaceful resolution of all conflicts, suffered in such a way. When Stjepan Radic began his activities, Croatia was a 90% rural or rural state, a dominant peasant state. We must remember that during the earlier period Radic's activities were in force, so to speak, it was an old-time political dogma or ideology that excluded these lower layers and intellectualized the Croatian political scene. Stjepan Radic saw the greatest power in the country at that time in the Croatian people, but not only in agriculture, labour must not be forgotten. For him, these were two consistent terms and his entire political engagement led to the awareness and inclusion of these layers in the active political life of Croatia, no matter what historical moment and in which historical environment they were at the time. What Hrg also mentioned in his explanation is that today we think of Stjepan Radic as a part of the conversation. Here is my colleague Mesic and Madam Vice-President, who said that his basic thoughts are embroiled almost in the work of all political parties who want to work on democratic principles, which want to promote peace and social sensitivity as a fundamental task of every political activity. And for this reason, it is right to talk about Stjepan Radic as the first Croatian social politician to have so far been woven into the entire Croatian political space. What is Stephen Radic's legacy today? These are certainly also HSS as a political party that has been acting since 1904 continuously with minor changes in names and with small breaks in action. But what is even more important in his political legacy is not only street names, the squares that many today carry, many settlements throughout Croatia but also outside Croatia. These are not only the names of companies that promote the Croatian word throughout the continents where the Croats exist and work, they are not only revolutionary plantings to say so, because in our neighborhood up in Kalnik they also acted in the Second World War two brigades that bear the name of Stjepan and Antun Radic, this is one complex legacy. But what seems to me to be missing today is his insistence on consistent pacifism, social justice and respect for democracy and democratic principles in the work of every government. He fought all the time for these principles, and in that fight he was also in the congregation here on June 20th and died but not only him, although the bullets were intended mainly for him but also for his associates. That is why the SDP will support this harmonised proposal because we think that the political tradition of Stjepan Radic should in any case live in Croatian social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112235	Thank you. A respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, has applied for an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Does the proposer's representative want the closing statement? Yeah. Here you go, dear Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am going to say that I am very pleased with these short discussions of yours that have been because there is not much to say here is not an hour of history. I'll say now that it's never too late for my colleague Grubisic to say that it's too late that it happens so many years later, it's never too late if it's not done before, it's good to do it now. And I am honored to be part of the people who will make this decision. Otherwise, the initiative and the idea began with a scientific set of historians about 110 years of HSS held last year in Križevci, there were about 35 historians, publicists, scientists who spoke and then in a free conversation, they pointed to the problem of why it was not defined somewhere by a decision that the Croatian Parliament still marked that day. What Mr. Mesic was saying, I will say that it was a shooting in Croatia at the time, and that was the case and that should not be debated in particular. It was, of course, something later on, something good was born on that victim, and we just have to put it as a done deal, we always have to mark it, mark it, we have to bow down to that same victim. I am glad and grateful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that here are the two different proposals that have actually come to a common solution and there is really no reason, no reason to share around these great names of Croatian history in any way. Thank you to all those who have debated and who have supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112237	I thank the promoter, thank the Deputy Minister, all the representatives who participated in the debate. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112238	The motion for a decision to declare the Memorial Day on 20 June 1928 was tabled by a respected representative, Branko Hrg. The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. The applicant submitted the amendment within the business period and became an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 95 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and no one against, was decided to declare the Memorial day on 20 June 1928, in the text proposed by the motion, together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112239	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a strategy for public administration development for the period 2015 to 2020; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. When adopting the Strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Even if he wants, he can't because he's gone. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Grubisic and Cain signed up. They're not there either, they're losing their rights. Nikola Vuljanic reported on behalf of the Independent Left-wing Club. Here's to the pay phone, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd say Mr. Minister, but he's gone, and there's obviously no one from the Ministry that surprises me because this is the document we've been waiting for for for a long time, and here I was just saying that he's gone, he's got it, it's a document that we've been waiting for for a long time, and a document that's well done. When the minister comes, we can also praise him. It's important to think strategically, the state can't run ad hoc, the state can't be led by unbound moves, which are not coordinated with each other, and that's why strategies need to be drawn up. The strategies are mostly done shortly before you come to power. So then you have a picture of what you want to achieve, you have a strategy, within that strategy you develop tactics, individual moves and you spend four years. We get this strategy at the end of the term. Well, when there's no better, that's good. However, the question is who will implement the strategy. Will we succeed in making such an important issue a consensual position and saying that this is exactly what we all want to do, so no matter who will be in power tomorrow and he will implement it. I've been waiting for it in Croatia for 25 years and I haven't even welcomed it yet. Every time the government changes first what happens, the new government emptys the drawers in the trash and fills the drawers with some kind of paper. I would be extremely sorry to see that happen with this strategy. The strategy was designed so that it took the truth for the starting points. What is the public administration in the Republic of Croatia today? Inefficient, not working. Work slow or nothing. It needs to be improved. Uncoordinated. Some segments, both vertically and horizontally, however you go, have nothing to do with each other. They are inconsistencies even to the level of lack of computer software or applications that would be compatible, not to mention the compatibility of the heads and compatibility of the officers. She's politicized. The public administration, both state and regional and local, of all authorities so far has been seen as part of the war prey. We've won the election, so we've won the war, and now it's our right to move our people everywhere we think it's necessary. The results are ahead of us, around us and inside us, and we all live these results and we don't like them. Is it possible to discuss this topic, therefore, on the development and development strategy of the public administration, and not mention at all the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia and the necessary, yet necessary needs of the change of the structure. I think those two things are intertwined and difficult to separate. We call that part of the state public and state administration. In some countries it is called public administration, public administration, or public services, which is not bad. It's not a bad thing to change software not in computers, in heads and officers and their bosses. What we call local, regional and state administration is service and these people are officials there, we call them, we call them that. They are civil servants, deputies, they serve and service should be served, not run by us. The government is in charge, we chose the government in the election. The government has a mandate because the people gave her a mandate to manage everything in the state, but no one chose the officers, the officials were employed to serve and therefore to serve. That software that people are at counters, tables, offices, and where they are already serving those who come to them because they pay for them. This software is something that has never been brought to life here for a very simple reason, these people who did this work on behalf of the king of Austria and the Emperor, on behalf of the king of Yugoslavia, on behalf of another Tito, were doing the work of government and government and they ruled over the people. Now, it shouldn't be like that today, if we live in a democratic society, then it's not and it can't be like that. This should be reflected before and above all in the competences of the people who do these jobs. This strategy speaks a lot about education, how people should be educated in order to be able to do the job, but not only on this, but also on the consequences of inaction or bad behavior. We've heard here a couple of times that out of all the government officials reported, local, regional, eight of them, this far across the country has been found guilty and punished in some way. No one else. So is it possible that out of those tens of thousands, only eight of them were able to make such a mistake that they had to be punished? It's kind of amazing. The Digital Administration is the goal of this Strategy, i.e. to digitise and enable and manage to work at that level and to allow citizens in a digital way to come into contact with services, officials and their needs, and that is definitely something that needs to be done. There is no reason that a nation like Croatia cannot do it, and countries like Ireland or the UK can do it. There's no reason for me to wear 12 different cards in my pocket to prove 12 different things, and now I'm going to get a new electronic card with which I'm going to be able to prove one thing, that I'm alive and that I'm called what I'm called. There is no reason to do so except that these databases and systems in various parts of the country are incompatible or incompatible. And why are they like that? Well, because every ministry had its own supplier who was buying software, who was doing their apps, so everyone did it on their side, and that dear God couldn't agree more than to delete everything together and create a new system. Of course it's worth it, but of course it has to be done. This is also related to the question of access to information. Citizens in a system like this today, the system of administration that works today has no other option but to come to the counter or write a letter or an email or something like that and tell me please give me that information. So citizens have to pray for information, and the information should be clear and accessible, all the people they can come to, and they can come, which is not a military secret, and I don't know what other secret. Contact administrations with citizens are being conducted today at dozens, hundreds or thousands of places. Whatever you need, wherever you come, that's gonna send you to that other place where there's some paper that he needs to give you that paper you need. Sometimes in this House I remember one thing about seven, eight, nine years ago talking about that stop shop for entrepreneurs. I think the citizens of Croatia deserve to have such a stop shop, i.e. That I can come to the state administration with my I.D. number, say good day, I need that. And the state administration then from the counter to the counter, from the office to the office, get the documents you need, if you need them at all, and have fun with each other. A citizen shouldn't date them. There's also a problem of insanity. We make daily, or each week we make dozens of laws. Some of them directly concern citizens and the functioning of citizens and administrations, some of them in accordance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, and some of them are not. So what now? There's a poor citizen with three laws that don't comply with the main law, he doesn't know where he's going, and he's got no one to help him. That madness should be considered. Some European countries have also established offices for cutting and cutting laws. Maybe it's time we did that. All this together brings us to the problem of the stability of the legal system, i.e. equality before the law. Are we all equal before the law, are we all equal before the administration, in front of the administration that governs us, which does not serve us. This strategy is made according to all the regulations and methodologies that a man can only praise, it is created systematically, clean and even nice to read as let's say normal reading. Of course we'll accept it, and how and who will spend it, we'll see after autumn. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112241	On behalf of the Proposer. And I'm sorry, we'll do the replicas first. Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112242	Here is a distinguished colleague Vuljanić, in your presentation you mentioned that this strategy did not mention the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, which is not true because to a extent 17.2 writes to determine the optimal territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, but also writes a deadline for the implementation of the third quarter of 2018 and the necessary resources will be determined later. So this is the problem, otherwise, of this strategy that all its consequences go from 2016 to 2020. As for the territorial structure as well as public administration reforms, you call for consensus. It is always a good solution, but it is not good when the consensus is set as an alibi for not making decisions and not implementing reforms. If there is a consensus that is excellent, but if it is not the government that won the elections, the government that has received citizens' trust should implement reforms, decisions should be made. A team more if these reforms were part of the plan that led to the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112243	Replication response, dear Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112244	Thank you. Of course it's mentioned territorial structure inside, but it's only mentioned, it's not even created by the idea of how the territorial structure could change. As far as the consensus is concerned, I am not for consensus as a rule, but for compromises. Consensus could be reached about accepting the strategy, but there is no consensus in the implementation of the strategy. There are compromises in the implementation of the strategy, and then there is a government, of course, that makes a decision whatever it is, so that to insist on all the decisions we make is, of course, impossible and of course, an alibi that nothing is done because no government has ever done so before, and it will not be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112245	Another replica, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112246	My colleague Vuljanić, I have answered the line to correct one of your data that you have presented because I find it quite dangerous that data that are not correct from the Croatian Parliament, is then accepted on fertile soil in part of the citizens and the media and create the wrong picture. Let me explain right now and why. I had the opportunity to listen several times to a politician who claims to be a minister in the new government and who recently said that 30 thousand officials and tenants should be fired in local self-government. And from this strategy, I found information that 13 638 employees and tenants were employed in the entire local and regional self-government. Namely, you said only 8, fired 8 of the approximately 100 thousand civil servants and tenants. It is not good, then, that there is a message that there are 100 thousand civil servants and tenants in Croatia because there are 56 220. And that exaggeration in the numbers that we easily eject then really creates one, based on incorrect or unverified data, one false image. So it's going to turn out if we multiply these numbers so much that in public and local self-government, millions of people work if we don't stop somewhere and we don't read the numbers we have ahead of us. That's why I'm warning you of the numbers, whether they're right or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112247	Did you get that? ... You haven't answered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, answer this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112248	Of course the number is 56,000 and so much, you have the right colleague Lesar. It could still be associated with various officials in public enterprises, public administrations, etc. But it doesn't matter. It is important that in Croatia these people do not have too many. If we compare the figures in France, for example, in Germany, there are fewer people in the public administration in Austria. It's not a joke in number, it's a joke in efficiency, it's a joke if these people are doing their job so that citizens are satisfied, not in numbers. So firing isn't really an option. The option is to function the administration and the option is to change software because these people didn't come because God set them up but because someone pays them to do the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112249	On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk, 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This strategy is the result of the work of a broad circle of people who ultimately contributed to obtaining a positive opinion from the GSV, therefore both trade unions and employers, to gain a positive opinion from the Croatian Community of Countys, Association of Cities and Associations, to get a positive opinion from the European Commission and ultimately to get both a positive opinion and most of the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary committees, at least according to their statement at the meetings of the committee at which this text was discussed. Any strategy adopted under the Europe 2020 Programme, which covers the period until 2020, will be implemented by at least 3 governments in Croatia, which is now, the one that will be after the next elections and the one that will be after the next elections because by the end of 2020 we will have another parliamentary election because the mandate is so long. This strategy is ideologically colorless and indeed there is no room for ideological discussions and bickering over the very text of the strategy. The strategy is based on 3 chapters. One concerns the provision of public services or as we called it processes. Therefore, the first part of the strategy comes from the process and defines, among other things, what are biographical or administrative obstacles and these are all steps and elements in the actions of public-legislative bodies that create unnecessary use of public administration resources as well as public service users. So, when we define and identify and locate and transfer unnecessary processes to the impostery, we will have less need to upset officials than Mr Vuljanic said. That's how we rationalize the administration. This section also discusses access to information as one of the significant elements of transparency and information as one tool that facilitates the conduct and availability of public services to those who, therefore, want to access public services through the information system. The second part concerns human potentials, where competences, employment, evaluation, rewarding and advancement are analysed, the system pays as one topic that I remember as the opposition representative where I discussed in 2010, and since then has not changed much in that part. Then the part about ethics and the part about education. As far as human potential is concerned, the fact is that when we compare ourselves with other European countries, the Republic of Croatia has neither a bulky nor a large public administration. The public administration includes both health and education and everything that receives money from the budget. The fact is that when we look at the population and the total number of employees that we do not bounce from the European average, there is a surplus in certain segments, as is certain that there is a lack of people in certain segments, and especially specific educations. And the third part of the strategy concerns the most political part, i.e. the public administration system in which we touch the state administration, and then legal persons with public powers that have been raised in particular in the process of joining the Croatian EU and which are now in place and which represent a significant part of our public administration system. Then local and regional self-government and mutual relations between public administration authorities. The greatest advantage and lack of this strategy is that it does not really state what an optimal territorial reconstruction or formation of the Republic of Croatia is, which means it retains the possibility that what we now have is optimal. Among other things, because there is no political consensus on this, and this is a large political decision within neither the political party nor among the parties, therefore, in the political arena. Therefore, I believe that no strategy that would explicitly define a territorial structure could pass in this broad support Assembly, and in this way at least there is some possibility that we could agree on the possibility of establishing an optimal territorial structure. Well, then if it's determined that this is the best possible, then nothing will cost us a reshuffle because we won't do anything about it. A significant part also includes a part concerning functional and fiscal decentralisation that we have discussed with associations of cities, municipalities and counties. Finally, as regards the implementation of the strategy, we have defined, among other things, the parliamentary control of the implementation of the strategy within one of the existing parliamentary bodies, and we have defined the extension of the powers of government coordination to implement this strategy. And as the executive body concerned with implementation of the strategy, we have defined the government president's office as a key political body which can therefore in the best way coordinate with the work of different ministries that should work in this strategy. And I'm ready to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112251	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we will speak, and I'm sorry, we have one replica of the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said the public administration wasn't big and it wasn't big. We just have to think about what we're talking about and how citizens perceive what it is to be a public administration. Because it definitely doesn't work the way it should and certainly should make some moves and make strategic decisions as it's turned, as it's run. What happens to me here, I don't know, I couldn't find it, so you might even explain it better if the flow within the public administration is one of the strategic points, whether the flow of officials is possible in some concept to simply encourage activities and people working in public administration. I'm always saying that there must be most of the people who want to work in the public administration, it's just the thing that we've made it possible for them to work. And I think that, in addition to this reform strategy, public administration should also adopt a strategy on the adoption of new laws that would be enforceable. Because those who work in the public administration today know that public administration officials, especially local ones, are just writing some kind of report. Today, 40% of the time of the local self-government staff comes down to the fact that you keep writing some kind of report, you don't have time to create anymore, you don't have time, you don't have time to create anything, you don't have to propose, you're constantly being asked for reports. Probably some public administration again, probably some new clerk from another level. So that's our big problem, and we have to try to solve these things. So it is impossible under current Croatian laws to assess the work of the public administration at all because it as well as the whole of the state is definitely because of the bad laws, the non-implementable laws are blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112253	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112254	As for glamour and perception, Mr. Lesar mentioned these several urban legends in response to the replica. And it's not 100,000 employees. It's fifty. In the public sector, when we add state-owned companies to around 400 thousand people, in public administration about 250, there are public services, and it is up to us that, 400 public administrations plus state-owned companies, everything that is somehow connected to the state. The budget pays about 250 grand. So these are figures that are comparable to all other countries, and that's why the word grotesque maybe I can't accept. And of course it's up to us to talk about what numbers these are. As far as flow is concerned, if you think that you can move from one body to another, that is, already there is a possibility, if you mean leaving the service and entering the service of some other facts is that in that part it is something more difficult than in the private sector which can be and the reason that independence is somehow kept from politics. Which can be good or bad, not in unequivocal terms. And that's where some mechanisms are really planned to be made. And as for work and process, so exactly what I was saying about processes, it really doesn't take so many writing reports that people can't deal with something that we recognised in the strategy as professional creative work. So we recognize different types of jobs, one is professional creative jobs, so they create policies, the other are classic administrative jobs, so people who make solutions and implement certain laws and the third are horizontal functions that support everything that can work. And indeed, the goal is to increase people from highly creative and reduce the share of horizontal jobs in public administration. That's what the strategy in this section recognizes. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112255	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that after your last presentation, I am much more pleased than before. In your speech, you have discovered a well-preserved secret, which is the date of holding parliamentary elections, explaining to us that the two Governments' mandate other than this will be affected by this strategy that you are proposing today. Which means we don't have to complain about the facts and some announcements that the elections will only be next year, because if that were to happen then if I were to count correctly, we wouldn't catch three but only two governments. But if you've had a government mandate to say that it's encouraging news to us anyway. Secondly, I also like that you've evolved a little bit in your positions since you were a parliamentary representative, you've felt what executive authority means, so now it's your correct information that our public administration and then the state administration is not too big a deal, that it can be compared to similar services in other countries and that we're not really specific about something here. However, we are talking about this material that you said was praised, although the media do not carry it that way, I have seen other assessments and legal experts, and even GONG who addressed us to support this strategy. I will tell you what we think are the remarks you should consider when you come to the Croatian Parliament with a document like this. First of all, according to our Constitution, there are only two strategies adopted by the Croatian Parliament, one is the Strategy of National Security, the second document is the Strategy of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and nowhere in the Constitution nor in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament mentions that a document which would be called the Strategy can be brought without these first two mentioned in the Constitution. They are likely to be taxed for a certain reason. And so far, the Parliament has brought strategies that were not these two and the question of whether or not we have violated the provisions of the Constitution, or whether we have the right to extend our jurisdiction to our satisfaction. But if we even take it as an excuse that the Parliament has brought in other strategies so that this document is still called so, I will say that it looks a little like a tourist guide to me and mostly for foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? At the beginning of your strategy is a term, something that defines the concepts you have worked out in your strategy. And that in itself wouldn't be so terrible because you define all of us the unknown term "claud," it's a cloud model that allows network access to shared computer resources on demand. We still have some English but that's less important than what I wanted to say about that term. You have defined in your terms what civil servants are, and then what is an electronic service, so what is public administration, which is public service, which is a public interest, who is a public employee, which is coordination, which is comitology, which is a municipality, city, county, and these are terms defined by laws, and these are specific laws that regulate certain matter. There was no need for these terms, and especially if you did not fully define them you define this strategy. But, of all things, I have to admit, there's a budget for the impact assessment of the regulations on this, and we're going to have, in particular, an indication, a submission to a particularly interesting term, and these are sensitive jobs. Sensitive jobs are those exposed to corrupt risk as well as other risks of illegal or unethical behaviour. Here the author really had one literary freedom from which he should be stopped when working on documents that come before the Croatian Parliament. A term like this would be best if you pulled out of this strategy and never suggested it again. Your critics and our critics, I will address my colleagues, unfortunately they are not there, because they have pollemized with me when I was also not on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, my colleague Pupovac told him that it is not clear how it is possible for opposition MPs not to participate in the work of that committee, and it is such an important document that he even gave a special picture, it is a document showing how much he loves Croatia. Of course, today, when the document is in the plenary session of fellow Pupovac, I have no need to explain to him why HDZ representatives were not at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, but I will also tell him to all of you, and what purpose. At all the sessions we have attended and proposed changes in materials most often proposed by the Government to the Croatian Parliament, no one has ever been accepted. Well, if you don't accept proposals on boards, you won't accept it at the plenary session, either, we have a chance for this important document, which again ad hoc came to the plenary session, of course in the afternoons when our citizens are probably already satisfied with the debates in the Parliament, about this important document when we talk at the plenary session, then those who hold that too important document didn't appear here, of course. Critics say that you have brought this strategy, in fact, in order to justify the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds, this is what our media has announced to you. They also say that this strategy is a dead letter on paper because there is no modus, no action plans and everything else that should be followed for the implementation of this strategy. But this strategy also suffers from some much greater shortcomings. In addition to those I have said to the formal legal nature, you say the aim is to bring development into line with Europe 2020's objectives to support the development of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic development by 2020. So then you're talking about individual measures in three of these I'd say subtypes that you're referring to in the strategy. I'd like to ask you a few questions now. If the last 3 or 4 months of the term of office of this Government are the time when you are offering a strategy by 2020 because you have not arrived so far, although some others have proposed from your resolution laws, those laws that we hold in mind that you should have proposed, you have come with a strategy that shows up as a list of good wishes, so general that it is almost impossible to discuss certain things but we can call on what you wrote. You wrote that more important implementing measures The State Administration Reform Strategy for the period 2008 to 2011, among other things, have been completed implementation of functional analysis, measures have been implemented to improve the system of public agencies, improved coordination and coordination in the work of first-degree bodies, improved the openness of the administration to users by establishing standards, established a system of assessment of the effects of regulations, implemented depolitisation and professionalisation of state services, measures have been implemented in the education and training system of civil servants. These are all praises to the government that preceded the government's Kukuriku coalition. And now our question is what you've done since you took power with these achievements you've mentioned here. You changed the laws in a way that state officials who were thrown out of a public tender that you didn't like became state officials, so they became so much-called politicians who didn't need to meet those criteria that applied to civil servants. In other words, after 2011, you again politicized the state administration. The second thing, the system of assessment of the effects of the regulations that exists within the structure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not actually exist. In addition to the financial impact of the regulations, please ask someone in the Assembly to tell you when he read some of the materials, the elaborates, which will be done in the light of demographic, sociological, institutional or environmental problems that should arise or issues that should be addressed. The impact assessment of the regulations in all these areas does not exist, nor is there any law in front of this Parliament ever seen that a systematic assessment of a law which we should pass and not only of the law can be made of these strategies. In the term of office of this government, you have conducted the centralization of the affairs of the state administration and here you are talking about decentralisation and decentralisation. Well, you're the authors of the proposal that 20 offices of the state administration come down to 5, but we don't know where they're going to be based, we don't know what they're going to be called, and then probably pressured by the problems of ruling, they decided that after two readings in a law that is meaningless to you, they don't show up at a vote in this House. So we still have according to your material, and I suppose by 2020, which he here mentions 20 offices of state administration in the county plus the city of Zagreb, not the 5 that you so pompously announced to us by your law. You have abolished the State Inspectorate and centralized all inspections at the level of the ministries. You also took what few decentralised jobs existed until then. We have brought in this mandate dear colleagues and colleagues over 80% of the laws under emergency procedure. Imagine now a further assessment of the effects of the regulations in the laws that go according to the emergency procedure from yesterday to today. We put them on the agenda yesterday, we had to vote them today. You're talking about simplifying administrative functions. In what way? That there are two degrees in the administrative procedure and that there are now no more than one degree more than two degrees of administrative trial. We have established four new administrative courts not in your term of office, unfortunately still in our term of office and the high administrative court, and you claim that four degrees will be a more effective way of resolving administrative matters than the three so far. I seriously doubt that. I have not seen on any occasion the opinion of the Ministry of Administration that you do not allow any new law to extend the jurisdiction of administrative courts because administrative courts by any new law when you deny the parties the possibility of protection in the administrative procedure you refer them to administrative disputes. That's how you build up cases in administrative courts that no one can solve. And finally, and unfortunately we don't have time because this strategy could be talked about a lot more, you're talking about schooling people. Give us an analysis of what the public administration school did that you destroyed in a way that replaced the director illegally as soon as you showed up in power. How much did that school manage to educate the staff, and what do we have in the state administration today that we didn't have before or who were educated better? And finally, according to what we've managed to count from your proposal, 260 million kuna for the time being will be applied to this strategy and you haven't entered all the costs we can expect. Such strategies better not have been seen by Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112257	We're moving on to replicas that are six. First came the honorary Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlakar, you say the Strategy for the Development of Public Administration in the Republic of Croatia is being discussed by the Assembly, although no act is foreseen to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, nor by the Constitution, nor by any law that would be the basis for its adoption here in Parliament. I would like to welcome, for example, this kind of government's move to discuss certain strategic documents, if the government were to be credible. For example, if those strategies provided for by the laws, whether by the Constitution or by laws, indeed the Government would bring them to the Parliament and the Assembly would debate them, so that certain laws such as the Law on Roads, the Law on Railways, would provide for the adoption of a transport strategy at all here in the Parliament, and the Government would bring this strategy to a meeting of the Government, and the parliamentary representatives would have no idea. For example, during the reign of Dr Franjo Tudjman, for which time many say it was authoritative, at that time the same strategy was discussed here in the Croatian Parliament for three days and now the same strategy was adopted by the Government at its session and was discussed for three minutes, and only through the report of the distinguished Mr of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister. Many of the other strategies provided for by the Environmental Protection Act, for example the Strategy for coastal and marine management, the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia which was already required under the laws proposed by the Government in the Croatian Parliament discussed in the Croatian Parliament, are neither in the plan to come or do so. And on the other hand, strategies that are not intended by any law, which are general, principled, which, as I understand from your presentation, are not necessary, we are discussing them in the Parliament. So I said, I would support the government's insistence if the government had any credibility, if it had certain criteria why certain documents such as this strategy come to the Parliament and if it would then bring to the Parliament documents which it is bound by the laws itself to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112259	Time. The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112260	Dear colleague Bačić, you have only partially touched what is the problem. There are two valuable initiatives, one is the Legislative Committee to resolve how the rules are passed properly for the future, so that this nomotechnic which is otherwise particularly highlighted in this strategy as a concept here. There is an initiative by the Vice-President of Dr. Reiner's Parliament to define the documents of strategies so that we know when we have no basis in these regulations that I have quoted, and remember how busy it was about the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, but then the authors probably forgot that at least the Rules of Procedure should be resolved so as to define how, when, under what conditions and how the strategies are brought. This strategy is a difficult document in several issues. That strategy I said how much time it allowed me, weighs 260 million kunas according to the estimated expenditures, and not all here mention what it would cost, so in some period of 4 or 5 years that it would spend towards the Minister three or towards us by then two governments, but here I guess there will be three. However, it will petrify certain things, such as the imposition of jobs and the Croatian Parliament, which will have to have a special body to monitor the implementation of such a strategy, but also the government's office as stated here, so we are talking about discharging the administration, reducing red tape, and by every law we are now increasing the same strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112261	A new replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112262	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Mlakar, it was so impressive when you said that perhaps this is one tourist guide more viewed in the notion of foreigners, but who could actually list all the remarks about this strategy in a short time. It's like you said it deserves a lot more time. But this strategy actually reminded me of the statements made by the Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who spoke if you remember while they were in opposition that they had passed a series of draft laws which unfortunately none when they came to power had implemented. That's how I look at this strategy. Why this strategy writes here that the strategy aims to ensure timely, reliable and quality public services to users and to ensure a higher standard of living for all citizens and to create a stimulating entrepreneurial climate, which is particularly highlighted... Governments of the Republic of Croatia. And this government has actually done everything in three and a half years to make it all possible for administrative, bureaucratic, repressive and tax methods not to attract any investors in the Republic of Croatia and what is attracted can be counted on the fingers of one hand. On page 27, I noticed, and this strategy is also praised, in fact, about planning and enforcement in the public administration, and it is particularly highlighted by the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. So more than 80% of the bill's proposals were passed during this government by emergency procedure. We also warned that these laws were passed without thorough analysis. One of these was the Regional Development Act, which will have unscrupulous consequences for local self-government units that already see that they have 20% to 30% less revenue in their budget. That's how this strategy works.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112263	Time. The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112264	Dear counterpart Babić, what time does not allow, given the extensive document that always comes in the afternoon to be talked about in public, simply a lack of time did not give me the opportunity to illustrate everything I said. But, for example, page 36, in defining standards, it is necessary to make every effort to reduce, remove bureaucratic barriers to fast solutions using modern technology and the minimum engagement of users in achieving their rights and interests. So we've been listening to it for 40 or 50 years. Modern, well-trained, well-paid and a few state administrations. What's the problem with this strategy that I haven't said before is the impression that someone who wrote and knows about these measures doesn't know the width of this strategy at all. Because when you read about these measures, you will see that they are, as a rule, primarily meant for civil servants, for civil service, let's do one conditioned expansion and local self-government. But they completely missed hospitals, theaters, museums. Therefore, the whole public sector which cannot be found at all in these measures nor these measures as prescribed can apply. But it's just an indication that it was going to do something just as much, let's make it a good prom material but away from the fact that you and that document can do something, and the worst of all that it represents a commitment and future governments. If Parliament brings it tomorrow, no one will be able to say that they will not apply this because it is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112265	New replica, dear Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112266	Dear colleague Mlakar, you said this strategy was a wish list. You mentioned decentralisation and talked about very important things that this strategy should in some ways be, and it really isn't. This strategy literally states that the new Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which has been applicable since 1 January 2015, requires the obligation to bring the plans of the local self-government units into line. So then mentions the anglomerations of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek while units of local self-government with a smaller number of inhabitants are still not obliged to coordinate strategic development plans. So far, a number of local self-government units with a smaller population of the town of Senja, Bakar, Otočca have developed their development strategies and have largely fulfilled them and are doing them from now on. However, the laws we have passed in particular over the past few months, which will mean in the Development Strategy, i.e. the effectiveness of the administration in the areas where we, the units of local self-government in that part, have already taken away the funds that can function normally. Of the 555 units of local self-government if we come down in this way to anglomerations being and who will be the bearers of development, we come into that situation that we had before the 1990s when these main centers here were vacuuming in themselves and money and people. And not to mention the agencies that have been up and running over the past few years. The question arises at all why DUDI for state property management or I don't know what other property we have on the ground 555 units of local self-government, when we have ministries where each in its portfolio has a certain state property that can be managed more quickly, more efficiently and rationally. I think this strategy as it is written is essentially one let's say the way you just said a good prom paper from which something can be said. to read and practically learn nothing. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112267	This replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112268	A colleague, Klaric, can learn. How could you not learn? The General Administrative Procedure Act, which has about 300 articles here, is defined by a simple extended sentence. Who needs to define in strategies what the administrative procedure is to me is not clear. What's a cloud? It's clear to me that you need to define. He appeared above the city cloud one, Dobrisa Cesaric. The wind of heights swung him, etc. Not to recite now. There's no talking about what's important. Decentralize the tasks you've centralized, which you've taken down in the ministries. The operational functions of the state administration are not tasks to be done in ministries. You need to work at the level of county, cities and municipalities and that's why as far as I understand it and you stand in your replica. It's completely out of sight. No one has first already been a commentary, no one has an emphasis in the next five years that we will redecorate the territorial structure regardless of the politically acceptable to you or the unacceptable way, and even less that we will arrange functions for the counties that you already had and wipe out, cities and municipalities differently. 80% of the jobs done today by the state administration should be done in the cities and municipalities, and not by the county, and not by the inspection services that you send from Zagreb to determine the minimum hygiene and technical conditions in Đakov. And then we all live in some air-free space, because that inspector who is God's in Zagreb isn't actually in Zagreb. He's been sitting in Djakov for 15 years, just changing the plates at the door. That's one sense of thought that lasts. Two degrees in administrative resolution where the same body makes a first-degree solution and solves by object is something we should have solved That's not what we're talking about. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] There's no talking about clouds or anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112269	A new replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112270	Dear colleague Mlakar, you warned in your debate about the timing of this strategy's adoption. I think she somewhat surprised many because a few months before the end of the government's mandate to bring this strategy, and then listen to the words of the minister who says it is for some other ministers or for some other governments it is simply questionable. Because something the minister had to do these four years probably for something. These days we find out that Plan 21 never existed, that it left nothing but cover, I guess, then something was going on. And I really tried to find out what it was all about. There is a work plan, i.e. Government Work Programme 2011/2015 And there's one part about public administration. For me, too, the most important point in that part, which has six objectives set by the minister of administration, is point 5, which says to ensure resilience to political pressures. It was really something that was constantly being spent over the last three and a half years. The SDP assured resistance to political pressures and what happened happened. Here's just one little example of how resistance worked, one e-mail. "Dear ones, we would like to inform you that on 11 March 2013 the Ministry of Economy’s website issued a public invitation for the reception of persons on professional training without the establishment of a working relationship with the Ministry of Economy for Jobs of Different Profiles. This way we invite you to inform our members who you consider to be competent and interested and to note that the deadline for the application is until 19 March and we ask you to inform us by that date again." It's the way they've developed resistance to political pressures, and it might just be best if this strategy were called somewhat shortened, let's just call it 098/477-911 for work. We all know whose phone that number is, Minister Milenić, and here it is. This is how strategies have been implemented so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112271	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112272	And now you've made a mistake with your colleague, Boric, and you've gone to another Justice Department, and we have a minister of administration here to defend this strategy. Well, I'd go back to the wording because it's something that fascinated me with my wit. You were talking about resistance to political influences, and now from these strong definitions of the cloud we talked about, e-fall I won't even talk about, and sensitive jobs, there are only two other definitions that can be applied very well. One, although not responding to the definition of the term, can be used for this idea by the Ministry of Administration or the Government – deconcentration. They seemed a little distracted when they wrote the strategy. And they'd better pull her back. Secondly, when all these definitions are mentioned in the deconcentration, I suggest that they pay particular attention to the new concept which also defined the Strategy for the Development of Public Administration – quality, mode of work and level of achievement of the objectives that meet the generally accepted standards and expectations of the users of the society as a whole. On behalf of our users, I can tell you that this is unexpectedly bad. Please don't offer us any more such documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112273	Next up, the replica of Branko Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mlakar, you mentioned the rationalization mentioned, in fact you mentioned one major centralization of public administration in this 3.5-year period behind us and there you are right. You mentioned expenses. But maybe you didn't go all the way to those costs. In fact, it would be good and normal for a citizen to come to a counter in some nearest place where there is some public administration to submit a request and to be told in accordance with some legal frameworks and time to be notified in 7, 10, 30 days that the answer will raise itself on that counter and that this part of the car inside the service. But we have a situation that we've actually made all this complicated, that actually citizens are traveling a lot more today and that citizens have expenses that no one is talking about. So today, citizens in Croatia in the 21st century at the time of informing this system travel more and spend more than they have traveled before. But it's not just that, and it costs the state more. For example, some kind of minimum wage, those 3500 kunas that people in public administration have, they've moved meanings to some other cities, they travel, they get travel expenses that haven't been up until now. And then we have a situation and we say something we've done, we've rationalized something, we've actually centralized, we've raised budget costs because it has to pay travel expenses, and we've increased citizens even more. We've complicated the system. And I agree, nothing this strategy will bring new because it's definitely being taken for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112275	The replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112276	Well, here's what I'm going to say at the end of the day, dear colleague Hrg, is that I'm with this performance that may be not serious enough and should be extremely serious, in fact, want to order? We have to go from ourselves. We've been hitting on the roughest expressions here about civil servants, the state administration, the local administration. Let's get away from ourselves, these are the documents brought by Parliament, the most legislative body of a state. What does that look like? And after these documents, we'll expect our services to work well? Well, this one who reads has to be confused, and seven days won't come to him because he doesn't know what to do with this material. The other day a man asked me about an article 10. The law on spatial planning, I don't know the laws by heart, so when he read it, it's not clear to anyone at all what it's about. The man is an architect by profession. You cannot be asked this way to have a quality state administration when the Ministry of Administration is unable to write a quality strategy. And the strategy is not that the basic service is an IT service, it is a service and help and serious people who do analysis, who know how both public services and public administration can be authors of such a strategy. This is ridiculous, this is a document that is caricature! That you explain concepts such as the quality of the Public Administration Development Strategy, and that half of the public administration did not include this document at all. You've come segmentally to settle some things, so then you've only described them nicely and unfortunately for a long time on over 170 pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112277	The last replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mlakar, can you imagine that the place of this term is written that what should have been handled by this strategy and those who are being treated by it cost the citizens of RH 42 billion kuna? In fact, there are so many salaries of civil servants, public services and employees in local, regional self-government with material costs. So 42 billion kuna and if it were written here, then simply whoever writes such a strategy would think a little bit about how much a serious document must write first of all out of respect for Croatian citizens. And that for the sake of Croatian citizens who pay and 42 billion for those who should be processed by this strategy, we are still numerically explaining to him how much that is because I think we are very often throwing numbers that have nothing to do with common sense here. Well, that's what they are. State officials and tenants somewhere around 65,000, however, when we remove the MORH, the judiciary, the judicial police, the police, customs and tax administration, we get about 8.5 thousand people from there, but that's why public services are 180,000 people and local self-government is somewhere around 13,5 thousand people. And when we're doing a strategy, then we need to start with whether citizens are happy about paying 42 billion kuna, whether they are adequately providing them with services rather than giving them imaginatives what it means. You and I remember well in 2009 and the OIB, that this OIB has functioned properly then probably a bunch of what it says in this strategy simply shouldn't because this OIB would force those who participate in it to be at the service of Croatian citizens to be at the service of those who pay 42 billion kuna. So 42 billion kunas, not this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112279	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112280	Dear fellow Shuker, you are fully aware of the financial weight of what we are talking about today, and often we turn these people into some dry figures, and then some public anger goes no matter how many times they talk to the same category of officials. We are talking about public services that are a very broad term and it is not just about what people often read to civil servants. At the cost of the budget you mentioned, I will repeat this strategy according to the estimated costs would cost 260 million kuna, the deadlines as they were usually set sometime by mid-2020, not all the costs that could result from some of these measures as listed in this genius strategy. But the fact that it's a very big question is, do we need it? You have on page 110 another chapter where the implementation of the strategy is managed. So em is being implemented, and someone else has to manage that implementation. We're hoarding administrative capacity on non-necessarily, but in non-stop matters. Someone already agrees with himself some special vision in the future of an office that will manage the implementation of strategies and will always be carried out by someone else, and we will be hoarding up a group of employees. There's a proposal for the government, so with the Prime Minister's office, we'll get the parliamentary working bodies to follow up on the development of these strategies, and we'll simply lead to a further 90% of the law being passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112281	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I mean is, every time we discuss documents that have reform characters, I ask myself, for 25 years in Croatia we're building something and then the day says now we have to reform it. This was now in this term of office of HDZ colleagues and during your term of office will be during the future term of office. We started it, you won't be a bit tomorrow, maybe a little bit the day after tomorrow, but a little bit of tomorrow's fellow Mlakar not yet. Founding ministries, funds, institutions, offices, agencies, municipalities, cities, counties is now what we need to reform. Did we misbuilding it all together, did the health system set it completely wrong, the education system that we always need to reform something? Or is there something else behind that? The pressures of various interesting lobbies that often require changes to move everything to the private market and profits. What I want at first to resent is that this document also uses foreign words, foreign expressions in a way that is the main part of the text and the Croatian meaning somewhere in the brackets instead of the other way around. So don't ever come with any document in which you use any foreign word as a basis, because it is an insult to the Croatian language. You can also type Chinese expressions in the context but also in brackets. So in Croatian we have the expression from the bottom up, from the top down, from the bottom to the top however you like. That's why you don't need English. The reasons for the problem in the public administration, the entire public administration, not for the last 3 or 4 years but for 25 years. A lack of inter-resor coordination that is sometimes stronger, sometimes weaker, sometimes not at all. This is evident from the texts of the laws, regulations, the definition of jurisdiction, conduct, supervision and cooperation. This has created problems in the functioning of the public administration and the strategy deals with this part of the problem and I think it is extremely important that this part of the apostrophe and if this strategy only makes that effect that when we determine the construction of a public administration building in Croatia will be a cross-registration we have already done very much. 2., the speed of regulation, in Croatia the laws are averaged within three days, from the working body to the vote goes about 3 to 4 days, also nothing new. In both the past and the previous term, about 80% of the laws were by emergency procedure and by those who should have and those who shouldn't have. This is, in my opinion, the second objective that the strategy should be achieved to slow down in the speed of the stampede of legislative changes and sublaws that are often made lightly by ministers and the government. The 3rd is a request for deregulation. I am well-preserved or cautious and warn that there are two extremes, over-indulgence may be ours, but also the absence of a regulatory so-called. deregulation often comes from demands and requires those who want to create a hunting ground in a blurry. The smaller the rules, they are no longer found, and those who learn more when the rules are gone are rich. Poor girl can't handle rules without rules. So I'm not a prior because it's just a reduction in regulatory quality. 4. if the strategy produces a fruit that does not seek exclusive obedience to those who do but when they are heard when they warn of something that is not good and when it is not always the bosses will not answer them and say you are not to point out the failure but to obey the rules and that these remarks will come to a political summit that makes political decisions we have already made. And most of all, the ones who don't know what they're doing and they're spending, and they want faster, better and better. The 5th operational planning set by the strategy as a condition is also possible if we stabilise the legal system and reduce the number of changes. How to plan operationally in the municipality if in the course of a year in the financial year we change the way we finance twice? Not at all. So these are the general objectives of the strategy that I want them to really succeed and not need money to implement, but political wisdom and will to do so. For users of services held by the administration, public administration, local self-government would be ideal if there were only one contact when needed. He comes in, gives up, and everything else works alone. We also reduce the points of corruption risk and costs both to the state and to that user. It's set as one of the goals. However, there is a problem that I stress, and it is either informational or IT incompatibility of the resistor. I have a feeling that often you can't take advantage of that provision of the law that says that the state must not ask citizens for the information it already owns because the different resolutions of the state administration use different programs, different databases, or that we have as many hardware and software as we have in that segment, each of our own. For the past 25 years, there has been no unique approach or thinking that they must be compatible with each other. And that's why it's a possibility to pull data, even though it's a high level of information that's not possible. One who manages to even it out, and without resistance and accusations of doing it out of his own interest, will be a genius, and it must have a strong political influence to impose it. It's interesting and I agree in one place the strategy says that computers are often used as typewriters and calculators and nothing more than that, it's a serious problem. And that's why the question of e-service, e-Citizens, and now this latest one with ID cards where we've actually found that the electronic identity card with the chip, not to mention the projects of the OIB, doesn't bring any of these existing 22 services that we have. Somewhere with a chip started a problem because someone bought or ordered chips without these coordinates that I was saying, obviously, and visions of what kind of state administration we want. The next area where we have gone too far, which is inflation of public authorities or legal persons with public authority. I no longer know if there is a Czech in Croatia that does not have its own chamber with public authority. Is there one price, one profession, one profession that doesn't have a chamber? Every month some kind of chamber we set up with public powers and other... give public authority, then they become completely independent, not allow anyone to interfere in their business, and cause problems in their functioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, in the end, as far as the objectives and measures are concerned, I'm going to single out five of them. 13-1 education system for public administration work. One of the most important points when it comes to staff structure where we can hire economists, professors, doctors in management departments but we don't have anyone who knows the public administration. So unification, the creation of a system of education for public administration work is a prerequisite for where we have to draw quality frames, to have where to draw from. Because it's not enough to declare a desire to draw a quality frame and not have an educational system to create it. The second 14.2, so the 14th objective, the second measure, the state administration's offices in the counties must bring together other deconcentrated resolutions, which the state has deconcentrated in the counties. I want a lot of happiness, a thick skin and a great political backdrop not to eat it before it starts because the resistance will be both local and central. 17.1, functional and financial decentralisation, 17.2 territorial structure. I have a feeling, therefore, about this territorial unfortunate structure, about decentralisation less, but the territorial structure, but really everybody's barking whatever they remember. So I get the feeling that sometimes we've worked in municipalities, cities and counties and built a fangle, you know what a fangle is? It's a building spoon. This is how someone throws it. And then came the others who would make that order an axe, that big ax and cut everything they came up with. So when they're employed in local self-government, question... 13 thousand 638 employees and tenants, 13 thousand 638, we have 1322 local and regional officials, these are the heads of municipalities and deputies, mayors, deputies, mayors and deputies 1322, elected by the people, as they say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, that 1,300 figure, someone says it's too high and I'm not a fan of axes or scissors, but finance and data. So when I sorted that data out by county, the number of employees, I won't be able to make it in finance, then I found that, for example, in Međimurje County, one employee in municipalities, cities and counties, the total local regional self-government comes to 541 inhabitants. So one per 541 residents. Or in Brodo-Posavina, 521 residents, one employee. In Koprivničko na 408, Krapinsko-Zagorskom 421, Varazdinskoga 491, Zagrebačka 478. The average of Croatia is 325 per 325 inhabitants 1 employee. And they're a rational local and regional self-government. But then we have Dubrovnik-Neretva, one official to 238 residents. Istria 1 on 204, Ličko-senjska 1 on 187, Primorje-goranska 1 on 259, Zadar 1 on 278, in Zagreb 1 on 279. And now I'm asking, how municipalities and cities and counties that have the exact same powers and obligations throughout the country operate somewhere with one official on 530 residents and need somewhere on 221. So not even scissors, but scalpel should if we're gonna respect these. Because scissors and axes cut all and efficiently and capable. If we're going to work with an axe, we certainly won't do it right. I also have data on staff expenditure recalculated for 2013 by one employee or a manager. The Croatian average is 30 thousand 113 per month. It's not pay, employee expenditure is far beyond the term, 30 thousand 113 kuna, according to the 2013 data. In Zagreb there are 42 thousand 176 in Zagreb County 34 thousand and in Međimurska 25 thousand. So both financial indicators and data exist and I believe that this point or measures 17.1 and 17.2 will not begin in the government in a way that someone on a napkin first draws a map of territorial or regional structure and then we start talking and what they should be doing, with which money and how much money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112283	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112284	Comrade Lesar, you're really on many occasions when you mention units of local self-government baratate with really flat-rate facts obviously you haven't been to such jobs that you know what's going on between these units of local self-government. But you said a sentence about this territorial structure all lauded as they wanted, so you set an example that there is a clerk on 279 inhabitants, so Istrian County 1 to 275 or something. Now the question is why and what's the difference if some agglomeration has a larger population of 580 people or here if it's 1 in 275 when the same jobs have to do from winter road maintenance, from social care, from kindergartens, from all those jobs that local self-government units do on their own ground. And not to mention the demographic image mentioned here in this strategy very little. And what happens in Slavonia now that young people are leaving, and I'm talking about white death in Croatia. And then we're talking and somebody's really barking around here about removing and cutting scalpels, and I don't know why the local self-government unit is doing their job on the ground, no matter what population they have. And you can't tie up the number of residents somewhere in Lica, in some small municipality or Gorski kotar which has lost a proposal of these laws now and funds for all these jobs that it does with the number of residents in that space. Well, I guess it's the purpose and function of that local self-government unit to serve those citizens. And then when we share that number the way you share it, count the population in a municipality, an example of Lokva, which has 700-800 inhabitants, with 5, 6, 7 employees. When they are divided into a number of employees, you come up with a fact that you never mention, but not just you, but all those who treat the units of local self-government in this way, that is not to say that again and not to tell you what you said, that in this territorial structure everyone is lying about what they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112285	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, I would ask that we use words that are appropriate. I realized I'm sorry it was sent to my colleague Lesar. ... We can all speak freely here and speak our views, but I say let's choose our words. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. My colleague Lesar, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112286	My colleague Klaric, for the first 7 years I was deputy mayor and please be polite and when you tell someone that he has no idea what he's talking about, I've been working in regional self-government for seven years. You probably didn't know that, I'm telling you now, so watch your step again. Secondly, the data I have provided are official data from the Office of State Audit of the Annual Report, census and data received from the Ministry of Administration and official. It's about the authenticity of the data. Thirdly, I said that in the criteria that I represent, otherwise there are 12 criteria that I represent, because of the time of the debate I could say one, that's the number of inhabitants and the financial part of the other. I couldn't make it any further because of my limited time. And you won't convince me because if you want to, I have a minute of time, total income and income per capita for 2013, and that's usually called fiscal capacity, according to one head of residents in Međimurje, we're arriving at 3028 kuna annually. The Croatian average is 5527 kuna, we 3028 and we are last on fiscal income. ... Zagreb is the first, 9450. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's for each county individually, look. Istria is 7724, Primorje-goranska 7027. And when I throw Zagreb off average is 7800. Now answer me the question of how is it that local self-government in Međimurje with 3028 or if you want in Varazdinska or Krapina-Zagorska with 3400, in Varazdinska with 3900 per capita service obligations, there are the smallest number of employees in municipalities, cities and counties in absolute population compared to the number of municipalities. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112287	Thank you, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112288	And you can be angry all you want, you're wasteful, that's why you don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112289	Thank you, thank you. There'll be an opportunity. Next replica Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112290	Thank you very much, Vice President. So maybe that's actually the answer to what you said, so where income per capita is smaller there has fewer employees, and where the larger one there has more employees. Maybe that's the answer. But that's not why I volunteered for the replica, but I wanted to look back at what you were saying about county state offices, public administration offices in the county. And here you are from the strategy, from the document you actually took out that it needs to enhance the functioning, the connection, I don't know what it's all about. And I'm going to say this, in 2000, when this state administration separated from that regional, local and state-owned one in the counties for which they were actually created was one of the stupidest moves and the most harmful maybe made to public self-government because then there was a double system. And today, as mayor after 14 years, I have no idea what these people are doing, which is what they do, and I don't know where to go if I need to do something, so I'm asking how the citizens will know. I'm not saying that these people won't work, they will, but we have to make it possible for them to work, and not today that we have these services where all these people are employed, they're always going somewhere, something's being lifted, something's over and over again. Hell doesn't even know where the hell it is anymore. It was in the town of Križevci until '93. In the year the town of Križevci and 4 surrounding municipalities about 150 and some people total employed, and tax and court, all that was. Today there are just as many but nothing is working because these services that are so we don't even know where they are. So I'm afraid if there's going to be any reinforcements in these offices, there's going to be more problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112291	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112292	A colleague of Hrg, 1.7.2001. was separated from the county administration's office. There's only one thing that's changed behind it. The head of the state administration's office was then, the head of the office was called, the headmasters if I'm not mistaken, and until then their boss was mayor. And you know why, and then it was called Regional Administration and Self-Government, and that wooden iron was invented just to get the president of the Republic to have the authority to give confirmation to elected mayors. In order for the president of the state to perform... to confirm the selection of mayors working in the county parliaments should have put them in office, they had the status of state official mayors then, until 2001. And it was wooden iron, one of the biggest nonsense that could have been and it's good that it's changed. The problem is that the state administration offices stayed or were given only part of the state's deconcentrated business, not all of it. So you have the Office of State Administration in your county, but part of the state-of-the-art deconcentrated business is out of that office. You've got a dozen more of these jobs, and now I'm just saying it all has to be part of the state administration's office on the ground, one office, not scattered all over the other corridors. And this is due to the fact that some ministers have not allowed their deconcentrated dispersed affairs on the ground to be part of the state administration's office. It's an anomaly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112293	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112294	Thank you very much. My colleague, Lesar, I listened very closely to you, and I must admit that it bothered me when you analyzed the number of residents with the number of county employees. If we look at it and compare it then let's start from the beginning. Croatia lost only in the period 2001 to 2011. 150 thousand inhabitants, and when we look at the number of county employees in the period since 1997, we have had 793 employees, 2000. Let's say one reference year 921, 2014. 2,275 means we're looking without Zagreb. You said you didn't need scissors and axes, but powers in the county also didn't change much. So we don't need scissors and axes, but we don't need mushrooms after the rain. Therefore, we need regionalisation, we need to unite units of local and regional administrations, create strong regions and just cut costs. Therefore, looking at this number and increasing the number of employees in all these years has not been incorporated compared to reducing the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112295	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112296	You don't have to be angry, I've looked at Slavonian counties in a hurry by all parameters, you don't jump in the golden middle at all, rationally and well organized. So as far as the powers are concerned, I agree with you in 2001, 2003, it concerns further decentralisation and it is a problem and powers and money in particular. Even later, many moves, and even in this term with several legislative changes, have reduced the original revenues to local and regional self-government, which is not good, and we have indirectly increased obligations, but not decision-making but only obligations. And as far as regionalization is concerned, you see that we are deeply disagreed or I will say it like this, I will support any proposal for regionalisation of Croatia within which Međimurje will be a region, and you all of you will agree as you will but we want to be your region. What you in Slavonia and those in Dalmatia will do is none of my business. But never again propose regionalisation and place Međimurje in any region other than the Međimurje region, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112297	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague absolutely in that part agrees with you that you have shown, nevertheless, certain criteria or certain trends that occur in terms of efficiency and rationalisation and work both local and regional self-government. Yes, you can see the trend from this I am very much aware of most of it has proved that this inre rationality and inefficientness is much more present than the south, not to say further anything, and we in northern Croatia practically with modest resources but great efficiency always turns out to be rich and we need nothing. When you talk about this part, it is very important to compare the number of employees compared to the total number of people or the number of employees compared to the original budget revenues. But I would still point out the example of my city where it is 8,300 inhabitants and 8 employees are in a single management department. My colleagues in this wider environment also have such a similar ratio, almost a thousand people on one employee, and we also have a kindergarten and we have the same obligations that everyone has, and we have to work and work from EU funds to do all the things that are. So where's the difference in some way? And this strategy should well define what to do so that we may not accidentally say here we are now going by 10 or 15% at all levels to reduce the number of employees then someone who has a thousand employees to be discriminated against by someone who has 200 people to one employee. So we need good parameters and measures to define how and how we're going to do the order. If you followed the other day, the Republic of Serbia has adopted one such regulation where it has limited exactly how many employees it can have in relation to the number of inhabitants. The Slovenians did something similar in that part. When we talk about rationalising the local administration and the size where we have 200, 300 people or 500, which makes one municipality, it's not a problem, but there is one analysis and a survey where such commissioners in no way want to work volunteering or free of charge in such municipalities. They want to get paid, and what they do... income that nobody cares. So there's absolutely a lot of things we need to define by, and this strategy will still open the door for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112299	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112300	If I understand you correctly, you agree that from certain parameters we must begin. I was using the numbers to locate places where the irrationality began. You see interestingly, when we compare Croatia with other EU members in something, let's say the number of employees in the state administration compared to the number of inhabitants, it doesn't bother anyone. But when I do the same thing with local self-government compared to the number of inhabitants, you heard the rebellion immediately. So the same criterion, the same criterion from the top of Zagreb to Brussels, can, but from Zagreb to the lower can no longer. Of course the number of inhabitants is not and cannot be the only criterion. Well, of course, neither population nor fiscal capacity are enough criteria to make the smartest decision. There's more, but I hope they discuss it when they're operational. And what I'm angry about when it's being debated in the media three days ago before this strategy says, "The strategy envisions a voluntary merger of municipalities – Ha, ha, ha". Therefore, the strategy offers voluntary cooperation on projects and voluntary integration. And there's probably some carrot behind that. Because in order to do something like that, they have to have a beating and a carrot. So when the state offers carrots for something called voluntary, if only 10 municipalities take that chance because they're going to profit from it, we've avoided the point of conflict over it. And it's the best reform that can happen to us. Because people in the interest of improvement accept such an approach. And somewhere there's going to be a beating. And when you do a beating and a carrot, then this data is possible to create who gets a carrot and who beats on the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112301	Thank you. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and Reformer Natalija Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112302	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished co-workers of the minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the fact that we are bringing the public administration development strategy at the end of this government's mandate as well as the fact that the realisation of the objectives according to this document comes from 2016 to 2020 speaks a lot about the real desire to implement reforms in the public administration. Although everyone but everyone from the businessmen, entrepreneurs, craftsmen of all political options, from those in opposition to those in power and most important of all of our citizens warns, challenge serious and how it is liked to say structural reforms in the administration, it is quite clear that in the last few months, this government will not and will not face the elections as honest and realistic as any government before. And I must say that I am sorry that this government did not respect the fact that the Croatian public administration has just become a serious obstacle to our country's progress. Our administration is short and clear and overpriced as best read from the fact that the Croatian administration is 20% more expensive than the averages of the 10 most developed European countries and that Slovenia is the most expensive compared to all EU members and that according to the World Bank, the cost for public administration employees in 2013 was more than 12% of GDP. It is further, which is actually a bigger problem, inefficient and ineffective and as such the biggest obstacle to domestic and foreign investors, the obstacle to the economic process and the development of our economy as a whole. I believe you have all heard of a sentence in which the level of investment in Croatia is always mentioned in the context of administrative barriers. There are several factors involved, from the instability of policies in particular tax policies, over-indulgence and corruption, but the key obstacle is always our administration. And precisely because of this administration and some potentially good laws like that. The Act on Strategic Investments and the Law on Investment Encouragement and Promotion of the Investment Environment simply has no effect. Let's just start with a building permit as one of the key investment documents. So, getting a construction permit in Croatia takes 317 days. The EU's average is 147 days and in the new EU member states, which are also our biggest competitors in attracting investment, this process lasts 174 days and 143 days shorter than we have. And when we upgrade the length of time for all other procedures, the permits and documents come up with numbers or lengths of duration that are not acceptable to any investor. I am therefore particularly surprised that the deadline for implementation of measure 1.6 is to remove unnecessary administrative actions in the second quarter of 2020. What is important is that management is above all a problem to the government, or to the entire executive authority that is slowed down, sometimes blocked by the failure of public administration. Because without professional and professional institutions, no one can implement programmes and implement projects. But as it is explicitly stated in the World Bank's report that our administration is the narrow throat and the biggest brake to implement all other reforms. Therefore, ensuring the functioning of the system, ensuring the functioning of the institutions and the functioning of the administration should be the first objective of the Executive Authority, i.e. the Government. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, what is particularly unknown to me is the financing of the implementation of the strategy because under the scope of the funds we have mostly written will be subsequently evaluated and as the most common source of funding we have funding from EU funds. This will later be assessed only in itself does not pour some high level of trust into the realization because as soon as you start assuming that you do not know how much it will cost and how you will pay for it and from where it is a little harder to realize it. And as for the financing of the implementation of the EU funds programme, which are therefore listed in almost all measures as a source of funding, I would have one question for the minister, i.e. since he is not available for co-workers, so the specific question is, at what stage are these projects prepared so that they can get and withdraw funds from the EU? Secondly, is the budget for this year, i.e. the 2016 and 2017 projections, intended for co-financing? I think the fact that the Republic of Croatia in 2014 had the right to withdraw 11 billion, while we withdrew 2.1 billion and paid the EU 3.6 billion, raise legitimate concerns about the preparation of these projects. Furthermore, the main topic is public administration employees whose labour status is regulated by as many as 3 laws, so the Law on civil servants, the Law on civil servants and tenants in units of local, regional self-government and the Labour Act. In addition to all the proposed measures other than the principle that this is not a good position, I have not been able to find how this and when it is planned to change or coordinate. As far as employees' salaries are concerned, they are a special story, and they are currently based mainly on years of internships and not on results, and there are more than 40 different fees that range from 4 to 150% of basic salaries and that do not exclude each other. State officials are in a better position than employees with the same professional training in the private sector and at the level of wages and per amount of working time. Today, civil servants, i.e. public administration officials in the set, have 19% higher salaries compared to all their activities and even 37% higher salaries compared to, for example, the processing industry. However, when we release salaries, so what is here is crucial that our administration does not deliver the result, i.e. it does not deliver a good enough result, which is a general assessment of all therefore from the World Bank, the European Commission, of all investors who have ever come to Croatia, our domestic and business and craftsmen and, as I have already pointed out, this is the assessment of our citizens. In addition, it is also an assessment in the analysis of the state of the strategy. So there's nothing controversial about it. Now, the way she sees herself management, that's just as interesting. So we in the administration have an evaluation system or an evaluation system which, of course, should exist and deliver some effect. This is difficult to achieve, however, because of 23,850 public sector employees, 26% of them were rated excellent, 69 very good, 7% good, 1% enough, and 0.03% insufficient. Translated into a specific number of 23,850 employees only 8 did not satisfy the work. This assessment indicates the complete unreality of the evaluation and I must say that it is offensive for citizens who finance this public administration, it is offensive for all employees in the real sector, in production, in shops, and it is particularly offensive for all those on the stock exchange and waiting for their employment. Because just to remind you, from 2008 to today in the real sector, 238 000 people and 15.4% of total employees were left in the jobless economy. At the same time, the number of state administration employees remained the same, while local self-government units increased by 13% compared to 2007 increased by 20% while their salaries increased by 8.5% at the same time. And what you would particularly like to underline here because it's not the people who work in the public administration, people are the same with privates, and with the homeowner of the company, and with the foreign company owner, and in the administration, and in the city, in customs wherever but people are the same, but they work the way the system is set up. If the system is set up to do no radio pay comes, if the system is set up in a way that if you try, work, you have ideas at the end of the month you get the same salary as the one next to you that doesn't work, if the system is set up in a way that if you don't work, you don't deliver the result again, and no one can fire it, if the system is going to behave exactly as they do today, and it's not people's faulty employees in the public administration, it's the wrong system, those who set up such a system and those who don't want to change it. And precisely because of this, the National Party of Reformists launched an interpretation signed by several clubs and MPs seeking to reform a labour-based pay system, expertise, efficiency involving an increase or reduction of wages, depending on the results of the work or the introduction of measurement and evaluation criteria. So that it doesn't look like boredom, so behind the bad work, there's an evaluation, but after a bad assessment, there's also sanctions. The sanction means losing a job for 3% of the state's most unsuccessful employees. Also, evaluation also involves an incentive to reward those who are successful. It is particularly important to apply the same quality and evaluation standards at local and regional self-government level. And I remained truly amazed by the statements of those who called that interpretation inhumane, and unconstitutional, etc. Because I just can't figure out who in this country wants all our citizens to pay for those who don't? Interpletion that just restricts the power of politics in so-called painful cuts to fire anyone and how they want to do so by political criteria, but that layoffs are reduced to the result by measurable and clear criteria. And that's actually something that I think we should be the first to support in unions and in public administration employees. Because we have a fact that we can all agree with, our administration is today I don't think there's anyone who hasn't said that, so our administration is too expensive and ineffective. This proposal first leaves only those who do not work and do not produce results. I think it sounds real and normal and so it is in the economic world, and so it is everywhere, so it should be in the public administration. Secondly, those who work and receive wages know that they must deliver the result and do their part of the work because otherwise they follow the sanctions. Thirdly, after the administration has reduced to an optimal number, it should continue to implement this measure in the sense that 3% of the most inefficient so that those who do not deliver the result and who do not work leave, while at the same time entering 3% of people who are more diligent, more educated, more interested and who want therefore to actively and quality contribute to public administration work. And of course, what is essential is to reward those who are more successful because it is a motivational system that is valid everywhere and always. But for the implementation of the reform, political will is crucial, so I would say strength. I believe that there was a desire in this government, obviously there wasn't enough power, which is a shame because this government had one solid and stable majority to implement all the key reforms, and so did the reform of this public administration and I'm sorry that it didn't take advantage of it. Our interpretation is not a criticism to the government, because there is nothing the government already knows and, as I have already said, what we have no longer agreed to today is the actual invitation to action. I hope that's how it's gonna work out. We'll support the strategy, a good analysis of the situation has been made, a lot of what needs to be done. What is not good is that the government has set targets and deadlines for another government. And that is why I will once again call on the government to accept the proposed interpretation and, in its term of office, make a very concrete decision on public administration and launch public administration reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112303	Thank you, too. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112304	My colleague Martincevic, I will quote your sentence: "It's not the employees' fault, it's the system's fault." And now we're talking about a strategy that should make this and such an existing system or make it work and be a norm. Now, how are you going to pull something like that no matter what it says in the strategy when we have the state of the country the way we have it? For example, when you were talking about entrepreneurship and the length of the case resolution. We have a situation that for land in economic areas in part of the land that is owned by the state, it is simply such that you have to solve it for months, not to say for years. Which entrepreneur will wait to invest, to solve a few squares of state land in this way as DUDI now does. And it's not the DUDI employees' fault. I'm not just talking about him, I'm talking about a lot of other agencies, and I'm talking about what I used to talk about here a lot. I think we should all think that way. It's all about decentralisation, putting these powers down on local self-government units so that this whole terrain and this huge system that's so decentralised has left out, and there's not much to talk about here. So we can talk about strategy, we can read everything in it and say hello in a way but it won't be effective. We've passed the Strategic Investment Act. He's, you can't make him more efficient because it doesn't contain the basic elements that are necessary for that kind of thing. We passed the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, you can't do it, you can't rush anything because we're not the basic elements if you remember those amendments that we've given to allow these laws to enquire land within the scope of urban plans of entrepreneurship and other zones. So, this new Regional Building Act that was taken away and removed the status of mountain-mounted areas. Then create large anglomerations These are all problems that this strategy cannot solve. [[Upadica Batinić: Time of fellow Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112305	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112306	The problem of public administration, therefore, consists of two key problems. The first part is that it is too expensive, which costs Croatian citizens who pay it terribly. But another even bigger problem is that it is inefficient and ineffective and it affects to a large extent our economy, our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, all potential domestic and foreign investors, but it also affects the executive authority itself and the government itself, which is actually blocked by the inaction and failure of public administration. So she was prevented in a lot of segments in the conduct of decisions, in the implementation of reforms. This is said explicitly by the World Bank, which says the biggest problem of the Croatian state is the implementation of reforms, a narrow throat, which is public administration. So these are two key problems that are holding us back on all fronts. As far as these laws are concerned, I also mentioned the Law on Strategic Investments and the Law on the improvement of the investment environment. That's two great laws. I defended them here when I spoke well of those laws and in favor of those laws. However, they did not live. They didn't live because management wouldn't let us live. So that's the problem. And I'm going to say once again, so I'm sorry that this strategy is brought six months before this government leaves. So, of course, the idea of starting with the strategy at the beginning of the mandate and starting at the time of the mandate is that the government that has received the citizens' trust to implement and reform, adopt strategies and implement reforms. So this is how we get something that, if they're going to, when they're going to realize some other government with execution deadlines like I said from 2016 to 2020. So it's just not real, we're bringing it in now to satisfy some form, to make it look like we've done something. But unfortunately, there's something in this specifically that will now contribute and improve the situation, unfortunately there's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112307	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112308	Thank you very much. Well, I don't agree with you colleagues if it's not good that this strategy is being implemented by another government, why would that be bad? But that's not why I answered. You have asked the question at which stage are actually due to the failure of public administration various projects for European funds. And I'm going to try to give you one answer from practice and figure out what it looks like. Here's an example, in Croatian waters where that part of the space that used to be the archive is now working tables. There's a lot of them so complex, and there's a lot of people in there. It wasn't a while ago, a few years ago and now we have one situation, let's say those draining programs, the water work that's being prepared for European funds, you have a situation that some of the people who worked in the companies that received these jobs in preparation for these projects, making construction documentation now have moved to Croatian waters and are now working there. And now these companies can no longer essentially finish their jobs because employees have moved to Croatian waters and now they evaluate these projects in Croatian waters, so it seems to you, so it seems to you in the system and then the projects are standing. But, well, it's not just about that, it's about the projects and some other stuff. Let's say specifically those projects that are very important and valuable and can be implemented realistically because the building permits that you've also been talking about can't be implemented because, say, the Ministry or the Minister didn't adopt the Regulation. Now imagine how many regulations should be passed for example those rural development programmes, rural development measures somewhere over 60 regulations, and now imagine where the tight throats are and how projects will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112309	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112310	So here's what we're all saying today, what you just said, and that's what the World Bank said, the European Commission said, and all the investors who wanted and tried to invest there, say our businessmen, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, so that's our real situation today. And so, as problem number 1 in Croatia, all cite inefficient, inefficient public administration and numerous administrative barriers and barriers which unfortunately we do not reduce and not improve the situation but unfortunately is even more complicated. It is also cited as one of the major problems of overall political instability in terms of frequent amendments to all possible laws, regulations, etc., tax instability, let us only remember how many times in the mandate of this government we have changed the tax policy which is crucial for each investment. First someone looks at the rates of the investment tax, so if you change it like you did three times in tourism, then it's certainly not a good message. So, the problems are clear and now we should focus a little more on solving them, and in this sense we have proposed a quality and constructive solution. And I believe that, I think it's going to be hard for someone to disagree with because I don't see what would be wrong with that solution. To be one first step to move in the sense that apart from just saying that everything is wrong and wrong, we're really trying to do something. And this is a good initiative for the government to do something concrete here before the end of the term, so we have something concrete that we have done and realized. Now, as far as this comment of mine is concerned, it's going to be done by some other government, which would be bad. Nothing in this sense, therefore, that this strategy is being done by another government but it is very possible that another government will issue its new strategy six months before the end of its term, so we are here in a closed circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112311	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112312	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. How serious this is, and we're all saying that management is early society cancer and we find the negative elements of this whole system we see in the interest of this debate. There's no more than 10 people here, 15 people. So there was now an opportunity for all those who think that the system of public administration, the state administration and all of its other elements, segments, to not work today to say it. And then the promoters might make it some kind of flavor and complement the strategy. However, when we have a debate like this at a level of 10 parliamentary representatives, then we see what importance we give this subject. We at the SDSS Club will support this strategy because we believe that the promoter is no matter what the end of this government's mandate is, as the colleague previously said, a great interest in detecting certain things that are not good in the public administration system and are very bravely here and given certain qualifications. And clearly, it was necessary to adopt such a document in accordance with the European Union Strategy by 2020. How much of it we, whether this government, the same government or some other government doesn't matter, when it comes to this thing, is how much we're going to implement this strategy tomorrow in life and how much we're actually going to manage to make out of the public administration what it is. And public administration is a very serious matter for us, it's an organization of society. And it's quite clear that then she has her own and that she has her own employees, and it's clear that she's costing. Finally, if we have the example of the European Union, we see that red tape, as it is popularly called, is not in the European Union in decline, but is in some kind of progression. So we're not the only ones who have a problem with a massive state apparatus. The only question is, first of all, is whether this apparatus is really bulky and the question is how effective it is. That's the thing we need to talk about. If we were to, we expect that when this strategy is adopted that one serious policy will then give room to talk about later elements that are very important and that is the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in all its segments, there will be opportunities to really talk about the rationalisation of the administration. But not according to a system of statistical figures where we're going to record some people who are so many thousands of employees, so they're apriors in relation to those who are on the bureau, but to see what practical rationalization in the public administration system means. There will probably be an opportunity to discuss and engage a particular private sector in public administration affairs and to give our opinion on whether or not we are in favour of such concepts. This strategy is therefore a good starting framework for us, for some future debates, and that is why we at the club will support it. If it were necessary to bring it, except for that financial part where we say that this will create the conditions for the withdrawal of certain money from the European Union's funds to be implemented. I don't think that should be the primary goal. The primary objective is a real and sincere desire to approach the reconstruction of public administration in a way that is compatible with modern systems within the European Union. That should be the basic idea. The data suggest that Croatia is below the average of the European Union today in most indicators measuring the quality of public administration which, of course, is not good. Long-term administrative procedures and slowness in dispute resolution contribute to creating citizens' mistrust but also entrepreneurs, which I think is even more difficult because of this and the ability of the state, means there is a lack of trust between entrepreneurs in the state administration and in the state to protect their rights in business relations such as respect for contractual obligations, payments, etc., etc. We see, I agree with a previous colleague who pointed out negative things related to the longevity of the outcome of various permits. We have often mentioned some examples, so here is an example of neighbouring Serbia in 7 days to solve certain administrative problems regarding the outcome of building permits and all the necessary papers around large investment projects. In our experience, this is much, much longer. So there's a way to shorten this process. A big state apparatus that's been around for the past 20 years with every change of government, we have to be completely honest, it's only increased, today there's about 210 000 employees of civil servants and tenants and the public often point fingers at these people, which is of course not good. They are not guilty or particularly privileged or privileged because they are doing their job in public service. There are people who do it fairly and do it during their working hours. So it's not exactly a public story. Croatia is one of the most centralised countries of the European Union, and according to the 21st County HUP, only 4 are the ones who earn to say so, so that they could only finance themselves. These are some things to pay attention to when a debate on the basic elements of implementation is opened behind the adoption of this strategy, the implementation of this idea of the strategy. The state administration here for public reasons should say that public administration is one broad term, it also includes state administration, so the ministries, state offices with all their decommissioned district offices, which is not a small number. The public administration also includes local and regional and regional self-government, meaning the city of Zagreb, county, cities, municipalities. At the same time, what is not said includes legal persons with public authority. These are agencies, institutions, funds that are quite like this to a safe shade far from the eyes of the public, and the perception of the citizens is that only state officials who are first contact with the parties are guilty of such a bulky apparatus. So what I'm saying is that there is one potential here to rationalise the public administration if we really want to take this process into account. Here it is said that one question can be asked, by including in the European administrative space, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to a thorough public administration on the following principles. It is reliability, openness, transparency, accountability, efficiency, coherence, etc. That all sounds nice. I'm asking a practical question. Wasn't that so far, because of some European documents, we have to force people to work responsibly on their jobs, work openly, make public services reliable, be safe, be effective. Well, that's actually the same thing as a job description, and that's actually equivalent to some kind of pay that's being paid. So when we change these things, when we realize that these people there are paid to do something, then there's no need for any declarations or general acts to bind them to these things. We are particularly interested here in the part about human resources where it is about employment in the public administration. We see that the problem with employment so far has been that the employment system has not been standardised and then there have been certain feelings of discrimination in employment, especially in the case of the employment of members of national minorities. The public service employment process was not regulated by uniform regulations and neither was the legal protection of candidates involved in these proceedings. Of course, it also made it difficult to respect the constitutional principles of participation in the performance of all public affairs and the availability of each job to all citizens on equal terms. We have this particular experience and I wouldn't be talking about it right now, it's always being apostrophe as a public administration problem. Under this new concept, it is expected that this process will now be of a much better quality than we, of course, welcome because it is expected that the recruitment process will be in a way to make it impossible for individuals to qualify through code testing etc., etc. So, no matter how nice it sounds here, we're staying in some kind of faith that it's going to be because it's actually the only way to avoid some sense of inequality, discrimination or some kind of bad feeling in hiring people. What you would also say is a category of ethics in public administration affairs. For us it is a very important element, the ethics of people who work, who communicate with the citizens of Croatia, who create a picture of openness, the availability of information and service and public administration to all citizens. That's the important thing. So ethics should not be the use of public service for private purposes, impartiality in public affairs and of course public trust. These are the basic categories we insist on. We have a lot of cases in practice that you could name but we also have complaints about how some people in the public administration system behave when it comes to rebuilding. Special criticism is at the State Office in Slavonski Brod where you could now quote how people have been making contact with these people in state offices. Now is not the time or place, but I will draw attention to the fact that there is no ethics and then there is dissatisfaction with the citizens. Also, the problem is corruption. It is said here that Croatia is 61 places out of 175 countries mentioned by corruption and what is bad for all of us is that perception is 64% of citizens that government officials and officials are corrupt. It's something that's not good. The picture should work, and the Ethics Commission is also at issue because so far the Ethics Commission has been set up in a way that its selection of its members has not been transparent enough. Therefore, if the Ethics Commission is under some suspicion of transparency, what do we expect from some other bodies? We also think that in the state administrations, the public administration system, in the state administrations, the counties need to be given more authority, and we think that in fact they need to be decentralised, i.e. to lower certain resources and certain powers and certain responsibilities in greater scope to local self-government, to regional self-government. We don't question the number or the county or the municipalities at all. We have firm arguments about this, and now is not the time or opportunity to talk about it, but it can be argued. There are a lot more arguments for this number than there are against. But their role should be redefined differently and set up, the matter should be decentralised, money released and authorised, and of course expect the responsibility of these people, the head of the county, the county administrations. And legal persons with public authority have grown in some unique number, and the system doesn't even know what number of public powers we have at the moment, and we're afraid that's exactly the one segment that, in communication with people, creates a bad image of the state, or public administration that was created. So it's a black hole, not those clerks who communicate directly with people behind the counter. And also local regional self-government, so I said about us it's not about the number of municipalities. It's about how many municipalities are going to get jurisdiction, how much funding they're going to get. I have to say that, according to some Forbes information, 50% of our municipalities are not self-sustainable, cannot be self-financed. Unfortunately, the top 10 are municipalities where members of the Serb national minority are in the majority, and that is some kind of signal that warns. And in conclusion, we think that the capacity to function in the European administrative space is well rated as bad. So we're unprepared. That's what you said here. We agree with that. The preparation for a European administrative space for us, the preparation is not good and on this matter after the adoption of this strategy in some new term whether these or some future governments should be extremely serious. We will support this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112313	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. You're one of the few people in this debate today, and as I fully support it, you mentioned one thing, and that's that you opened one perception towards the public administration in a way that it's not some imaginary, unreal thing and public administration is primarily made up of people. And indeed in that part of the people with their personality, with destiny share the work of a unique part of the public administration. And those people that you said themselves want to do quality work, they want to work in accordance with the law and they want to work in accordance with work ethic. So we just need to better define the system with goals, arguments, and I don't think that these people will always be a problem or a surplus that we want to mention in many discussions, but rather an effective pillar of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112315	Thank you. My colleague Horvath's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112316	Dear fellow, I was saying this in order to simply put a defense on those people who work behind the counter, who are very visible to public services. He's there, you know exactly when he comes and when he leaves, how much communication he has with people. He can't go to breakfast when he wants to, but when it's prescribed and it's no different. I've got a hundred, two hundred men behind the counter in my IRS, and that one woman is working, killing herself from work. And now she will enter the category of these 150,000 extra workers. I don't think that's a real thing. At the same time when we talk about the system of public administration here, there are categories that are not spoken of and we never talked about. We've never analyzed the work of agencies, we've never analyzed the work of institutions, etc. etc. Therefore, these people communicate with both economies and large capital and with all those who make public assessment that the state, or public administration, is ineffective. It's not the officials who create a picture of the ineffectiveness of the public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112317	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with your assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the proposal for a public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Minister here and presenting this strategy on behalf of the entire government, but above all, as the Secretary-General who led this strategy with his entire team. I mean, and speaking for the club, that's what my club thinks, as much as the strategy has been adopted, whether they were brought by the government or brought into this Croatian Parliament, that this is one of the best strategies. That's, it seems quite logical to me that's the way it should be. Because based on this strategy, we are actually just now moving into one systematic public administration reform, and public administration reform is a reform of all reforms, regardless of what some others may have already moved forward as, say, judicial reform. By applying and reviving this strategy, finally that famous word in the administration, you should come tomorrow and disappear from the lives of the public administration. As well as something that has been institutionalized, which is that people cannot simply understand and today exists in reality and even in our laws that such behaviour, silence of the administration is even institutionalized and leads to certain negative effects for the citizen himself. This is exactly what we want to end with the implementation of the strategy and I believe that on this road, this is the far way we're going, but the farthest way begins with the first step. That's why it's not surprising exactly, here's the opening of what I just said about the strategy itself, which is what the teachers themselves, the experts themselves said, and exactly who are dealing with administrative law whether they're in law school and politics, almost everyone supported unanimously, supported GONG, supported by GSV, trade unions, associations of cities, municipalities and counties. So you can, and all of us together, be happy and proud about it. You can be proud of the truth and someone doesn't support it, but it's the famous Croatian self, and then you can understand it that way because it just doesn't support someone who's been in a position for eight years to bring in a document like you brought in, or who you're proposing, and we're going to bring in. But it's not, they didn't bring it. But they brought and brought tables to offices where they hired people they thought would be loyal to them. Therefore, this strategy will implement the concept of administration, finally as a single system for one social regulation, which starts right from the point of view of the administration’s activities to improve and achieve the well-being of a society and to provide public services to citizens, rather than to achieve the domination of the state administration over people. Of course, the application of this strategy will also require changes in the understanding of the position of the public sector in society, seeking an optimal level of regulation from a public interest point of view. So, the understanding of the public administration that we often all like to talk about as public service to citizens, but really as such a service rather than as a powerful tool of government. Many colleagues before me, and even governments of developed countries that have a stable public administration, who do not feel the change of government, spoke about the deconcentration of the state administration, but do their job because it has long become both professional and without the influence of politics, are nevertheless governments and these countries in a constant quest to provide as much service as possible to their own public administration. The efficient public administration is one of the essential conditions of competition of the Republic of Croatia, an efficient and modern public administration is an important factor in the overall development of the economy as well as in the overall development of the entire society. It is justified to expect the local public to really start operating as a driver of social progress, to provide quality services to citizens and business entities. In short, red tape itself is deburocratic. Of course, this requires, as much as we have simplified, but it is certain that in implementing measures and law-making so that this strategy could be applied for both simplification and acceleration and administrative procedures and would allow citizens to access what is already well happening and businesses, therefore economic operators access to public administration by electronic means. We need the development of entrepreneurial cultures in the public administration and the proactive attitude of employees towards work just so that the public administration and the official does not function when he sees a citizen who has come to address his request and who has come to disturb and harass him rather than to act by the logic of all those services that are private and who have, who have received from us through the law of public authority. He's lucky a new party showed up because he's funding it. So this strategy is a great basis for changing such thinking. And this thinking will not only happen from itself but also simply to this way that we see in the strategy, which will also lead to such behaviour by overcoming and achieving measures and by changing the Law of Rewards, which I will say a little later on. Therefore, by raising officials in the spirit of responsible service and economy, entrepreneurs, the creation of an effective system of control of the legality of conduct, which is also very much necessary and broad information for citizens in all the measures taken by the Government. And this is not enough just through official texts, through our National Journals, but in all possible ways, to find appropriate ways for citizens to make timely changes and learn about changes, to find out what the laws mean for them. Because we have seen that many of us who are in contact with citizens in the field see how many people are uninformed to whom to address at all. Perhaps this is an opportunity to stress the importance of public administration for the economy and for the citizens. Maybe a brief review of history with a few sentences. One... What was the German variant of mercantilism and whose primary goal was to improve the administration of the state, and for what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To achieve the new objectives of the new economic socio-political arrangement. Therefore, when moving from feudalism to capitalism, which were the main objectives of the public administration at the time to enable it to develop trade, crafts and industry at that time. Even in the Habsburg monarchy, there are documents that are the main and desirable characteristics of every official, tenant, clerk as they were called at the time. So they have already recognized the main foundations of expertise, legal orientation, service of general good, industriousness, zeal in service and virtue, and above all loyalty. So, I often like to talk about these topics to talk about a guideline of Maria Teresa that was also valid in our neighborhoods, and which is about this way for officials who are practically and ethically code will come...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112319	Comrade Antičević, one moment, excuse me. Minister, I would ask you to take your place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112320	It will come about the hour of the seventh and will remain until the hour of the fifteenth afternoon, and more and longer, and it says, if the multitude of corrections are to do so, it will refer and demand. They are prohibited from saying "drinking and fighting" in their pretenses and cultural behaviour with each other and with their clients. So in those two, three sentences were a whole reform and an ethical code. So what's going on with us in practice? Some have tried to speak, it would be a long story, but perhaps a recent story that a civil servant, a deputy, an official, does not want to give a certain association what it says is that it has the right to pass the law. We here gentlemen make laws, but we can't do other branches, and we want an independent judiciary, we want an independent and depolitical administration, but not independent of us, but not independent of the law, and that happens to us. The people we have allowed to move politics to do their job freely are obviously not still used to their freedom and often do not act by law and thus directly penetrate the legislative authorities and, of course, to the harm of always one party in the process. So, just society, just society according to how many of us there are, how many civil servants we have, the tenants often say here if there's a lot of us, is there few of them. However, all research and independent experts suggest that our almost state administration is not that big a deal. However, which is not a question here, because there must be too many of them somewhere we all know, so there should be some special expert, somewhere there are too few, but what this strategy points to, but what I think is the first step and the first measure, if you can measure the work of workers on the current tape, measure the work of each, the work of judges who are intellectual work, one of the most complex, so it will not be, therefore, anything will not change unless the rewarding in the same pay grade can not be all paid the same. I'll remind you and I'll say it, but I'll repeat it a dozen years ago, Austria who doesn't know what the silence of the administration was conducted by a single pilot program consciously says that we have a wolf's motors creeping around, it's not fair that in the same pay grade they all have the same salary. So they started with such a pilot project that everyone would be at a minimum but had the possibility of triple the salary they had so far, and those who were here somewhere on that border of minimum thanks for their service. At first, they were nagging, and after a few days they started breaking into each other's closets so they could earn their pay. So as long as they all have the same salary, so long as someone gets to whisper and so long as someone does, it's not just and it's not such a servant and a substitute who's not in a fair position that can't spread justice or apply the right law or the one to whom it applies and what's his duty to do. One Denmark has a far greater administration, but it is not a problem with them because they are in the service precisely because complex social relations in the service of people are satisfied, and state administration and even more satisfied with local self-government. And with us, this problem is big, somewhere this local self-government, regardless of what personnel combination, the political combination, they're doing great. However, somewhere we have terrible things that happen that are practically holding back because of corruption holding back the development of its place, holding back the development of investments. So, it is not a question of whether the reduction, whether the increase rather than, first of all, after the depth analysis and payment towards the effect will be seen not only will it be true that officials will be rewarded justly for the benefit of the citizens, but we will also see if there are more or less of them somewhere. And let many consider those who have a developed state administration that there is a danger that governments no longer rule rather than rule public administration. That's also a lot of critics warn and talk about, and I'm not going to quote it right now, but management and any government itself has to show that she has a soul, although if she's not law-abiding, then bureaucracy is not the spirit of the state, but the absence of her spirit. I believe that by adopting strategies, by adopting all these measures and by amending the laws and by passing the laws that we need, we've set out on a path that no longer goes back to the way we were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112321	Thank you, too. We have replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112322	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Anticevic, I respond to one of your untruths that you have now said in this debate. You spoke on behalf of the SDP club, I hope you read the strategy when you spoke about it? Because exactly the minister praised the previous strategy, the previous document, if I listened well? And it says on page 15 what it says. You said that everyone who is against this strategy is actually clear because they were 8 years old and couldn't create a document like this. And here it says well that the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 19 March 2008 brought the State Administration Reform Strategy for the period 2008-2011 which established assumptions for the achievement of the vision of the modern public administration. Then it says, this strategy has been successfully implemented since a total of approximately 89% of the measures envisaged are included, including measures partially implemented and whose implementation is ongoing. And then there are all these measures that promote this story that it was really a successful State Administration Reform Strategy. And you find here that everyone who is against this strategy is actually clear because in 8 years they haven't done anything, and that's not true is it nice to write here in the text of this strategy that someone has done something. And I don't think it's right that because you want to praise the minister with big words, the best, never experienced, the most beautiful that you can't minimize what he writes because we're discussing what he writes, not just personal attitudes. I think you're clear on those who came after your term, and you were the Minister of Justice and the Administration for not doing anything, and then you were very unhappy that the government had done something after you. And that's where you obviously found that reason why we should insult all those others who disagree with this strategy because it was brought at the wrong time, here at the end of the term. And we brought it right back to the beginning and something was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112323	Thank you very much. Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112324	I thought you weren't going back in time, but when you go back to the past, yes, this authority admits that you've detected some vision, that vision and I'm giving you recognition, but not for commissions discussed by domestic courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112325	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112326	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you spoke to colleagues Anticevic in your presentation on behalf of the club about some incarceration in the state administration, so since the facts have denied you that these in love with the presidents and employees of the public administration made 89% of all the changes in the former strategy, that they acted as the strategy had been imposed and I successfully commended them, but such success did not resist your political pressure, so all those leaders were removed. Not just them, but some of their deputies were demoted. It's a political action in the state administration, that's what you're talking about, that's what you don't want to admit, and it's true. Yes, those who implemented 89% of the measures set out in the 2008-2011 strategy. And that's the living truth, and don't talk about political infatuation, because you and your flock and meals are not welcome, you're being denied strict data.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112327	Thank you very much. Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112328	I don't know if a speech like this and a replica like this is a question of courage or the other side of courage. So the people who changed under the law changed. You didn't when you were in position, when you came to power that you changed everything but changed the people you had set up in your original term until 2000, which the then power that followed did not change because you didn't trust the team because they weren't changed and you're talking about it. Well, indeed, and if it's from you, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112329	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer of the Strategy, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112330	I'm sorry there's no Mr. Boric and the former secretary of the administration. So I'll read what Mr. Boric read. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 19 March 2008 a State Administration Reform Strategy for the period 2008-2011 which established assumptions, etc., etc. And we wrote that 89% of the measures were carried out, so that's true. It was carried out from a document called the 2008-2011 Strategy, but it does not say that they have been carried out since 2008-2011, some of them have been carried out after that, so when we came into position because those good things that were scheduled there and started there, of course we have finished, and so the centralized salary account, as it says on page 17, which was completed only in 2014 actually completed 98% still have to be entered by some institutions. And as for the commendation, I would mention that it was adopted on 19 March 2008 when the Ministry of Administration was not in the system of state administration, it was the Central State Administration Office whose Deputy Secretary of State was today the Deputy Minister of Administration, so Mr. Piculjan, so he was then and now he's the Deputy Minister. Therefore, it could not be said that this was quite a big commendation to the HDZ government in the past term on effectiveness, it was on ideas and some ideas were well finished and some of them continued and I am sure that once it was once again in 5, 9, 13 years it would be a chance for the good ideas to continue again. So here's what I was going to say so as not to misread the written reference to the old 2008-2011 strategy, so some things were well written, conducted until the elections, and after the elections were carried out by both authorities. We changed what was not well written, so we started to spend time. And so I would just like those interpretations not to, here, Mr. Boric, I've just referred to you and I'm sorry. Yes, what it says in 2008-2011 is the name of the document strategy, and the measures were implemented after 2011, for example, the COP was spent in 2014, so it was not only commendable to your government, but it was in the smaller part. But again to what's good, you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112331	We have one replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd be happy if you'd read everything you've written and brought to this Croatian Parliament. Here you have clearly counted 11 or even more measures actually 13 measures that have been made and which have significantly improved the work of the public administration, which have been decidedly described on this page 15, 16 and 17 and clearly speak about what it is. I would be pleased to have you in your presentation now that you wanted to explain what was done from 2011 to 2015 or 2014 for which it is spoken. It would be clear that you said, at least you counted, except for this one you made, which is except for the replacement of all the heads of the state administration's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112333	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112334	So the title of the document was the State Administration Reform Strategy for 2008/2011. and these measures are listed in that period and after that. Let's say the last measure on page 17 of the establishment of a central salary account was made in 2014. But it couldn't have been built if a system had not been established in 2011 where all civil servants were listed. And that it continued to work in 2011 we could have had it right away but it did not continue to work because of resistance within the system during your and one part during our government. But we managed to break that resistance and we managed to end it. So that's something that's been... There's something else here and there, but then you can see the measures that were being implemented later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course, given that a very similar team worked both this strategy and this strategy to me, it's only not clear to me how bad this one is to you and the one that was during your power was so good. But now I'm holding it part of the opposition action. And as for the Office of the State Administration that you mentioned, so it's not like all the leaders have been removed, I can name them the five, six that are left, some of them who were leaders are now deputies and their deputies have become leaders. Some simply retired because of years. So, that's, I don't really know that's exactly what you said. So no president who was the head received a schedule at a lower place than the assistant chiefs and several new non-party persons were also awarded in the public tender. That's right. Here we can go from county to county but I won't now, I don't think I can even get personal data on a microphone because it's official personal data but we can make a list.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112335	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, please do not make a fundamental mistake in the Assembly at least, so you call the Croatian Government our government and your government, I ask you nicely. It could be the government in office of both this and that or the government by the prime minister's name. I'm asking you nicely, it's doing us, for Croatia's sake. Thank you very much. We're going to discuss the club representations. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Kresimir Bubalo. Here's your buddy, Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112336	Thank you very much, dear President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a bit of a joke, but it seems that there are more people from the ministry, reporters almost than we are parliamentary deputies. [[The President's intrusion: Yours and ours.]] But anyway The topic is remarkable, commendable for the ministry and the minister. [[The President's intrusion: This is commendable.]] But the topic is extremely important, especially for those of us who belong to the regional option and looking at the proposal for a public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, it is certainly important to say that this strategy analyses where we are, what we want to be and how we reach that goal. A lot is said today and I would like to say on behalf of the HDSSB Club that this proposal of the Development Strategy, the very development of the public administration for the period 2015-2020, is acceptable for us and we will support it, but we certainly also see certain things that we expected will already be said. So surely, as a regional option from Slavonia and Baranja, we would like to see this strategy on page 109 by 17.2 written by Slavonia and Baranja region, both from Ilock to Ilova and that this concept of regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia is being implemented. But looking at what has been done over the past few years then we can praise certain things that from central accounting pay to analysis are also pooling information, evaluating people who work in the administration. Because often as we as field people, we had a chance to hear that someone was not doing well, that maybe he was rude, and sometimes you couldn't reward someone if he was doing good or if he was doing bad but often I had a feeling in my work that we had 20% more people and 10% less. We often had people who were used to doing that on the old pattern and sometimes weren't self-initiative, self-responsible, and that's also one of the problems that this government is facing, but also people who expect answers from the company of mayors, mayors, mayors on the ground. Because when someone comes to the city department, he expects his problem to be solved. And when you know about a single document that needs tens of consent, permission to wait for months, so here today a lot of DUDI was mentioned when as one mayor or mayor no one answers in a year or two days then you wonder if that institution should or should not be, or as fellow Lesar just earlier said if something should be struck with scissors and axes. But it's obvious that the governments were changing, a little HDZ, a little SDP, I'd say the state administration was booming, and that's why I said that just before when my colleague Lesar mentioned the number of employees per county when we combined that we had lost nearly 300 thousand people in Croatia since '97. until, when she was 793 employed until 2014. 2275, apart from the city of Zagreb, then we can say that the counties were growing, for example, like mushrooms after the rain, and that's what's not good. But looking at the system that we have this strategy goes towards its improvement and defines clear goals with age. I wish we had with these goals and problems that we solve everywhere and financials how much it will cost us in the next time, but it is evident that there is not a political consensus at this point. We'll have a political consensus waiting until after the parliamentary elections, so I guess we will. It is likely that no one will decide to withdraw those cuts that we must, will not make political decisions, and we will probably get from the European Commission as political orders next year, and that is to rationalise our administration, that is to be more efficient and efficient, that we have a better system of rewarding but also punishment and be more efficient. Well, even today, we had the same question on the board as the minister, 330 people working in municipalities, cities, counties, they don't have a state exam. By law, it's impossible, and here's the situation, and we're wondering if people are professional enough, educated enough, whether they can work or not. Often, competitions are talked about how people were received or not received. These institutions say no employment. So if you were to get on the inside as much of that moment as you stopped hiring people in the state administration system, you'd probably be consternating. Therefore, decisions are being made, the Assembly is being discussed, and decisions are not being followed afterwards. I hope that this strategy will not remain a dead letter on paper but will follow these clear guidelines, as well as deadlines. I wish we had even better... analysis, but surely the threat is enough and the problem is enough and there is no political consensus to go into a more aggressive solution to our problems, and that is, above all, a large number of people working in the administration. Looking at this strategy, we can say that it consists of 20 objectives, 48 measures and 20 analyses and a series of other activities to be done. So we have a strategy that reproduces a series of additional documents, and I'd like those documents to be controlled in the coming months and years, because in the next period of 2020, as you said yourself, three governments will pass, but if this remains a dead letter on paper and if it is not controlled by dynamics, then I'm afraid that we won't... get to that goal by 2020, that we won't withdraw enough European funds and that we won't fulfill what it says in this strategy. Looking at the same thing that bothers municipalities, cities, counties, and that's the tax law that we've changed, especially income tax, I'm afraid we won't be able to strengthen the units that matter to us, the municipalities, cities and counties because they won't have enough resources to participate and that's one of the big problems you've made this year and I think they'll reflect negatively on the implementation of your strategy. Looking at a series of measures written in the strategy, there is no assessment of the financial resources, I have said that to everyone and it would be correct in all legal proposals that we also have that part. Specific objections to certain measures and objectives in the strategy, measure 1.6 says, removing unnecessary administrative actions. The period for implementation of 2020 shall be as follows: Are we going to wait five years to remove some unnecessary and administrative actions? Minister, we have to do this much faster. Objective 8 - an effective and transparent public administration employment system. I don't think there's any need to waste words on that. It also measures 8.1 to establish a centrally coordinated public administration employment system. Which means, you'll be calling... just one place, that's all. from Zagreb? Why we centralize the system, it's more important to set clear criteria. Also objective 11 – optimal number of public administration employees. I think we should work on that every day, not wait for these deadlines you've set. Also rationalise the system of local and regional (regional) self-government, but looking at 17.1. define... functional and fiscal decentralisation. That's what bothers us most, and surely we expect with responsibility that and... to be greater in municipalities, cities, counties to jointly bear the burden of responsibility they have. Looking at measure 17.2. – to establish the optimal territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, there we expected much more even though we can say that this strategy is the first step and therefore we support this document because we think it is good and that you have the courage to take the first step. But we expected exactly here what I said earlier, which is to regionalize, to go to the regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia. And looking at my experience is that those municipalities that have income per capita below 1000 kuna are having a hard time working. You can't expect the municipalities themselves, some of them are already doing it, the legal services are jointly using three municipalities, some other advice, etc., but they can't be expected to go to unification on their own. So these things must happen according to clear criteria from the level and Croatian Parliament, listening to what is right for our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Also, looking at model proposals, criteria and cooperation mechanisms, we think these models need to be clearer for cooperation and we also expected this in this document. Also, looking at the strategy and seeing that it is aimed at changing the model of the state organisation, and directly that... the model is not good and it is often read in the media, then we can say what we have been waiting for these three years of your mandate because we have often listened not only to Plan 21 but also after receiving elections from the Kukuriku authorities to do certain things, from regionalisation, decentralisation, but we have witnessed that this has not been done. But here I am saying on behalf of the club I expect this to be the starting document on which to build and all the other documents that will contribute to having an even better, even more efficient administration, that our citizens are making their rights even easier, that they come to information, that they don't have to wander and that they don't have to wait for some documents for a long time. We have a clear list of wishes here in this document by 2020. Therefore, there will be more desire. Those who criticise today, and it is good to criticise themselves, I believe that you will put certain things into the strategy. He will likely have opportunities to give his suggestions in the coming years, for this is the initial document on which all other documents will be built. So we congratulate you on your first step. We also expect those other steps and the HDSSB club will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112337	Thank you, too, dear colleague Bubalo. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Honored Representative Marijan Skurić is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112338	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this proposal for a public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, it would be good, and that's why the term is defined, a description of the concepts at the beginning that we always repeat and always follow, we always learn the things we need. So I would like to mention again what the public administration, which is written in the wording of the concept, is that it is a set of administrative organisations that carry out public-interest tasks, which include public administration bodies, local and regional (regional) self-government units, and legal persons with public authority. Public administration also performs public services, and these are a set of tasks to ensure the exercise of the rights and interests of the users in accordance with the regulations. And of course they must be satisfied with the public interest, which is the advantage or benefit of the community as a whole in front of private or personal interests and it is defined primarily in the name of this strategy. Of course, when we define it and mark it, then we see that public administration is the basic structure of our society. Why? So is there anything that's been following you practically your whole life from birth to the very end? It's being followed by the public administration. And then in that part of it, we have to look at these concepts of what these services are, which is the public interest that we really have that way in this life, at least not to have those problems that we've come up with in these discussions. Now, we define that, we have to plan strategically. And yes, it's a good name strategic planning because it's a process in which you define vision, strategic goals, time and method of meeting them, measures, results assessment and the system of monitoring the results achieved. And this document is on the best track to solve it, and here's a congratulations and thanks for going that way, because we need to define vision and strategic goals. If we don't know what we want then we'll never get there. The time and manner of their fulfillment. Perhaps I would even say that in these five years as we plotted to meet, I think we can certainly be all satisfied and not just us, but before all the generations that come behind us. But you set these goals well. And the results assessment measures and the monitoring system of the results achieved are the basis of everything. The measures must be made available at any time, especially in the Croatian Parliament. And when we talk about strategic planning, above all, we have highlighted the goals we want to achieve, and the goal is always the question of what kind of public administration we want. But by the time we answer that, then we always have to ask ourselves a little bit and what kind of administration we have right now. And in this strategy, a certain analysis has been made that defines briefly that most of the objections to the domestic and foreign public refer to public administration's behaviour for too long, and are often unnecessarily complex. To the unclear responsibilities of different institutions for individual issues, to the location of bodies that resolve individual issues, and to working time institutions and contacts that are often difficult to reach. All of these brings users before bureaucratic obstacles in the exercise of their rights, obligations or legal interests. That's a lot of criticism, but these measures and analyses are still on that part to show us what and how. But we can't be so critical. What I can say as mayor is that the measures of the public administration that are defined, and there are many that are shown in the strategy itself, but also in the decision and measures of our government, which is that, above all, I am pleased that, there has already been a word that building permits are issued in 30 days. The other day, the mayor of Baran County received a prize from the businessmen that a major entrepreneur in the Varazdin County received a building permit for one day. Construction permits can also be obtained in Međimurje County in one day. It's the measure that greatly achieves the development of our economy. And as a citizen, I can be very pleased that, for example, in the home office anywhere in Croatia, I can get all the documents I need. But when we talk about the whole strategy, I have already mentioned, and in a particular debate, besides all of this, the most important thing for us is to realize this part of the revision of our goals and these are our people. I think human potentials are always the biggest problem, even much smaller than financial resources and operational resources, that they need to be the most invested in. In that part, I would be a little bit more determined by this analysis of the situation, because perhaps in the opinion of both the Croatian People's Party and myself should personally make the most of our efforts and activities. And so the analysis of the situation states that in the public administration, equal employee relations are not regulated in a unique way. Thus, the procedures for employment of rights, obligations, responsibilities and other issues of importance for the work of civil servants and deputies are regulated for example by the Law on civil servants, equal relations between officials and subsistence officers in local and regional self-government, for example by the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government, while the Law on Labour applies to subsistence and other public administration employees. And now as we look at it a little bit, then that part is quite difficult in a unique way to regulate employee relations. Here we mention competences of public administration employees, and it is the cornerstone of the dynamics of the rapid development of the public sector because it needs to be well educated and competent. Well, it's rare to say that something bad was done because it was meant to be, but it's always said it was out of ignorance. So we really need competence and education to get to as high a level as possible. Employment in public administration, public services, the employment system is not standardised. I wouldn't explain it, there's a strategy well-assessed enough and described, but we need very good employment to be one of the key issues. And I always look at it first of all, not as a cost, but as an investment. These people who do this need to create new values and then they should never be and should not be cost. So people aren't potatoes to throw out the windows, but to find a place for them, to provide them with employment, and to provide them with the kind of obligations they need to have. There's a lot of commitment and work in the public administration. The system of evaluation, award and promotion in the public administration, the assessment procedure in the state and public administration is not standardised and does not apply to all employees. The procedure for the assessment of civil servants and subsistence as well as officials and subsistence officers in the bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government is too complex and long-term associated with the high cost of making a decision on evaluation and appeal procedures... clear, objective and measurable evaluation criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whenever you have a system of evaluation that is more based not on measurable things than on certain perceptions of the work itself, we know that we who run and give grades is not a simple thing. The public administration pays system is not regulated in a unique manner and, above all, public administration ethics is among other assumptions of successful public administration and public service performance, which are the integrity, objectivity and efficiency of its employees. In the Republic of Croatia, a single system of standards for the behaviour of public sector employees should be established. Of course, you would not further analyse the other measures defined in the strategy. I can say that they are extremely well defined with objectives, measures, deadlines and other things. I would, however, like to make a few remarks about the strategy or the proposal. First, as head of the local administration, I may think that the description and strategy of the development of local and regional self-government which is defined on page 5 only know that certain things have been defined for local and regional self-government and through other measures within the strategy itself, but it is still so specific a case and weight that it should have much greater significance. I'm even thinking that maybe the local administration is too neglected by state-level structures because it's left to the mayors and mayors to manage, to solve problems. And these problems when we look at the state administration are multiple. The state administration, for example, has standardised activities such as ministries and agencies, and they deal with certain things. And at the local administration, we're dealing with all this. So we really need to have a well-defined system of competence, rewarding, all those things that are weaknesses that I mentioned in the analysis of the state of human potential. And of course what I said and on the board wouldn't exactly be for that and for the analysis of this local administration is ultimately the fact that the biggest problem in local self-government is corruption at a lower level. Well, I wouldn't want anyone who comes, any of my fellow mayors, the mayor, and the first thing they see is that the mayor and the mayor are corrupt. I think exceptions exist as well as anywhere, but there are a lot of quality colleagues and colleagues in that section who really adhere to the law and do quality and professionally their part of the job. It's not exactly supposed to be a conclusion at the end and at that level. Another remark I would like to mention in the strategy, which is the management of the implementation of the strategy, which is defined in a way that the Government proposes a strategy for the development of public administration to the Croatian Parliament and adopts action plans. The Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has the main task of monitoring the implementation of the strategy, and the Croatian Parliament adopts the strategy. By defining that one working body of the Croatian Parliament should be defined which would be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the strategy. Is it an existing working body or a newly formed working body? There's one problem. Yes, we have had little here and I agree that even three governments can change until the end of the implementation of this strategy, even three mandates of this Croatian Parliament and each time the working body must have new members defined by Parliament regulations. And we know for ourselves when there is resignation, that is, the formation and establishment of new bodies, there is always a vacuum where for such a strategy it may not be good. So I suggest that it might be better to set up a permanent expert council composed of representatives of state administration, experts and NGOs to discuss at least twice a year and send reports on the implementation of measures to both the Government and the Parliament. And third, in the end, when we always talk about strategy as a basic document, it is a matter of understanding. Is this document understood to the general public? I think that this document should make a short summary that highlights the important specifics of the strategy, publish it on social networks, in all institutions that citizens and together that we have public and transparency at a higher level. Because there's always someone who doesn't know, he's not familiar. Although I must point out that the implementation, first of all, of the strategy's proposal, is very high-quality because all key factors were included through public debates in this section, there really are congratulations. But let's take every step because it really depends on all of us what I said that this strategy if it's... 5 years from now, all these measures we have defined in a way that will certainly benefit all of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, it is always good to mention the ultimate goal, which is to ensure timely, reliable, quality public services to users to ensure a higher standard of living for all citizens and to create a stimulating entrepreneurial environment. Those specific goals I would like to mention is that we want to carry out decentralisation, decentralisation and, of course, territorial reconstruction. Following all these allegations and views of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats will support the adoption of a Public Administration Development Strategy for the period from 2015 to 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112339	Thank you, too. It is next to the club HSU in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112340	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with co-workers, therefore if we discuss this strategy in the Croatian Parliament, which is a strategically important area and the modernisation of public administration contributes to the provision of faster and better public services. He sees no reason why this should not be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, why would the Croatian Parliament not bring such a strategy and why would this be less important than the national security strategy? And I think that citizens are always in the right plan, and Parliament doesn't just have to bring in those strategies that are written in the Rules of Procedure or in the Constitution, a pardon in the Constitution can be much broader if it is in the function of improving the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And why not Parliament's working bodies to monitor the implementation of this strategy, who says it has to be permanent working bodies, that we can't have some ad hoc bodies to monitor the implementation of the strategy? We are quite confused in Croatia and we have certain blockades, we are experiencing very, very institutionally. I think we ourselves should be more flexible in approach to make things move in a simpler or more casual way in a better way. Therefore, almost no one can be against what is defined, which is defined by this strategy, which is the development, development of a public administration defined by this strategy, that such an general should take place in three directions, the first direction is to simplify and modernise administrative behaviour, the second is to improve the system of development and management of human potentials, i.e. creating a modern public service, and the third is to reform the administration system in accordance with best practice and experience according to European standards. So there's about that story about the visa, the mission, the goals, and it's kind of messed up in itself. Why? Because this is not visionary, this is in some way an insight into modern and functional European public administrations. The mission is to this ministry, and it is an obligation for this ministry to do so, the goal is to modernise and develop, and that is the first and the fundamental goal, and by the way, twenty other goals, that is the second thing. But the goal is to have a modern public administration in the function of citizens and the satisfaction of these citizens. So it's already unsustainable that our citizens are exposed to that syntagm of our public administration no one can pay me as little as I can do. I'm sure you all agree that this is also present in our public administration. So, about to be the simplest dictionary, we're exposed to silence. Secondly, the public perceives public administration, so citizens as bureaucracy in the most ugly sense of the word and believe that bureaucracy prefers to multiply itself. So, if I don't have a job, I'm going to invent some new job just to have a job, to justify my existence. Therefore, it must definitely come to an end, this people have neither the opportunity nor the will nor the long-term behavior to suffer, nor the pay, and we are responsible for such a situation, we are responsible for such a situation. And I think it will be much more interesting here to adopt action plans and to set priorities for which way to go. Whether it will arrive this government, whether it will be another government but the fact is that the strategy that we bring here at this meeting will be binding on the next governments of whatever they may be. It is also an unsustainable situation that only 25% of employees and tenants have high professional equipment and are looking for a modern public administration preferably with knowledge of foreign languages, with communication skills etc. with everything that, with constant improvement, etc. It is a state that is unsustainable and secure in the action plan will have to be planning and training staff. There are very few people in the market, few public administration authorities, if they are good lawyers, then they usually end up in some companies, in some pension funds, in some banks that are well paid. Who says the time has not come to both career and public administration especially if it has its own vertical to the swab. So there is a way of progress, if I am an expert in public administration, I don't have to finish my career in my municipality, city, county, but I can end up somewhere in the European public administration. So, not to use the other word that I said in some way wrongly. Therefore, of course we need to plan staff here but we will not be able to pay good people and authority enough, the state will forever be short of money, but we may have to go back to the past when some countries that worked and were very functional in this area have never had their own administrator from one area but was from another area to avoid corruption but have secured both housing conditions and child education conditions etc. There is therefore a lot of ways in which an expert can be kept in a working relationship with the public administration in which he can be motivated to be an authority and in some ways manage teams that provide services to citizens. What today’s debate would not agree is that we will pay for work by effect. It's very difficult to measure quality work in public administration. Let's go with e.g. HZMO, for one solution to one man who worked with one employer where all the papers were neat, it might take two hours. To solve another who worked with 15 employers where you have no data, where you have to look for data from multiple institutions, where you have to write 20 letters to get your data, how you can standardize that work and say e norm is that you have to solve it in two hours or in two days, it's impossible. So these are skills to be respected and to be rewarded in view of the weight of such a detail, not some standard for this job takes so many hours. So there are no objective criteria, and subjective evaluation is very stretching. So until a relationship is created in the structure itself according to the quality of the job, it is hardly possible to introduce some rewarding towards the work done. Of course, collective goals, collectively set goals, are very important to know how to plan a job. And as far as I know, how many experiences I have from other countries, but not just in public administration, but for example. In shipbuilding, a lot of them have left the norm of work in time, per piece, and they've introduced plan sizes, so they're very flexible to the problem that's opening up. And of course we need all the people who are learning methods and techniques of intellectual work and teamwork. There's no public administration where there's an individual who solves everything. We in Croatia have left a lot of teamwork behind. So, of course, you also need to rejuvenate public administration, it's a chance for young people who want to study, who want their future call and see that they are both quality public administration entities and that they create a certain career and a certain authority in their midst. So, of course, the younger world remains and we have to support them in any case and in some way motivate that this is a very quality job, that it is not a quality job just somewhere where big money is spinning, but that even in a more modest way it can succeed in a career and that it can live solidly and earn for itself and its existence and family. So, to conclude, of course this won't be the first debate, there will be a lot of debate, and this strategy I want a good wind in the back and every time it starts with a first-quality step. Let us not expect that there will be no obstacle on that road, there will be, but I hope that both we and some who will come after us will be at the height of the task of eventually correcting certain attitudes and certain positions in due time. The most invaluable is to think that we're always right, constantly criticizing, and nothing about ourselves changes. The HSU Club will support this strategy. And what we're glad to see is that this strategy was defended by a man to me at least this morning in front of the board, a man who was now a deputy minister, before he was a state secretary with the former minister, so we have one continuity, and the man was doing it very, very, very, very, very fond of him. I haven't seen a man talk so hard about something that he probably felt he should have done before and that a lot of opportunities were missed, but that passion didn't leave him. Therefore, once again, the HSU club will support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112341	Did I understand that he spoke passionately about strategy? ... Yeah, he spoke passionately, and it's not scarred, it's passionate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's a big difference, mate. That's a huge difference. Okay. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112342	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's after the club debate I want to express my satisfaction with the debate it was. So it seems to me that out of 12 clubs only one club has decided that it will not support the strategy, which I believe is an indication that it is a good decision to discuss the strategy in the Croatian Parliament, that in this way one more time it is said that the problems are generally recognised in this document, and they are likely to be the most recognized and possible solutions. And whether these solutions will be resolved or will be achieved, it is now in the executive power and the Parliament to implement it in the next period by 2020. So the percentage of the results of this strategy will be more than 89% more than this in 2008-2011. There are many topics covered by this strategy and which require each of them to have a particularly broad public debate, the system pays in public administration. So this is one topic that the working group at the Ministry of Administration, i.e. in the then Central State Office, was formed in 2006 or 2007. And it's actually all stalled on the pay system whether it's going to be the 0.5 year-on-year internship or it's going to be replaced by some extra for effective work. And then, of course, it's a question of who evaluates effective work and who evaluates evaluators. And if people are given the opportunity to manage people, which ultimately leads to politically appointed persons, then the kind of exposure of officials is greater to the political assessment. And that's what we need to know. So if we go to this kind of change then we come to some kind of exposure to political decisions. If we say that evaluation is an administrative procedure, then we will get a large number of administrative disputes where the court can decide that some assessment is not good, so all the money will have to be returned to the clerk. So this is a kind of social compromise and a low-resistance line resulting in slightly greater independence from officials than politics, but then a little more of their actions, not which they therefore claim to be the right under ordinary law. So these are all the dilemmas we have at this point. Also, as far as the process is concerned, I probably won't reveal the hot water when I say that very often certain state bodies happen independently during which government, I will not say whose governments they are, that they are held exclusively by their own semi-fedal approach and that they don't interpret laws or situations beyond what they really should be because that coordination is something that is very important. Indeed, it is who manages to break it, deliberately use that expression, and reach that consciousness, so that not all of them are locked in their bodies in which they work, but to feel in part of a large system of state administration and therefore look a little wider at the wider picture that it will be a great progress. The big political issue is territorial reconstruction. He'll probably have plenty of opportunities to discuss. And since we have an impelation regarding the rewarding part and making a decision on firing 3% of the weakest, then, given that she also has to come to the hearing soon, it's going to be an opportunity to say something more about that part. A very broad group of people who have worked this Strategy and you can see it on the front page where trade unions and employers who have also supported this Strategy at a joint press conference, then representatives of various NGOs and the academic community who have also contributed to the joint working group shows that, therefore, a great deal of effort has been put into this, and that is one of the justifiable criticism that it could have been before. If it could have been before but not long ago, maybe a few months before now, but I believe that quality, that these few months contributed to the quality of work. Here's a thank you. I've got 10 minutes, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112343	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112344	Thank you very much, President. Here's something I want to say about this document. The document we are discussing today is one in a series of different strategies that this House adopted continuously from the '90s to today, all announced as a kind of revolution of progress, a great need and something without which it simply cannot. The basic question that I am facing today is what will consultants and informers do for the next 5 years if this document is not accidentally adopted. I think he's the only one who actually has the right basis for their future work. Analyzing, i.e. By reading a book called 2012 Development Document Analysis, all documents adopted at the level of the Republic of Croatia are clearly analysed. From 159 development documents from '90 to 2012. The government and the Croatian Parliament adopted 87 documents, no more than 2000/2011. Even 74. For the past three years, we have witnessed for ourselves that there have been other such documents. What is the conclusion of that book? The analysis of the development documents suggests that development management in the Republic of Croatia hardly deserves a passing assessment. The development documents are mostly missing in the financial section, even though it is not negligible for the proportion of those development documents which do not determine either the holder or are deficient for the other two criteria of necessary technical feasibility. There's still a lot to conclude, but I don't have enough time. What am I interested in in this debate? It is a practice and implementation of development documents. When we talk about the public administration, the practice of this government and the application of a new vision of the public administration began at the second extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament when the club ruling with 8 legislative proposals re-interrupted the system of public administration to form a new government at all. From the famous Lex Komadine to the government's structure, up until then, the current democratic achievements have been hit to form one of the largest by number of ministries of the current governments, 20 ministries. Everyone just wanted to be ministers. 9 of them, meanwhile, have given up or been replaced so that we now register with these 20, a total of 29 ministers who have received the title in the past 3.5 years. As a result of the amendments to these laws, local leaders became state officials. Their election-free mandates, without local elections, continued to be treated by their deputies. In the cabinets of the government, no competition is allowed, until then unimaginable, God forbid. The mandatory verification system is simply negligible. The prime minister has put his deputies loyal to him to all ministers. We know from the vice president in the government who is first and most important. So the ministerial assistants, all the directors elected in the contests, were introduced, and then the attack on state officials took place on new structures. Many have been humiliated and driven to replace them with SDP's cards. It was there, as could be read in the media, by fiancées, children of political powers, friends, acquaintances and so forth. The finals of the reform of such a public administration are experienced these days by the story of the need for rationalisation and reduction of public administration, which is supported by the announcement that there is an urgent need to employ 1,800 new people in the state administration, and then, of course, some jobs are offered on the street. Of course, all of this was accompanied by ministerial mathematics, yet he is a mathematician, who varied from month to month, from referendum to referendum, from register to register, from point to point in the Croatian Parliament. Its parliament is famous: we have fewer officials and fewer costs, and we all know there are more, and the Law on State officials has increased all the coefficients so that the assistant minister today has a salary equal to the representative in the Croatian Assembly.... When is it clear to all today that plan 21 has left only cover, which is the goal, and what is the current government to do? I say it's the government's work programme 2011-2015. It all writes nicely, even about the GDP that was to rise to the famous 5% in 2015, but today EUROSTAT says that growth in the first quarter was only 0.1% less than recently presented. Not to read everything, it's too long in 10 minutes, the goals that will be achieved in the concept of the new public administration set by the minister have 6 points, then the minister cites various investments in everything that starts with the letter E, so there are various software, networks, services and, of course, now it transfers everything into a strategy because in 4 years, a lot of things has obviously not arrived. Then another important goal, the financial and political objective is to reduce the relative share of state administration spending in the state budget. Therefore, the mass of budget expenditure for the state administration will grow slower in the next 4-year term than GDP growth. Following GDP growth in the public administration system, no one should have entered, perhaps one or two, but figures say the new ones are somewhere around 2000, according to newly-involved SDP personnel, with the announcement that it takes a very urgent and 1800 more to rationalise this. It doesn't make any sense to me, and it just doesn't work out with each other. Either we rationalize and reduce or we say there's no rationalization and we increase. That's where we came up with that famous saying by one of the most optimistic ministers in the government who says we have a surplus deficit. It's probably the same in the state administration. I am particularly impressed with section 5 of the government's work programme, ensuring resilience to political pressures. This must have been true of all political rivals, i.e. rivals from other parties because the government hasn't left yet, e-mails have gone, ministers' shifts due to famous e-mails. HNS's parallel emails require volunteers to enter the system of state administration, emails are urgated, emails are sought. Even one public company managed to capture the name of SDP's lazy or SDP's company's ear. It's this famous APIS whose director isn't ashamed to say that he's been called daily by several SDPs to take care of someone because there's just no job. Afterwards, I say it is determined by the ministers on the street, and the Prime Minister turns all those loved ones into pestilences. There's just been no work for the last 3.5 years for BOOK AND DORH. By 2011, they were all interested, from 2011 to 2015. To blur the eyes... not worry about the system the minister announces a strategy by 2020 and says now it must be a job more of a government. Here's the thought of a day for me. According to the objectives set, those most important to which citizens have the most complaints are coming to you by 2020. This is page 53, measure 1.6, to remove unnecessary administrative actions, the implementation deadline, the second quarter of 2020, the necessary funds will be subsequently assessed. This means that everything that bothers the citizens, which resents the state administration, should be resolved within the next five years. Take it easy when it gets here. But it's also a very important part that talks about public service employment. Perhaps in those criteria he best spoke i.e. Even early in this strategy, the mayor of Split, Mr Baldasar, who, by hiring a SDP secretary in Split, found that she was having a hard time losing her unemployment, so he simply found her a job and hired her. It is also a great idea in the field of employment, but obviously one of the primary criteria of public administration work over the past few years. What did 270 thousand unemployed mean, the number of others who were not recorded at all, or all those who went outside probably nobody cares too much. Or another case, one of the HNSs who won the election for the head of the Municipality of Gornja Stubica, was also the director of a public firm, and then came into conflict of interest, and then the day before he left, he invented his own position as a consultant, and today he is also the head of the public firm as well. Or the shifts of the Coxar Supervisory Board from Bakar directed by the HNS members. Only two sentences from the media that transmitted the content of emails about the shift. According to the famous one, Ratkovic writes to Grujic about the change of the Supervisory Board to which he is chaired: old, so we'll make a nice deal, and that's what he writes, and Grujic answers him: motive is important, of course, to get HDZ people out of the Supervisory Board, they don't deserve to be inside, especially not at the expense of our people. We have a case of a man who was to be hired at the Zagreb Airport when e-mails were also cursed. The man declared himself vice director of the airport, the minister found out and said the assistants were playing. And in the final part of the e-mail, I'm asking you to organize an execution as a competent assistant. So we have a series of cases and a strategy that's been shown to have jobs like this, that we need to frame many of our people, and today we're bringing a strategy says not in the first or second year when you have time to do something but in the last part of your term, so you leave it to someone to worry about it after you. It's a blurring 4 years of public administration neglect, an attempt to create a state of confusion, and the election will also bring something else. I do not think that this strategy in the government's 2011 and 2015 plan and work is foreseen in any letter. That's why I might say best as a strategy to call that famous number of Minister Milenic 098/477-911. I think we know who's gonna answer the other one, of course, if he hasn't changed his phone number in the meantime, or we can if we're already introducing a code-coded job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112345	Thank you, too, but the expression we've got too much missing is a good term. Intrusion on the side, you can't hear. You can't. You should wait. Minister, we're going to do the replicas first. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112346	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, first one correction. You said EUROSTAT said GDP growth is 0.1%, which is not true. They said that 0.01% is far less because it is measured in Croatia in another way, and these are actually manipulations of this government as is this Strategy. I don't know, maybe Minister Bauk is aware of the loss of choice so he might be providing himself a job with this strategy, because you've noticed well what consultants and informers will do, so you said for five years if this strategy doesn't adopt. So here's what I'm going to tell you, just one of the measures that ITs are going to do, that's what consultants are going to do. To measure 12.1, the establishment of an ethical system in the public administration is guaranteed 5 and a half million kuna, and they will first establish general standards of public administration behaviour, and then, when they are established, they will prescribe general standards of behaviour in the public administration and how they are implemented, adopt ethical codes of conduct by public-law bodies in accordance with the general standards of behaviour in public administration. And that this strategy is holding back certain investments you've been talking about is a measure 1.6 that says it's time for the implementation of the second quarter of 2020. And the minister says that the HUP has given a positive assessment of this strategy, so now to our dear entrepreneurs with all possible administrative and bureaucratic executions still remain, it means for the next five years to deal with such misunderstandings in the Republic of Croatia according to the Public Administration Strategy and to this extent 1.6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112347	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112348	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, when we talk about GDP growth, there have been a lot of words here in this House for three and a half years, all kinds of sayings, hopes, and everything has been created, i.e. Somehow things came together for us this year, i.e. We recently have the first time in history that anyone announces when we're leaving the recession. Seven or eight days before someone says Friday we're leaving the recession. Maybe here, for me, maybe it was the night between Thursday and Friday, it doesn't matter. But sometimes that data was more serious. You couldn't just find out by telling someone at the Statistics Office, and then after today, this news today that it's not exactly like that, it's not 0.5, it's 0.1. The question is, what I often mention here, have we become the state of wrong methodologies? Because we can't calculate how many voters we have, or how many residents we have, or how many people we have who have left the country, how many unemployed formally, informally. There is simply no methodology to determine both the success and the responsibility of this authority, and then it is best for them to boast themselves. And they say we're the best government so far, so be my guest, folks, accept it and rejoice with us. And the people in the elections will make it clear what they are already feeling, which is that this is the worst government so far and that, regardless of all these fine and beautiful stories, because we have been here for several months in this House talking about nothing that would contribute to a little improvement in at least those economic hardships of Croatian citizens, but a report to the report and a little time goes by. But I'm saying, time is getting smaller and the strategy passed at the last minute is still part of it for me, and I guess it'll bring in irresponsibility. It's been a while and a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112349	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112350	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Boric, you have well established that there is an excess hearing shortage, given that 20 ministries, 25 administrations, offices and offices, 35 agencies are all public services that are actually a question of who they are using, who they are not using, who are benefiting from, and who are making it difficult for our citizens to get help and what our citizens need. What do you say about the Department of Administration? I think it's a safe surplus with all its officers. What the county administration used to do is the same thing I can do today. I think that absolutely this is all other excesses as well as agencies that conduct the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not do their jobs, and in particular we show the Agriculture Land Agency which has not put any hectare of agricultural land into office since the announced million hectares that will put it into office. Well, there are other agencies, offices and foundations. As you yourself listed the office i.e. DUDI, a former State Property Management Agency that cannot be reached for two years or should be reached through friends or perhaps with a party card. It's all things that say that it's actually a general mess. It might have been nicer if they had put 21 ministries in, so Plan 21 would have been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112351	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112352	Thank you very much. But now there's Plan 22 and there can be a catch. And now of course we've all found that, I mean, Plan 21 never existed. That's what we hear every day from all the media bombings. Probably us in the hands that we've reached, we have the wrong document. And that is why I keep calling for official and we adopted this here in the Croatian Parliament, which is the programme of government work 2011/2015. And that's what I'm quoting, and I'm saying that everything you've set out of the goals you haven't achieved except for this extra shortfall, and that's these 29 ministers who are still 20 of them, and 9 of them are gone, and then obviously those 120 assistants are if I hit it because we don't even know it, so we've got 20 deputies and everything else that's going on and it's changing. We have an interesting situation that the government has replaced us with two leaders we've discussed but I guess the agency is beheaded completely, simply no one knows if they're guilty, whether they're guilty or not. It was all there, I'm just stating what was media interesting and what could be said, found out today. I'm sorry to say those bodies that need to be handled didn't act as zealously as they did by 2011, they just go over the fact that furniture competitions, emails go through, that some ministers say, so here if you're in SDP, we'll find places or I know what's not spinning through the media space and it's becoming something that's perfectly normal. And then we're talking about the public administration that's responsible, which should be better, etc. And we see that the top of all that just doesn't fit the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112353	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112354	Well, here's my colleague, Boric, in the strategy, touched it, and counterpart Skvaric writes as one of the shortcomings of the larger in this part of corruption, nepotism, all of which is particularly expressed in the units of local self-government. But since you mentioned the company... I'm a witness to these events, and we've seen from the media what's going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in the shift of the Supervisory Board set up by this same government in 2012 in March when this Supervisory Board was composed of 2 scientists from the Economic Institute here in Zagreb, building engineers and lawyers appointed this director, this director by correspondence of e-mails, we were able to read from the media, with Mr. Leveric, Kružić, Ratkovic and assistants and the Deputy Minister of Economy are replacing the Supervisory Board. The epilogue of all that was not later published in the media is that the same members of the supervisory board have been sued and sued and paid for. At the end of all these stories, the government finally made a decision to liquidate the same company, and it is now in the winding-up process. And that the absurdd of all this would be greater that director still receives the salary of those six months, and the company hotel "Adriatic" down in Bakr that owns that same company today works in a way that the employees of that company that is state-owned do not receive their salaries. And now we're talking about something that's not in this strategy, and what's happening on the ground, and what the government has done so far, and how it worked, that we're not saying that there are practically two of them from one ministry. We have the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and we have the Ministry of Economy. This way people change and set up, companies fall apart, and it's all someone's paying for. And speaking of a strategy that can cover all the best intentions, it has great plans, with such laws as we have adopted before it and which apply at this point in the field of the Republic of Croatia will be impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112355	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112356	My colleague Klaric, yes, here I repeat that famous correspondence, I mean old means we'll make a nice deal and that's what he writes and put on a smile like that. And Gruic suits them with an important motive, of course, to get HDZ's people out of the board of directors, they don't deserve to be inside, and especially not at the expense of our people. And now we're listening to the President of the Parliament and we appreciate his discussions in the sense that he's telling us how to behave our government, your government, and here you see that e-mails say our people and yours out. It's visible here. And now why is HNS the most agile in it? I don't know, they probably had the most reason to, and it's not the only case. I'm telling you, and those famous e-mails make sure you report back to us by that date. Well, I mean, it's a question of how public administration works for us. You took power as prey, Minister. You shouldn't have done that, you all went to the government together, and then it went down. We simply divide everything we have and throw out everything we don't like out of that administration and now we propose a strategy to make it better and more modern. Well, I think probably if you think you'll be able to spend it then it's not too late, but I argue responsibly listening to any Croatian citizens that you won't be doing it because there's just a lot of things that are listed here and there's a lot that would even be agreed on. But practice, and that's what I've been talking about, shows that these development papers collude up to the adoption and simply disappear in drawers, and many haven't even spent their time in the first sentence. And then it's a legitimate question and why we bring them in, and then my answer, and what will consultants do, informers after this year's 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112357	Dear Boris, thank you very much for your commendation but if I had your logic then I would say this Croatia is what it is but for its situation HDZ has been responsible for 18 years and the other 7 years. That's logic. And we are all responsible, we are all responsible because the opposition also has a very important role and responsibility. It's part of democratic standards. We have the next line, the respected representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112358	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, here's an esteemed colleague after your debate, I'm starting to believe in aliens today, so I guess he's an alien when he falls from Mars to the ground, and then he's surprised to see what happened to GDP growth 0.5% and maybe 0.1 and that's not good. Let us not forget that some 7, 8 years ago, in 2007, this GDP was shaken by 7-8% of which we were barely able to recover today thanks to the statements of the former minister, etc. who spoke very well we remember that we are not in recession, that the prime minister said that we are in bananas etc. But we'll make it easy. I think we all remember it very well together, and we should remember it, and we're not that short of a memory. Little by your part that someone who achieves 0.5% of growth should politically disappear from the face of the country, and someone who put this country in this situation as is supposed to get the unspeakable help and support of his population and Croatian voters. At the same time, I am also the mayor of the city of Leprechaun very sad. I'm sad because unfortunately what you've shown so far and that's exactly the state's administration isn't very functional, it's that I'm all spinning around Remetinco, around the state administration. No other half of your government, Prime Minister, and the entire almost party should come to my town of Lepoglava. And we need to work a little bit in this strategy to make the state administration, the prison system a little bit stronger because it will really need to be strengthened, efficient, and there is a lot of need in this Croatia to put things in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112359	I respect your objections. Not the whole party, they're honest people. The leadership is one thing, the legal person is another. It should be precise, it's okay. The leadership should be condemned for being convicted. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112360	Thank you very much. Comrade Skuric, you don't have to be so angry. I see that's what hit you. I only cited examples of HNS. If I were to go into all these others, it would be two hours from now, you understand? And now why are some where you mentioned them, and these others are gone, I ask what the services are doing, i.e. What are state institutions doing? Because I'm saying and I said in the debate that they were very interested I don't know about this case or the one until 2011, and after 2011, peace, quiet, nice. The APIS director says they call me every day ten of them, and I sort it out neatly, and everything's fine. But no one asked him anything. So how's he gonna get there if nobody asked him anything? Either I don't know these stories about the board of directors here or the employment there. As far as GDP growth is concerned, I'm just quoting what you wrote as government, and you supported it here and raised your hand, the gradual growth of GDP to reach 5% in 2015. Read that program of government work. Well, I guess that's not all we in the opposition are gonna read. So what are you working on? Well, you have to read every day. And then when you say 0.5 we say okay, and this one says 0.1 today. And what's my fault now? I convey the news that I read somewhere and, of course, determine what I've found is possible for growth and this and this and that in these small developments, but the issue is structurally what we've done to go stronger and better and now we're offering a strategy. Here's the public administration, so far we've done what we've done, who's settled in, and now there's a new strategy going on, and now we're going by the rules. We've seen that before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112361	Thank you, too. Final address by the Minister of Administration on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112362	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the inspired presentation of MP Boric. I was expecting because I've been following his work for some time and listening to any people I'd like you to be high in the eighth constituency because you won't get too much money there, and then again it would be a real shame for such an opposition representative to have in the second term no problem at all. So, as far as your findings on various strategies are concerned, it's basically true, that's what I've said several times as an agent, but I also said that this strategy is a list of beautiful desires, the only question is whether these wishes will be achieved or not. I am very confident that most will be done, if we are not already like Croatia, I do not think now yours, in that sense, so if we as Croatia are not motivated to be motivated by our partners from the EU, because this strategy was included among other things and recommended by people from the European Commission. And she is, some things in her are also the result of their action as collegiate or as we call it. And this strategy has been assessed in Brussels with positive assessments, which is why we proposed it to the Croatian Parliament. As far as consultants and ITs are concerned, first of all, to say immediately that making this strategy cost nothing but, of course, the salaries of the officers who worked on it, they would have done so, so there were no external consultants or informers. This is not the case with all strategies regardless of where the mandate was being held, but indeed this strategy is indeed a political document that provides answers to some questions and some questions for which it does not ask, for which there is no political will giving diplomatic answers quite broadly so that compensation can be applied when a decision is taken. And I know what consultants and ITs won't do, they won't make movies about this strategy so that in that sense you can be calm. As for the so-called so-called. the term is not written in the term, it may be the biggest lack of strategy. So, as far as the numbers are concerned, I very much like the precise answers to precise questions. And you quite often like to mention this part about the number of voters and you have somehow begun to repeat it, and that was the matter of interpreting the Constitution, when the Constitutional Court interpreted that constitutional norm, then when this referendum on the referendum was called up, then the signatures began to collect at midnight, and at midnight and six minutes the organisers of the referendum had the exact number to collect the signatures. So you see that's progress, it's good. Now let's talk about other numbers. Data on the number of civil servants and deputies in state bodies without judicial authorities per year. 1.1.2008. 56 241, 31.12.2009 is therefore after two years 56 118 or is reduced in those two years by 126. 31.10.2010.So ten months later 55 442 or 700 less, one part of the reduction was due and the transfer of the paying agency from the state service to agriculture was no longer counted, but less. Then comes 23.12.2011. the day of the vote of confidence to the Government of the Republic of Croatia 55 586 or 400 and 144 more than a year before, despite the ban on employment, and some people went into retirement. Now, that was also pre-election as we're going to call it, not 2011, it's up to the election. So in 2011, despite the ban on employment, the number of civil servants increased by 140 and something. Here, I'm quite certain that this information today that you would find a way to describe it and that you would still be really inspired I believe that. Then in 2012, 1st of January 55,309 or within 8 days 270 less, as a consequence of the fact that at the end of the year those who are 65 years of age stop, the 200 would be less, regardless of the change in government, the 200 cannot be prescribed as a merit that we have now spent something significant in those 7 days. Then comes 1.1.2013, 54.931 or 300 or less, let's not be too much but less than any year you've been in your last term. Then we started, 1.1.2014. 54,088 or 850 less and 1st January 2015 52,695 or 1,400 less than the year before and 2,500 less than the day when the government's trust was voted, which means that with the state service plan for 2015, the state authorities were given the right to discuss the competition and some would do so and the process of receiving the plan could end in 2016 or even 2017 if the appeal procedure would be repeated several times. And it is quite certain that this number will not reach 53,000, which means that it will certainly be at least 1,000 less than 2014. Now, if the number of civil servants is constantly reduced, if the salary amounts are constantly reduced if they are accurately detected where this is happening in the largest police systems in the IRS at the Ministry of Finance, etc. Then the question arises about what kind of so-called. We're talking about infatuation. So we can talk about someone hiring who is a member of a party and HDZ, but a large number of people who are employed are probably not members of any party, most likely that's the way it is. But if you ask the state authorities for information on how many solutions they have brought to the service over the last 3.5 years, then you'll probably get the information. I can tell you about the Department of Management that this number is zero. Three officers on the revolving door that's going to leave is zero, some transfer. But those who were admitted to the service that their first job was the Ministry of Administration were zero. But good. Let's move on. As far as government officials are concerned, we made it very clear that we didn't hide it at all. So the management of state officials who were directors of the administration were, in many cases, politically appointed assistant ministers who had been turned into civil servants. And so would you, but you couldn't because you didn't have the conditions, so you became Secretary of State. Let's put it that way. And now you of us want us to accept these assistant ministers who have been politically appointed to you as non-political government officials. We said transparently, so these people are officials, they will stay in the service, most of them have been given and placed in the first next official post, some have not. They complained, some got that slow and some didn't and it was very transparently said. But that's why we put three or four or five state secretaries in one deputy's ministries. And when the number of state secretaries and directors of the administration were summed up, and when the number of assistants and deputy ministers was added up, there were some more ministers, that number was somewhere a third smaller than before. So that's what we said a few times. And since 300 people in those 8 days stopped their service, we had a lot less civil service employees within 8 days with all of them who you said were appointed and increased than it was 8 days ago. And that's me here, and when we represented that law, I was still an advocate and I spoke. As for the optimism and optimism of certain state officials, there are optimists with cover and optimists without cover. And when some minister makes an economic forecast, he's very easy to argue with, and they make fun of him and make him an optimist, and when it turns out he's wrong to get another one. And it happened for a while, but then it stopped happening because the indicators started talking about things happening. Now, this is yesterday, this is the construction sector, and now I don't think it's right that we comment on DZS and Eurostat data when it suits us, and we make fun of it when it doesn't suit us. So you should point out some bad examples and some good examples, and then because of the balance, you've been pointing out pretty bad, so I'm going to point out the good ones. So, when we got out of recession, the first quarter when it was positive GDP was 4th quarter of 2014, it started 1/10.4.00 hours, so then there was a trend change, so it's from today to 1/10.4. As for the peoples, so in our political practice and everyday political life, Nostradamus was introduced as a factor, so here I am glad that tradition and the people continued with it. But we will see any people in the elections when they are. Mr. Mlakar didn't count well, it's a simple mathematical operation. So if the elections are within the constitutional deadline, which is 7th, 14th or 21st of February 2016, then those other elections can be again in the constitutional deadline of 4th month 2020 and remains with that government for 7th, 8 months, so I haven't discovered any exclusivity by then, I've still stressed that it's done until the end of 2020. And therefore, I am actually convinced that no matter what political option it was that would not take much away from this strategy. So, apart from the principled remarks of the concept whether it's called cloud or not, we haven't actually heard anything that would determine a significantly different direction of public administration development by 2020. The territorial structure we haven't touched, these are things that could be read in both professional analyses and during one of the past governments that I don't say yours and it's just a question of whether or not it will, whether or not it will be implemented. So the progress that's happened over the past few years, regardless of the convenient statements that nothing happened, I'm going to say a few things. So not only can Mr. Skvarić have a birth certificate, did you mention a birth certificate, not that you can get it anywhere in Croatia, it could not be obtained anywhere by 2013. You couldn't get it in Zagreb but you could get it all over Croatia because the queens ran two companies, one in Zagreb and the other outside Zagreb, and now all citizens can get it online. So they print it off the Internet. And not only that, but 25 other services in the system of e-Citizens. Some of this had been prepared before because the consultants had already worked as informers, the informers had not started working since 2012 nor the consultants. And as for the central salary account, I said that again, so it was established in 2014 and something started working with FINA and 2011. And as for this APIS you mentioned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2008 that all records of the state of the citizens should therefore be submitted to the APIS and that the register of employees in 2011 should be resigned, i.e. to be done by FINA, both institutions that are, this 51% owned by the state and FINA is a public agency that also works, which is owned by the state. So, and then these informers, these state informers are something more expensive, I'm not very happy with theirs, but then how they show that money, so we can discuss it in the budget, but it's usually a lot easier for each official when he works with a state-owned company because he is a different owner. It is therefore, in some ways, safer because of the information that is available. And we found state queens and voters' registers, a list of voters in the hands of a private company with whom there were no 3, 4 years of contracts, and then if a case of the type of referendum or election came, then they would charge for everything they didn't pay for in regular maintenance, so the same thing finally came to us. So it's not exactly that we need to go into so much detail right now because this is how I would talk about what I remember. As for the situation that the Ministry of Administration is surplus, so I am not surprised that you think so, Mr Djakic, since in the two mandates of the HDZ which lasted 8 years, the Ministry of Administration became in 2 years and did not become in 6 years, so this is the continuity that would not have become even in 2009 that there was no change in the president and Prime Minister so that Mr Mlakar would still have to be raised to the level of the ministry. It wasn't exactly a strategic move then, it was a political move and it was legitimate. So, as far as the Ministry of Administration is concerned, it's not any institution that's been permanent. So it used to be just the Ministry of Administration, and then for a long time it was with the Ministry of Justice, and then it came out of the Justice Department and it became the Central State Office and now here it has been for 5.5 years. What happens after the election, we'll see. Maybe it's getting stronger. I'd normally like to. Yeah, looks like a strategy. [[The President's intrusion: Is the strategy deciding or not?]] As far as the strategy is concerned, she's talking about processes. That's it. [[The President's incursion: Now, that's what I'm curious about.]] Well, if I got out of line, although the agenda point is pretty wide, we also got a grudge that we didn't cover hospitals and theaters, and that's it. But that's why we have a culture strategy and a health development strategy so I don't know what else to do besides defining the pay system that will be for the entire public administration. Mr. President, I won't be long. I thank all the MPs who stayed until the end of the debate. I thank all those who have supported and thanked all those who have constructively criticised and those who have less constructively criticised. I hope that we have answered everyone right and here I look forward to the joint implementation of the strategy in whatever capacity I will have the opportunity to do so by the end of 2020 and hopefully later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112363	Thank you very much. Despite your joy, we have two replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112364	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you say a downsizing of employment, and there was no tampering. Or as I would call it, a deep cleaning of all ministries, all those who knew something, worked and trained professionally to prepare for the use and funds of the European Union and all those tasks that were ahead. Because professional and quality personnel are gone, i.e. The deep-cleaned Ministry of Agriculture received 232 remarks from the European Commission on the rural development plan and therefore it was late as nothing else. I mean regional development, so we don't talk about what happened there. Also not to say what it was in 2000, 987 broom chases. I took out all their names so that I could remember them so they could present what you did as well as this time under the pretext we got trust and there's no one to ask. Because these people's policies of deep cleaning and infatuation have contributed to the return of Croatia, to the failure of goals or strategies, to convince people that everyone is living better today just because they don't feel it. We heard that the last time we heard it the same way. It just probably feels Chuck Norris.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112365	Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112366	Chuck Norris is an interesting character. He certainly would have responded in less than seven days to the... charges, but well, it doesn't matter. So as for the deep, as you said, deep-cleaning and EU funds, so as far as deep-cleaning is concerned, I think someone mentioned in the debate that only 8 officials were fired. Well, that doesn't seem like very deep cleaning, it's more like just polishing and very small surfaces. ... Even the pedicure, Mr. President, thank you, I didn't think of that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the largest number of officials today by institutions is less in the Ministry of the Interior, so the police are not, is important but not for the EU funds. And as for the EU funds, so at the end of last year, Croatia was one of the seven countries that approved the operational programmes, the two most important we had, which we did, we were somewhat more motivated to do it because we were a new member, the others had old operational programmes, so it was just continuity. And as far as EU funds are concerned, this strategy will enable the use of a large amount of EU funds and our responsibility has been to the Croatian Parliament to propose it and here we have therefore done so. I hope the Parliament adopts on Friday. As for those who were fired in 2000, you are HSS and HSLS, who were then the strike force of the coalition, tow them with you so that you ask them that we do not have to answer to everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112367	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112368	I've got a lot of stuff, I've been writing in order, so let's get out of line. Making fun of growth, not making fun of growth, I listed the government's programme, the government's expectations, that was the goal. What has been achieved... in the public and today's EUROSTAT report. So there's no mockery but numbers as they are. Second, you mentioned the 8th electoral unit. You'll have a problem there as SDP and your coalition. That's where Ivo Josipovic goes, as far as I hear, and that's his favorite. Now that Ivo Josipovic says... When he says I'm waiting for the day when the SDP will become the leader of good reforms then that's not what the HDZ said, the man who supported the SDP in the campaign said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Many parliamentary deputies were in that headquarters. So it's not a mockery again, it's what he says. And it goes there, Damir Cain, has five minutes every morning, goes there Slavko Linic, former minister, probably nuts. Well, there's still a combination there, a combination. I'd take care of the SDP position, say, in your section at the 8th constituency, you know. There's no room for anything out there, and it doesn't matter about me later or anything. As for the number of employees, here's how numbers can be tricky. Page 62 of the strategy, 56220. ... One number has a minister, one number has a strategy to adopt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 56220, 1.1.2015 and I'm listening here until 53 we got there, if I got it right. It means he's been or has been stepped up from the state administration for the last five months, and I don't think anyone's crazy enough to go because there's no job anywhere but you probably haven't been looking well again. And where still those trainees are Mrsic's 1600 employees, that's never mentioned. Where are they? There are 100% of them, and he's talking about the 25,000 whoo-hoo who ended up right in the public administration's bodies, you want local self-government to the state. As for the number of voters, you played a referendum on the number of voters, and we can write everything else down in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112369	Thank you. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112370	It used to be said I'm going to have a written discussion, so maybe we can do business here. I didn't mean growth. I didn't mean you in general. I didn't even mean you in that sense. As far as the 8th constituency is concerned, you have more to worry about. The higher the competition, you get 3 there, that's somewhere okay, if you get 4 then you're like this, and so much so that you get 2 you're not so weak anymore because you took it, so it's somewhere my grade. These 11 are going to be arranged somehow, so you don't have to be afraid of it, like a pupil's eye. As far as these numbers are concerned, yes, I emphasized to the speaker that it's a matter of law enforcement. So the state bodies, the judicial authorities and the courts, the state's attorney's office, are working there by advisors who are officials and that executive authority, as you know for sure, has no influence on that part, although you have mentioned several times in the presentation of the work of these institutions, but well, I keep it part of the political outwitting. And what was the last thing I didn't answer, I can't remember now? ... So as for the number of voters, here I urge you this way to ask a parliamentary question and ask the Minister of Administration to deliver his testimony to the Constitutional Court about the number of voters because everyone is talking about it, and no one can ask what you wrote to the Constitutional Court, manipulated them and deceived them, so you deceived them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Turns out that's where the people I've managed to get them and everyone else are sitting, otherwise you haven't broken up for that referendum as much as I think you are. So HDZ wasn't exactly... That is because it was 28th, because Mr Boric took effect on 28th of December 2014 by the provisions of the Law on residence which reduced the number of voters in Croatia by 200,000, which was otherwise the request of the HDZ 2013. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112371	Dear colleagues and colleagues, given the course and content of the discussion on the strategy, allow me a small business freedom. May I? With your permission, we'll finish the record properly. So, according to my humble assessment of good and clear laws, their responsibility is here. Good rules and clear sublegal acts, accurate and accurate state records, then good courts, and in particular good urban implementation plans and land books, we will have no problems with the state administration or with the strategy. You gave me freedom, so I said so. So if we haven't properly identified the current situation, we certainly can't fix it. If we've identified him then we can. I'm closing the debate now. There's no replica here, unfortunately, unfortunately for you there's no replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're finishing today's plenary session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. and this point of the five current agenda Final bill, not the annual report. Four, item four – Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014. Thank you very much. See you tomorrow! Proposal for a public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 The debate on the text of the strategy is over. The amendment was submitted by representative Marija Lugaric. I'd like Minister Arsen Bauk to make a statement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112373	The government accepts all amendments by Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-10-0.u112374	Very rational, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 4 votes were abstentions and 14 votes against, the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 was adopted, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendment adopted.
