ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106716	Furio Radin, esteemed colleague. Excuse me. We're listening to a respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At least I can tell you why we're looking for a break. Thank you very much. So colleagues and colleagues due to the alarming state and the emergence of violence in the media and not reacting to any form of abuse, threats and violence in the media I seek a break on behalf of the HDZ club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106718	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin has his hand in the air, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106719	Due to the termination of the class, national minority schools departments are looking for a break on behalf of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106720	National schools, schools. A colleague of Damir Kaja's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106721	So is it possible, a man asks himself the question that Croatia will have to set aside around 50m euros in order to save Greece. We can't even withdraw all the money we pay Brussels and now we should give around 50m euros annually to Greeks who have higher salaries, higher pensions than Croatian citizens and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106722	What would you call your colleague Caine the subject, Croatia in the EU or Croatia's exit?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106723	Greek money, drama to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106724	I didn't hear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106725	Greek money, drama to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106726	Branko Vuksic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106727	On behalf of the media club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106728	Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106729	It's about the media, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106730	Five club representatives asked for a break on different topics. We continue with the usual practice, we'll take a break at 10:15. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:15 A.M.]] We're going back to work. Dear representative of the Suncana Glavak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to express serious concern over the violence that took place by raiding masked robbers in the Croatian weekly. I believe you know what I'm talking about. To ask ourselves if there is a intention to intimidate anyone in the Croatian media space and what are the motives for direct intrusion and attack into one editorial. I will also remind the recently beaten journalist Željko Peratovic, I will also remind Croatian radiotelevision journalist Helena Krmpotić of whom the criminal inspector who testified at the Higher Earth Court in Munich said that the pressure is particularly on the daughters of Helena Krmpotić, Croatian journalist and Gabriela Krmpotić, Kosovo's head of KIC in Zagreb, and when the father of the same journalist addressed the letter to HRT chief director Goran Radman, not to resign his daughter and that he will no longer testify at the trial of Perkovic. My colleagues and colleagues, do people in the media world who talked about the secret services of several states get hurt? What if something like that had happened, God forbid there was an incursion in the evening list, in the morning list, in Novosti? We'd all be on a pillar of shame. Why is there no public conviction on this? Threats, physical accounts, intimidation, isn't that important, isn't it because it's about journalists because it's about individuals? There's no wider social condemnation, no one's ever talked about it. The Croatian journalistic society, unfortunately, is talking about cases of journalists, indeed selectively. They didn't say anything about this. We expect the same from the police to act, to find the perpetrators, not to, as in the case of the swastika, we do not know yet who disgraced the Croatian state. And this is embarrassing in the worst possible way. We at the HDZ Club strongly condemn every form of violence against anyone. We're looking for freedom of expression and protection of media and journalists. From this pay phone many times we talked about what's going on at the public service of HRT, I'll just briefly remind you what our reactions were, what the results were. The single mother of two children killed herself for mobbing and firing at HRT, after which her friend, who talked about it, also got fired. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, the mother of four children, was fired because of an internal email. Because of the verbal deliction, Elizabeth Gojan and Hlorka Novak Srzic were fired. Programme Council member Jozo Barisic is under threat of firing because he talked about irregularities. Branimir Farkash must also be manifested or he will be fired. What's going on? Why aren't we responding? We can't close our eyes that something is going on in Croatia, we'll just be surprised when journalists come out without media freedoms and we'll wonder what happened in Croatia. This is what happens to colleagues and colleagues. We ask the government to protect every citizen, every man, as well as those whose job is to talk about all the irregularities that have been happening in our society. But is it too much to ask the government? Is that too much to ask for the unemployed, the decommissioned, the blocked, the government that's the 6th most unsuccessful in the world? Is that a reflection of the serious crisis in our society? Is this a serious threat to morale and all the values of Croatian society? My colleagues and colleagues, we must speak loudly about all this and ask for the culprits to be found and to stop violence against journalists and in the media space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106733	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Now we have an honorary representative Furi Radin, a school of students on a national minority programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One effective way to assimilate national minorities is to deny their right to education. This can be achieved in several ways, but one is certainly effective and that is when class classes are abolished because of a small number of students enrolled. There was already one attempt with primary schools last year when together we representatives of national minorities reacted and dared to abolish classes with few students in one common way because it actually constitutes a violation of international acts. We then conditioned our vote to support the government and this indicates how important these problems are to us. This year it happens in three out of four Italian high schools, not to mention a Hungarian national minority where neither the programmes are accepted nor where the employment that belongs to them and which means a lot to that minority is not approved. So at 3 out of 4 high schools in Pula, Bujam and Rijeka, classes were abolished even though orientations were approved. Why? Because there's a small number of students. There were a small number of students, and during communism, no classes were abolished. There were a small number of students, and during Franjo Tudjman, classes were not abolished, classes were not abolished. It was both later and during the Racans and during Sanader and during Mrs. Kosor, they did not stop. Suddenly, this has become important now, although there has been a clear decision by the Constitutional Court since 1999, where it says that the abolition of the class, class classes because of a small number of students, so that such consistent implementation would not result in a significant breach and the negation of minority rights acquired, which is contrary to international contracts. Like the '96 contract. between Croatia and Italy on the protection of national minorities. You say there's a few of us, so we know there's a few of us, so that's why we're a minority, there's a million of us less than 1945. Why? Is that our fault? A million less, of which 300 thousand, 300 thousand Italians less. Is that our fault? ... Yeah, yeah, that's my problem, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's my problem. My problem is that today we are less than necessary to form a class in Croatian schools. There is a constitutional decision against it, there is a law on education in the languages and letters of national minorities that says it can go below that number. There are international agreements and there are ministers who don't respect it. I call the Secretary of the Navy and tell him that it is against both international contracts and constitutional decision and a law requiring two-thirds of the vote. Is that enough for that? Is that enough that when that same attempt was made for primary schools that the National Minorities Club said, well, all right, that it was very important anyway, for us it was very important, together we said it was vital to us and for that it was denied the support of the government. I think there'll be solidarity this time. And if you want to ask me if it was better during communism and during Franjo Tudjman, yes, it was better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106735	Thank you very much. We continue the presentation of representatives' clubs on their subject, free of charge. Damir Cain, a respected representative of Croatia and Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106736	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, I agree with my colleague that this terror against journalists should be stopped and that police should be found as soon as possible before those who have entered Zadar in the Croatian weekly. They need to find those perpetrators far faster than they are looking for the authors of the cowardly cross in Split. But it would be just as good if the media terror of parts of Istrian media on individuals also stopped. Because you don't know what's worse about what's going on in Zadar or what's happening to some of us in Istria. But let me go back to Greece now. It is known that Croatia is misrepresenting funds from the European Union. In fact, we're paying more than we're pulling. What's even worse, Brussels sets priorities for us, so we're also at a good minus. But that's not the end, now we have a European Commission that has the idea of helping Greece through a fund that would be filled by all the countries of the European Union, not just euro area countries. So those in the euro system. And it is reported that Croatia would have to pay or allocate around 50m euros for the time being, or rather, any Croatian worker should pay 300 kuna to Greece, and more solidarity should be paid to 300 kuna. We all know that the Croatian worker has far less salary than the worker in Greece, that the Croatian pensioner also has far less salary than the one in Greece. You all also know that the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia is far less than Greek. The only thing that we are about as in charge as in Greece is that unlike Greece, we can serve those obligations. It has recently come out, and therefore I have reported higher than this Guardian report where 8 European states are currently in debt crisis. Greece, among other things, also cited Croatia. Companies and citizens, also recently spoke of by Finance Minister Boris Lalovac, are more in charge than those in Greece, according to Eurostat's 2013 figures. Private sector debts in Croatia amount to 143.7% of GDP and 135.6% in Greece. However, Greece's debt is higher because private debt needs to be added to their public debt of 177% of GDP. Public debt as we know the Republic of Croatia is about 88% of GDP. That our companies and citizens are more in charge than the Greeks said that two months ago, the finance minister also confirmed, citing the Croatian private sector's debt to be more than 420 billion kuna. And if a public debt of 285 billion kuna is added to the total of Croatia's public debt at the moment is 700 billion kuna or almost 200% of GDP. I said, we can still serve international and domestic obligations to our creditors. Greece will be helped with 86 billion euros or $100 billion. Our 50m euros is, say, 50% Učka tunnel construction or is one general hospital with no equipment built in Pula at this time with the help of the Croatian state 75%, local self-government 25% The Minister of Finance must explain to European bureaucrats the weight, seriousness of the Croatian economic mix and, in some ways, under quotes, save us from another obligation. Solid yes, but I think someone should also respect the simple problems in which the country is presently located.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106737	Thank you very much, dear colleague Damir Cain. We continue the topic of the media, respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106738	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We often talk here in the press conference, and not because of the pretty ones, but because of the ugly pictures. Although I disagree with 99% of the views held by the Croatian weekly in Zadar, I strongly condemn the attack on the Croatian weekly and indeed began to fear in the media space in Croatia. However, some of us are also to blame for that. Earlier, a colleague named Glavak listed those journalists who have recently been fired. Most unfortunately, they are on public media and on Croatian television. However, on HTV, Mrs Gojan was fired because of pressure in the Parliament, because of her attitude, because she was attacked by this speaker and because the principal director complied with the interests of individual representatives or individual groups. So we here, too, need to watch what we say and how we plead to the press, and we must always defend that the journalist has the right to stand. What happened in Zadar in the Croatian weekly is absolutely certain, although editor-in-chief Ivica Marijačić said that motives can be both political and criminal and terrorist, Croatian state services should investigate and find the culprit as soon as possible, condemn the culprit. A correction to an incorrect allegation, before the Croatian Journalist Society condemned the robbery act in Zadar and also asked the state institutions to act as quickly as possible. But journalists are not only exposed to physical violence, they are exposed to the pressures of owners and certain political groups. We remember that the New List also announced that the journalist would be fired and was already on notice, he was fired because by passing on an interview, he expressed his position. Fortunately, it wasn't the worst thing that happened. After all, the conscience worked. In Free Dalmatia, there was also a resignation or journalists canceled their own co-operation because of political pressures, because of the owner's pressure on them. On HTV, which should be a model, which should be a meter for journalism, there is fear. The vanity of a man on HTV is stronger than any principle, as well as the principle that a journalist has the right to express his position. The journalists were not fired when they injured, materially injured the rules, but were fired when they expressed their position, especially when they expressed their position on the work of Mr. Radman's chief director. That's not how it used to be done with journalists in times of communism. We know well, remember the performance speech here, one of the speeches, were rare in the Croatian Assembly when at the time of the multiparty Stipe Shuvara when he told me about this speaker to tell me one of you who got fired. ... They got a job and more than they got a job, what they get today, and what they got during Sanader's quits, which replaced the editor-in-chief of the Vesniks with a sentence, you change it to a college and publicly humiliate it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He was Prime Minister, and it's known, and a hundred times, none of it's been fenced. Thus, the history of cancellation, the history of pressure on journalists and during communism continued in the 1990s, unfortunately continues today. Physically one of the prominent journalists, Zeljko Peratovic, was attacked. Very little was said of it, there was no great condemnation. My colleague Krmpotić was threatened only because someone would testify and what was assumed to testify about the crimes of the UDBA. I'm not saying, I'm not taking either the left or the right side, I need to condemn the pressures on the press, the resignations of the press and this robbery that happened in Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106739	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the club, the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106740	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We join as a club of HNS Liberal Democrats to all those who have raised their voice because of this latest case of violence and banditism in the newsroom of the Croatian weekly in Zadar, who are protesting and asking the country's competent institutions to detect the perpetrators as soon as possible and to sanction such behaviour. On the side of what the weekly is about, whether or not we like what he writes, aside from what political views he promotes, which political option he advocates. This is a matter of principle where freedom of word is attacked, and freedom of public speech and freedom of press are fundamental freedoms on which every democratic society rests. We cannot deafen ourselves and cannot remain calm after such events or events as the one that happened before when the famous Croatian journalist Mr. Peratovic was physically attacked. Journalist profession in the Republic of Croatia I dare say that when we look at the number of professionals over the past 10 or 15 years, she has practically submitted and suffered almost the greatest losses I would say alongside the textile workers, most of them lost their jobs, most of them had to be overqualified violently and started earning their bread in another branch. Few professions have endured such a blow. Croatia's democracy and Croatia as a democratic state are not perfect, nor are the media perfect far from it. At least this meeting of the Croatian Parliament has talked about it at least 10 times in plenary sessions, thematic sessions and regular meetings of the Information Committee. But just because they're not perfect, because we're not perfect, we need to be aware of how much more work there is ahead of us and protect each other, guard the institutions. Because those who destroy the space of public, freedom of public words and those who mud the institutions, who narrow down the space of their affirmation and reinforcements actually call for non-democratic models, authoritarian models, totalitarianism. That is why we as the Croatian Parliament must always stand out loud. And allow only in the end to refer to the topic opened by Mr. Cain. The question of Greece is Europe. It is not an ephemeral, dilettane issue or a question that only a small group of people will decide on. This is an important issue for the EU as the most important political project in the world in the last hundred years. On 1 July 2013, we became a full member of the community, which makes up 28 countries with us. We can't, and we can't act the way we could afford it before that. We are a full member, Croatia must lead a proactive policy and whatever decision it must make in institutions, it must play an active role within the EU institutions. We will. We won't. It's not politics. Politics is to look at all the conconsequences especially because we've been through different stages in the construction of our country that weren't bright and where they should have been both solid and smart and where we've been looking for allies, not those who will turn their backs on us. I do not advocate or advocate that Croatia participates in any amount of unreal costs, but the fact is that we must be part of this team, not pretend it is none of our business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106741	Thank you too, dear colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, that as president of the Parliament, and I am currently not going to evaluate or decommit with the topics and positions of the representatives' clubs, I would say at the institute that has become a practice in the Croatian Parliament. But for the sake of the public, I must state that, because of the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we cannot conduct parliamentary debates or even express replications, because of the views and assessments of the representatives' clubs. It is important to point out that then this really stays only as a press conference of representatives clubs on their selected topic. And now we'd move on to making an oath of a new representative, a new colleague of ours. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when called, rise up and say the word 'I swear'. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dear Representative Željko Plazonić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106743	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-15-0.u106744	Thank you very much, and I congratulate the esteemed representative on the oath. I want him to share with us the success in the future of performing an honorable and responsible representative's duties. . Thank you very much again. [[Applause.]]
