ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106042	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes due to the position of persons with disabilities who are being warned by associations and citizens' initiatives by an open letter to the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106043	Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106044	Your Honor, Mr. President, same as your colleague Novak. Same break, same theme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106045	Honorable representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106046	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes regarding the position of Croatian citizens who are credit users of the Reifeisen cooperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106047	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106048	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ Club is looking for a break for information on the excellent successes of the new economic branch in the Republic of Croatia, which is the film industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106049	Of what? ... Okay, film industry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the esteemed representative of Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106050	At the same time, the topic of education of members of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106051	National minorities. They're free topic, they're all free topic. Press conferences, free issues. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan. ... An eye? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106052	About people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106053	About?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106054	Yeah, about the position of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106055	And Furio Radin. First is Comrade Caine, 7, Damir Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106056	A Croatian Army pass that turns into a vanity parade.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106057	You're worried about the pass? ... 8, Furio Radin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106058	The IDS Club and the independent representative Furia Radina, same as Mr. Juhas, on the education of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106059	I didn't hear you, you didn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106060	Just like Mr. Juhas and the National Minority Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106061	Okay. And 9, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106062	Just like Cain, not to be alone, so by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106063	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this practice if we continue this way in this election year we will have to set up a day of free topic of club representatives one day. ... Friday at 3:00, I agree, a good suggestion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Mladen Novak on behalf of the club on behalf of the disabled. Here you go. Left-handed club, to point that out. On behalf of the Left-handed Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106065	Thank you very much. That's not why I said that, but it doesn't matter. We've witnessed last week's events related to the Children's Compensation Act, but purely because of the public. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure virtually prevents me from reopening that subject, or talking about it today, so I won't mention it too much. But I must simply warn the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Government of the Republic of Croatia about a dozen pages, twelve pages, sent to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, parents from these associations of children with difficulties, meaning from 2012. Then we had a letter from February 2013 when it was indicated that it was given to the ministry familiar with all the problems and that it would be approached to solve this problem. However, as you know, the problems have not been solved until today, so after that and after what I don't know how a man would even call it Friday that they were here in the Parliament to take civil initiatives and associations of parents, let's say "Let's help the children with disabilities" have addressed both the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister with a request to resolve their problem. But that's why I asked for this break. Yesterday we had a chance not to know probably some of you had the opportunity to watch on public television a contribution that also applies to this population and then we heard from the head of the Ministry of Social Policy and Young People in style to praise themselves and their ministry, that those in the newspaper found out about the case of a certain lady who was there as a guest in that contribution and that they had spotlessly solved it. In my opinion, that the problems of these people would be solved in quality, each social worker has, is in charge of certain individuals and he warns them, should warn them of their rights stemming from the law. However, our practice is quite the other way around. That's what I'm telling you because the Ministry isn't simply set up properly, it doesn't work right, and what happened last week was a drop in the sea. But a complete solution to the problem, no one accesss it. Another proof of this in January 2014 we had here the Law on the electricity market and the gas market, in January 2014. Under the law, no amendments to the law were passed when the government's obligation to pass a regulation, an energy poverty regulation, was required. So a year and a half ago. It's an obligation of the same ministry. And now that someone tells me they're getting rid of it, working bodies have formed, commissions have formed, we're approaching this problem. Let's face it, nothing gets solved. This is, this ministry's work is an example of how it shouldn't work, but unfortunately this ministry isn't the only one, and unfortunately it fits into all the other ministries of this government. I hope there's enough reason, because what happened last week just doesn't make it clear to anyone what stage we're in right now. The law, according to everyone's interpretation, has not been rejected at all, nor is it possible to reject it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I hope that since there's been some kind of vacuum that the ruling will accept that proposal and that there's still a possibility that it goes into second reading, so that with five and a half million kunas because now it's half a year, with five and a half million kuna, we try to at least to correct this injustice a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106066	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106067	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few minutes on the same subject, which I would freely call a clear indicator of how low we fell as a society and as a people, how low a society that allowed itself 13 years of discrimination on people living with such a burden and going through life, how low we fell as a society where the roof institution of the Croatian Assembly is seated with a salary of an average of 16000 kuna and all other benefits belonging to them can be allowed to talk about such a theme in a half-empty, and it would be good to have a half-empty hall, in which it is possible that people who have an average salary of 16000 kuna to this discrimination can be restrained. It's a phenomenon that every serious man can imagine deeply. Thirteen years without innocent ideology, no innocent political options, no innocent parties, 13 years of Croatian shame. We met, say some, form in a way that the law stopped. I don't know a better expression, it doesn't go forward, the government's proposal has been rejected. This discrimination and this tragedy and that sadness not only of these people but also of their families is currently in the fridge. Imagine how politically innovative we are, we put that question in the fridge. In my line of work when something happens, then the captain is responsible for the law, and we're raised like sailors to make the captain feel responsible. I'll be free to ask who the captain of this ship is? Not personally, but in principle. To some captains, who unfortunately are gone and I remember as gentlemen, this wouldn't have happened. Not wanting to go into party politicizing because I am not one of those MPs who proposed this law, I support it as a man and as a representative, proposed by counterpart Novak, in a sincere desire to overcome ourselves, our own vanity, petty political interests and to rise from the swamp that we have fallen not to our knees but through dogs and sink into the living sand of immorality, unethical and unprofessionalism I propose to the minister who has not thought about it for three years to send in an emergency procedure on behalf of the Government the exact same document because it is possible to write it in the ministry services in two days or let him resign. When she has not found it appropriate for three years to put such shameful discrimination on the side of people with disabilities, there is only one choice of morals as I personally see these things and how we at the club of the People's Party of Reformists, DC and Nova Vala see or let her take advantage of the position of the minister responsible for these people, three years already, let her guide, win her own vanity, prescribe a legal proposal from Mr Novak and abolish that Croatian disgrace or let her go home. And let the captains think a little bit about what their duty is, to protect the petty party political schemes how to save their own vanity, how to fulfill the form, and slap the essence, or let them realize that it is time for them to store the matrix at home in the cabinet and go home too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106068	Thank you too, dear colleague. I understand your sensitivity but you overstepped the correctness of the political and you have no right to call the representatives to account for the vote. That's more important than any of your political attitudes. Freedom of MPs and clubs to vote whether or not you agree with him cannot be the right of your assessment and your court. Politics yes, but no vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106069	I ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to give me a warning next time. I made my own point, I didn't call anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106070	Thank you very much. I understand everything, but you can't call anyone to vote, it's a fundamental right for MPs to freely decide how to vote. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106072	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going back to the topic that Honorable colleague Novak has opened, and that's the issue of solving the problems that people with disabilities have. The fact is that this problem has been unresolved for too long, and it can only be solved by open conversation and understanding of all sides. And I also welcome the initiative we had last week in Parliament, which is that it is open in this house to discuss this problem. Accordingly, I here, on behalf of the SDP club, say that next week, the Prime Minister will seek a solution and correct the injustice that has lasted too long with representatives of children's associations with developmental difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u106073	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, we will now return to the debate on the established agenda points. I suggest, and so is the principle agreement of the club representatives to two points of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, first reading, P.Z. No. 820, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. No. 807. - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – We do the parties of work to say so, let us discuss it unitedly. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion on the proposal for the law of Croatian Labourists. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law, which shall be Articles 183 to 188. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and the laws, the draft laws were discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the draft law of the Government of Croatia, and the proposal of the Croatian Labour Committee, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Reports for both laws, reports from the working bodies were received at the session. Does the Government's representative want to give an opening statement first? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109172	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In June 2011, when an amendment to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion was amended, the Minister in the introduction of the Croatian Parliament said in his opening statement, although we changed the law two, three months ago, we have to change it once again because it is a condition for us to sign, or close negotiations and sign an accession agreement. And that was only proof of how much the law that was still in force was passed between and under certain pressure. We have supported that law and amendments to the law as a position, but there are some solutions left in it that have been in a certain conflict and with sound logic, but we are going to try to fix this law now. Therefore, the Law on the financing of political activity and electoral promotion since the entry into force of the basic text of 2011 has experienced two amendments, from 2011 to 2013 which have improved the system of financing political activities and election promotions. However, further law enforcement, especially at local level and during past local elections, has identified certain problems and shortcomings that require further improvements and more overall regulation of legislation. Given the scope of the necessary changes in the area of financing of political activities and election promotions that have changed the nature of previous relations, and new areas are also regulated, it is proposed to adopt a whole new law that regulates the issue of financing political activity, election promotions and referendums in a unique and systematic manner. The more significant newspaper that contains this bill compared to the current law concerns the following issues. First, the financing of the referendum activity and the referendum promotions which are now not regulated by any regulation, and since decisions are made in the referendum, can be amended and the Constitution can be assessed as necessary by the necessary legislative arrangements to finance the referendum campaigns and ensure transparency and supervision of their funding. In addition, an information system is introduced to monitor the financing through which data-receiving entities will submit data to the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office, financial reports, reports and other data. This will simplify the assembly and submission of financial reports and other reports and will also ensure their publication through the information system in a unique place for all entities on the State Election Commission website. This ensures more effective supervision, the establishment of an easy search of the database, the collection and submission of financial reports and other reports and data, and facilitates the monitoring of political funding by the public. Furthermore, the provision of resources in the state budget for regular annual financing is determined according to the tax revenues achieved, not according to the operating expenditures as per the solution so far. The expenditure side has a whole range of expenditure items, pensions, subsidies, aid, donations, non-financial assets, financial expenditures based on credit and interest payments, etc. whose increase cannot be the reason for the increase in funds to political parties. It is proposed to establish that the funds for regular annual funding in the state budget are provided in the amount of 0,08% of the tax revenue achieved in the previous annual budget report and it is determined that the resources in the state budget can be provided up to a maximum amount of 50 million kuna compared to the solution so far which did not provide for the ceiling. In this place, I will also refer to the draft laws proposed by the Labourists, which, in turn, coincides with the Government's proposal that incomes be the basis for political parties, and these other details can therefore be discussed in the second reading, and we can further prepare these fines to be harmonised. In order to ensure minimum common standards in funding from the local budget, the minimum amount of funds that the unit of local and regional self-government is obliged to provide in the budget for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government selected from the list of voters and to establish that the amount of funds cannot be less than 1000 kuna per year per member of the representative body of the unit of local self-government. This means that there would be 7,000 kuna for the least of the municipalities. I believe that if he can't provide 7,000 kuna, he shouldn't even exist as a community. Therefore, this will not be a major blow to local self-government units, but will allow the normal functioning of political parties that participate on the basis of citizens' will in the representative body and limit the will of individual local self-government leaders who have not financed political parties at all for various reasons. The allocation of funds to political parties from the budget for regular annual financing shall also be determined according to the number of representatives or members of the representative body at the time of the declaration of the final official results of the elections, and not at the time of the establishment of the representative body as a solution so far. It's that difference of 20, 30 days, or where from the second, third try, it ends two, three months so that even those possible crossings are not sanctioned. So to take the day of declaration of election results. In this way, it will be ensured that the allocation of taxpayers' funds or resources from the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional self-government fully comply with the election results, which only reflects the right to vote. Furthermore, the financial operations of members of the representative bodies of the unit of self-government selected from the list of group voters are simplified. The obligation to keep accounts, draw-up and submit financial reports shall be determined only in the case of revenue in total of more than 5000 kuna and the obligation to submit a half-yearly grant report shall be determined only if the total value of donations received is greater than 5000 kuna, thereby significantly reducing the number of control entities and thus ensuring more effective supervision. In fact, we have one suppression of the State Audit Office which several hundred local council members must control, many of which have minimal or even no revenue from the state budget, and in addition because they have not submitted a report that they have nothing yet and have received enormously high sentences in the Criminal Court that have therefore repeatedly exceeded the amounts they would receive in all 4 years of their mandate for political activity. So in that sense, this is one of those solutions that I said should be aligned with a healthy logic at the very beginning. It is also established that a member of a representative body selected from a list of voters who has not opened a special account for regular annual financing within the prescribed time limit of the units of local and regional self-government is not obliged to pay off the funds for a period during which the special account has not been opened in order to encourage the timely execution of the obligation. The possibility is provided for that independent representatives and members of self-government bodies selected from the list of a group of voters may waive the right to finance from the budget and shall be governed by the treatment in the event of refusal of that right. It is established that if an independent representative becomes a member of the political party participating in the Croatian Parliament, after declaring the final official results of the elections, of the funds for regular annual financing from the budget, belongs to a political party whose member he became and no longer remains to that representative as it was according to the solution so far. The same applies to members of the representative bodies of the self-government units. In this way, all rights and obligations are passed on to a political party through the foundations of financial operations and are reduced to the obligations of those representatives and members of the representative bodies selected from the list of the group of voters, and the number of control entities is also reduced, which also contributes to more effective control of the retention of the same standards of transparency. So this is about situations that are going to happen in the future, and two things are possible. One thing, if a representative or a representative from the voters' list in the local self-government unit during the term of office moves into some already existing party, he will know in advance that if this happens, the funds belong to a political party whose member he is and he will have it in mind when making his decision he will do so. So it's his choice again. If he doesn't want to be so attached to the party, then he'll be either impartial in the party club or in some other way, or he'll be publicly supportive, and if he wants to be a full part of the party, then that kind of funding will also interfere with the party. And secondly, it is possible that an independent list that passed the elections is formed as a political party during the term of office, to cross over a number of council members and, in that case, continue to function as a political party. This is how the law recognises the list where 8 or 9 independent councilors were elected, it recognises as 9 individuals and not as a group that has been chosen together, and that is when they will know in advance it will be one of the criteria by which elected council members or advocates will determine whether they will remain independent and have any other relationship with a political party whose programme they support or wish to imitate. It also lays down the right to compensation for the sub-represented sex other than the political parties have independent representatives and members of the representative body of the unit of the regional self-government elected from the voters' list. The natural and legal persons making donations are obliged to provide the donor with a declaration that they are not subject to the payment procedure of outstanding liabilities to the budget and employees, also for donations issued in the form of products or services of natural persons who are not bonds of issuing an account, are obliged to issue a certificate rather than an account as per adjudicated settlement, as considered an election promotion within the meaning of this law, defining their own means of independent lists or lists of a group of voters. With regard to the political parties that have jointly proposed the list, it is specified that the return of funds between political parties which have proposed a common list in the amount that was due under the mutual agreement may be paid by a particular political party to the central account of the political party that has paid the common costs and that that payment is considered a donation. The issue of availability with all the neutral resources remaining in the special account for the financing of the electoral promotion until the date of its closure is settled and not only the availability of neutral donation funds as was the case with the solution so far. More detailed arrangements shall be made for the financing of electoral promotion by candidates by political parties proposed by candidates, which shall be determined that the amount of funds paid to the candidate's special account by the political party proposed by the candidate, as well as the donations in the form of products or services provided by the political party proposed by the applicant does not apply to the provisions of this law on the limitation of the amount of the donation, the limitation of the time limit and the prohibition of funding by political parties as non-profit organisations. The total cost of electoral promotion per candidate list is increased in the elections for members of the European Parliament in the Republic of Croatia from the current 1 million and 500 000 to 4 million kuna, assessing that the amount allowed so far in view of the importance of these elections is not in proportion to the total amount of the cost of election promotion in other elections. It is said that the state electoral commission monitors and finance the state budget and the budget of the local self-government unit. The law provides for a series of obligations to units of local and regional self-government, so that they provide funds for regular annual financing in the budget, and to allocate them in a prescribed manner, to pay the cost of electoral promotion in accordance with the law, to publish reports on the amount of allocated and paid funds from the budget for regular annual financing, and the State Election Commission is obliged as a supervisory authority to monitor compliance with all the provisions of this law and by units of local and regional self-government. In order to strengthen transparency and raise public awareness of the importance of the proper financing of political parties, the State Election Commission is determined to submit to the Croatian Assembly and publicly publish a report on the supervision of the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the self-government units selected from the voters' list and not just reports on the monitoring of the financing of election promotion as per the solution so far. The possibility of double punishment for the same act has been lifted administratively and criminally, fines for violations, administrative and criminal sanctions have been reduced in proportion to injuries, and all administrative sanctions are imposed by the State Election Commission. The reason for this is not a message that this is a desirable behavior but knowledge and awareness of what is in one case a feature and has also brought the Constitutional Court that sanctions are disproportionate to the offence committed and that they should therefore be normalised or adapted to what is really the nature of this offence. The sanctions for not publishing financial and other reports have also been lifted since their obligation, that their publication obligations are no longer burdened by supervisory entities but also by the publication of the same obligation to ensure the State Election Commission on its website, is more detailed on other issues which have been assessed not to be sufficiently regulated in law enforcement. Also, during the debate in the Parliament and between the public debates on this law, public attention was given to a provision prohibiting associations from financing referendum activities, a referendum campaign. In the text of the law on reading, that provision entered the proposal of the State Electoral Commission itself. We have assessed this proposal that the reasons for which we were then considering prevailing over the reasons against but this may be reconsidered between two readings and the basis of today's debate and discussions on committees. So the point is to prevent the indirect financing of activities and campaigns above the permitted sources in accordance with this bill, it is in a way that someone who is basically forbidden to finance a referendum campaign does so by donating to the association that will then finance the referendum campaign and, if a solution is found to meet this main objective, which is that, indeed, the indirect financing of the forbidden elections will be disabled, then, for the final proposal of the law, this provision will be adapted to that objective, leaving the possibility of associations to be able to finance the referendum under certain conditions and those can finance the referendum. However, it is a matter of further discussion and another conversation perhaps with representatives of civil society. And here's the honored lady and gentlemen of the MPs, I suggest you accept this bill in your first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109173	Thank you very much. We now have replicas of your exposure, Your Honors Minister. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109174	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. You said we should strengthen the control of the forbidden financing of the campaign from the banned sources. It means banning campaign funding for pre-election elections. The former president of the state, Mr Stipe Mesic, took part in an election campaign of money we give to retired presidents of the state and thus directly violated this maximum that you are now propagating. I suggest that Mr. Ex-President be abolished because he spends them in an illegal manner. Because what he said was that I included the campaign that should be a pass, so the story of stupidity is what I'm saying here because I don't have a nicer one. [[/Intruder: Josip Leko: Do you have a more beautiful expression?]] In fact, he may have been in Lika, saying that the shaman's infancy was being replaced by the entire general staff during peace, and now he's saying that the president shouldn't have to have a pass, something's not normal. [[Intruder: Joseph Leko: I ask you to withdraw that expression.]] He joined the presidential campaign on a issue he shouldn't be performing with. If he wants a parade and these makeupists from Zagreb, then the parade can only be in two places in Knin eventually, but in Vukovar certainly from Trpinja cesta to Bogojevski bridge where the tanks came from. And these 15 tanks that are made up in Djura Djakovic let them go to Trpinjska cesta to walk to the bridge where they came from Belgrade, so we can show how they are today's relations. Otherwise, this parade does not make any sense except to satisfy the vanity of some people who were wearing makeup in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109175	Dear colleague Dujomir Marasovic, I don't think it makes sense to give warnings, but this deserves a warning not for me but for the public. You have no right to insult any citizen and be involved in politics or not involved in politics. Maintain the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and your own. Does the minister want an answer? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109176	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the standard you set by giving notice to the MP, then I will have to significantly correct my statement to answer him. So, as for the former president who has an office, he doesn't have how much I know about the ambitions of running and campaigning, and this former president who has the ambitions of running in the campaign doesn't have an office so in that sense she doesn't have that campaign financing that you were talking about. As for the idea of amending the law on the rights of the former president, I would remind you that the law was passed during your government. And that's the only mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109177	There are a lot of mistakes in the Parliament, but please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109178	If we went to correct the mistakes in order and by priority it would happen sometime when the 43rd president used his office around. But good. And as for your passing attitude, for which I do not see again what it has to do with the subject of the law unless a referendum is planned on this subject, and then a very mild connection to this subject could be made. So the Constitution is clear and the Defence Act is also clear as there are some ambiguities between the two rules adopted by the Croatian Parliament there is a place where these recommendations can be resolved and resolved, which is the Constitutional Court. Therefore, submit a constitutional request for the assessment of the constitutionality of one of the articles of the Defence Act if you have any problems and I believe that this will be resolved and it would be a good idea for the military to spare the arbitration between political entities because a standard which Croatia has been holding for almost 15 years and should continue to do so. So the army of soldiers, politics to politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109179	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109180	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Ministers, in the interpretation of newspapers that are incorporated into this law and basic provisions, you have noted that this law has resolved the minimum financial resources for the functioning of council members in the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government, so you have stated the minimum amount of thousands of kuna a year, if I am not mistaken. As someone who has worked for four years in the executive section, and for four years in the representative section of the local self-government unit, I have some experiences, so I will comment on it in the following way. No municipality is so small that it would have so much less work and so much less function that a thousand kunas per year would be enough for the serious work of a serious councilman and representatives in a representative body. This issue raises a much deeper issue, and this is called unit reform of local self-government, and this issue raises the question of what limits we have brought to absurdity. How many units of local self-government do we have that can't single out those 7 thousand kunas you've legally prescribed and how absurd is the existence of such units of local self-government? Do you really want to claim that there are council members in representative bodies who, say, work 40 or 50 times less jobs than the city councilman of Split or a representative in the Zagreb City Assembly? I personally doubt it. For this reason, I am using this opportunity and this replica to point out to you the need to make as the Croatian Parliament what the Kukuriku coalition is, and at that time I, as a representative of the Kukuriku coalition, promised Croatian voters and citizens, which is to bring order to the system of units of local self-government and finally create criteria that will determine what can be a unit of local self-government and not that we have political people with disabilities throughout our beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109181	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109182	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Representative. So another topic that's getting very tangentically associated with this law. So the intention was to limit these provisions that you said, to limit the space of ruling structures in these and such municipalities and others to make it more difficult for any party to act politically, any individuals, so that it simply tells them no matter what we have money, I won't give you anything. So that right is denied and that these 1,000 kunas are one border that can be 500 and it can be 5000, 2000, it doesn't matter. So that's one thing. I will repeat and believe that there will be opportunities during the debate and more times say that I think it is better that the parties are financed from public sources than that they depend on various donors. In this regard, too, other legal solutions should be observed. And I will also say that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lists political parties, not individuals dealing with politics. And that's why in one article you have an alternative that will probably be assessed as a blow to the constitutional order, which is that not all MPs are in the same position, or council members in the same position because some get out of the budget and some don't. And I don't think they're in the same position right now because some of the money is being decided by the party, and some are being decided by individuals, but no one's making that point. And as for the topic you've touched that's a reform of local self-government, it's a topic that's been going on for 20 years, 22 years since the new system's been passed, and it's likely that the next 20 years will also go on. And once, if the system ever changes, it will be reconsidered whether it is good or not as it is done in all countries. And next week, we will send a strategy for the development of the public administration to be discussed by the Parliament, and then it will be a place for a more detailed debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109183	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan ilikovic, a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you spoke of providing funds for the implementation of this law or financing, however at various levels. And I kind of got stuck in the ear with this when you said the local self-government units had to secure 7 thousand kunas. But you said one very interesting remark in that part, if the local self-government unit can't secure that 7 grand doesn't even have to exist. I believe it will ensure everything, that I can and God forbid this is the biggest problem of seven thousand kunas. But speaking of financing these units of local self-government, it's good to say here in this place that every little commitment is given but by means of nothing. So let's just say for example, changes to the Income Tax Act to how many units of local self-government are denied. And simply for those of their basic activities in their jurisdiction from fire, the preservation of values, etc., that I do not list much in that regard. But it's also kind of unacceptable to keep hitting on that local self-government and we're pushing for the preservation of those spaces. If we remember how many hits we've had based on agriculture. So if we hear in the media now, there's a health reform going on, so now it's going to go back that way. It's just a fear. Fearing these people in these rural areas. And I, as Minister of Management here, simply want to draw attention to simply trying to affirm that local self-government, help her because that is what we have committed ourselves to, joining this European family and not constantly in some way scaring these rural areas of local self-government in this way or that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109185	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109186	So here I hope next week the government and then Parliament relatively quickly, will be the topic of public administration reform and then local self-government. So it'll be an opportunity to analyze what you said. As regards the amendment of the Income Tax Act, as you can see, it is, as far as I am aware of what was to be achieved because it is not directly my portfolio he has therefore achieved its effect to some extent and because consumption has nevertheless increased somewhat in the first quarter of 2015 since it was applied and some compensatory measures have also had its effect. So I believe that in this direction it will continue and for everything else we are waiting for this debate on the strategy and then we will have opportunities all day again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109187	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109188	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, I'd just like to comment on article 20. For the simple reason that article 20 was a challenge to various political bickerings. In Croatia, we have received a number of new tax experts. Well, if we're changing the law, then the logical thing is when something turns out to be bad enough that we can make it right by law. So if it is said here in paragraph 1 that the right to compensation for the cost of electoral promotion from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has and, among other things, candidates for the President of the Republic of Croatia are mentioned. And if the law lays down that these are the costs of election promotion costs, then I do not understand how this can be subject to the Income Tax Act. Because the Income Tax Act defines exactly what is taxed. Do we here acknowledge that we have used one unspeakable provision for the political bickering and humiliation of the newly elected president and the hitting on another opponent who has left the parent political flock. If that is the case, then we should recognise it, if I do not think that Article 28 and other articles should actually define what is not defined, which is for individuals who are obliged to open an account to finance a political campaign, and then have the right to compensation. I think in finance, a report can only be closed at the moment when all the rights and obligations in that job are completed, and I think we've defined here how long it takes to close the accounts from which the campaign is financed. Then reports must be filed. After the reports have been submitted, there is still some compensation, and then we come to the point of chasing the notion of citizens with someone who has been a candidate for something and then we use it for political purposes. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not need to know all the laws, but I think that this provision of Article 20 should be clarified only because of the ambiguity in the future, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109189	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109190	I must say that I fully agree with you in clarifying the provisions and that article, perhaps some other articles of the law. It seems to me that the bill went out of the government before this case, so it wasn't clear enough at the time. But what I want to say is that many things in Croatia, regardless of what the political option is in power, have been applied for many years. Then when we get into a fight, all of a sudden, he starts philosophizing me to say so. This is the case with the letter of national minorities, with the number of voters for the referendum, and this is also about the number of votes needed to elect the President of the Republic, is that this or that majority, by the number of powers of the Defence Act, and then we go to the end. That's probably how it happened in this case. So I think we can discuss two things, one thing is whether the cost of election promotion is a real fee for election promotion costs or whether it's a reward for the number of votes. If she's a fee for election promotion costs, then there'll be nothing left because you'll pay those expenses, with that money you've had. If the reward is then you can get more money than you've spent. So there are cases in local elections that someone doesn't spend... Take it easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So far, it has been a practice and an interpretation that, regardless of the campaign costs, the fee goes to the number of votes received or the percentage of the council members, and that is something that is now considered to be going like this, but we can agree and that would bring certain savings in the budget, to limit it only to what you have reported as a cost. Then there won't be anything left and we don't need to discuss whether it's income, donations, etc. at all. As for the procedure we discussed, so I think there's nothing questionable about candidates donating money, paying money back to the political party who ran them, and only then should... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109192	And it's decided by the party and not given any further suggestions, but it's not a violation either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109193	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109194	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I think article 24 that speaks of a ban on funding and guessing should be slightly improved and completed, so here are some suggestions. When foreign states, foreign political parties and foreign legal entities are banned from funding political parties and independent representatives, I think that there should be a difference between a legal person and its owner and a legal person. Because when something in the logical circle is lagging behind then there must be a valid and justifiable reason why it is lagging behind. I don't see an argument here for missing a foreign person. Similarly, when it is said that the natural and legal persons against whom the payment procedure for outstanding liabilities to the budget and workers, or employees, is conducted, it is more important that someone has outstanding obligations than to conduct the procedure because they cannot be conducted, they are financed, they have the option, and tomorrow a procedure is already launched or no proceedings can be initiated at all. And I think we should consider here that whoever has outstanding obligations, regardless of the state budget, employees or suppliers, cannot finance political parties. Because what's the difference, we have to protect entrepreneurship, someone's going to finance political parties, and we're going to destroy suppliers, creditors and entrepreneurship. Here I think there must be whoever has outstanding obligations on any basis cannot finance political parties and also suppliers. Also, companies that are in a pre-departure procedure that neither owners nor companies can nor finance political parties, and after the pre-departure procedure is completed within 5 years. Because the easiest way to make a deal is to forgive your debts in billions of kuna and you several hundred million or several hundred thousand finance a political party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109195	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109196	Thank you for the suggestions. At first glance, it seems logical to me, and if there's no other reason not to accept them that we're going to explain, I think we're going to go on that trail, so we're going to trace the reduction of the possibilities of those who shouldn't be able to finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109197	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists, the opening statement, Zlatko Tušak, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109198	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I can show my satisfaction that the debate is united because, based on our proposal, the amendments and amendments to the law concern Article 4(1) and the new draft law of Article 4(1). What we must specifically point out about our proposal, the Law on the financing of the political activities of the electoral promotion is the financing of political parties, as well as the financing of election promotion activities. The current law has been in force since 2011, before this area was governed by the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates. By applying these two laws, funds in the state budget to finance the regular political activities of the parties from 2007 to this year amounted to €49.2 million in 2008, in 53.7, 2009. 60,5, 2010 60.4, 2011. 58.9 million kuna, and in 2012 to 2013 and fourteen years 50.2 million kuna. This year that amount is 55 million kuna. According to Article 3(3) of the applicable law, the funds for the regular financing of political parties and independent representatives shall be accounted for as a percentage of 0,05% of the operating income achieved in the previous annual report on the implementation of the State budget. According to this current solution, a report on the implementation of the state budget two years ago or the 2013 budget with its entire deficit is taken into account for this year, which means that the budget was two years ago. Business expenditure was 123 and a half billion in 2013. By applying these legal rules of 0,05% of the said expenditure, we received a calculation that this should be 61,7 million kuna for the financing of parties in 2015. These funds, however, have been reduced to 55 million kuna in this year, which no one has ever given us an argument. But this also shows us that the provisions of the current law need to be adapted to the current economic moment, so we propose not 0.5%, not 0.8%, as proposed in the current law already 0.07%, which is also important for the last execution of the revenue side of the budget, and not in any way expendable. And according to our proposal, that's the plan for the current year. We suggest that such a calculation could be up to a maximum amount of 50 million kuna, which is the current proposal. We therefore believe that the right solution to finance the party is to put dependence on the revenues of the state budget rather than on expenditure. The expenditure in the state budget should not be the basis for the allocation of funds, as the expenditure party finds a number of items such as pensions, subsidies, aid, donations, non-financial assets, financial expenditures based on the repayment of loans, interest and the like. That is why we believe that the basis for the allocation of political parties' funds can only be the income of the state budget, but not all revenues but only tax revenues, which would not include contributions to pension insurance, assistance from the EU for projects co-financed by EU funds and the like. The proposed model of planned tax revenue in the state budget, for example for 2015, would amount to 64 billion kuna. By applying a 0,07% rate, they would receive an amount of approximately 44.8 million kuna to finance political parties. For example, with these coins here, which would be smaller, we could solve this problem that has arisen around the discriminated disabled, because it's working somewhere around 10 million kunas less, and that would solve their problem. By accepting such a proposal, the amount for the financing of political parties would depend exclusively on increasing or reducing income tax revenues, which we think is realistic and should be drawn up in this law. That would certainly be a better and more realistic solution than the existing one. And according to the proposed calculation, the amount of funds intended to finance regular political activities would be less by 16.9 million kuna than the current solution I previously told you about 60 and some million kuna. We therefore believe that this solution of ours will be supported and incorporated into the proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and a referendum in the second reading in Article 4(1). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109199	Thank you, Your Honor. You have one replica. Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109200	As the Government in its text of colleagues and in its opinion on your legislative proposal, it referred to the words that, in essence, the Government, with this proposal just presented by Minister Arsen Bauk, is also talking about a different way of regulating, financing political activities, election promotions by adding, or the government is adding a referendum which also proposes to amend the way in which the funds are provided in the state budget for regular annual financing, and not all revenues, but only not all revenues but only tax revenues, and not operating expenditures as per the solution so far. So I don't see much of a problem here. However, what the government really proposes, and what I think is most important, I think, in that sense, that you will also support this government's proposal to finance the referendum. It's been an empty field so far, so everyone's using that good government control institute by direct citizens, but it can be misused, so we've discovered a lot of things so far that will be prevented from seeing who's funding the referendum initiatives. So that the institute that was intended for citizens precisely by various abuses and funding of certain stakeholders would not turn into its opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109201	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109202	Thank you. Well, about the financing of the referendum it'll be a representative of the club when they speak on behalf of the club so I won't now, I'll look only at that first part of yours where you said the government's obvious. Yes, the government's testimony is very similar to our proposal which was and this proposal is also embedded in the existing law, but yet there is one particular difference and we think that until another reading should accept it. Because in the government's proposal, and in this law, it's budget implementation for last year. We're proposing planned funding for the current year, which we think is more realistic. The second thing, in the government's proposal, is 0.08% of our proposal is 0.07%. We believe that because of this situation, which is quite difficult for political parties to make their contributions to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109203	Thank you too, dear colleague. Are the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament? Yeah. Dear Representative Furio Radin on behalf of the Committee on National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109204	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this law as an interested working body. It's government law. In the debate, the committee members pointed out the need for more precise regulation, the notion of an independent representative who was arranged in Article 1(2) in such a way as to cover only independent representatives selected from an independent list. But in practice, there are certain doubts in terms of representatives of national minorities who are not elected from independent lists but by the majority system. In order to make the provision as clear as possible, it is proposed that the notion of an independent representative should be regulated in such a way as to add representatives of national minorities. In particular, Article 1(1) provides that this law regulates, inter alia, the way in which the political parties of independent representatives of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-governments selected from the list of voters of independent lists, i.e. the lists of a group of voters and candidates, and Article 5(1) that the right to regular annual financing and the resources of the state budget have political parties that have won the seat of the Croatian Parliament and independent representatives who are elected from independent lists. In both cases, there is no mention of representatives of national minorities who are not selected from independent lists but have been selected from a list of voters, associations of national minorities or party lists. It is also requested that the final draft law specify the financing of representatives of national minorities nominated by the political party in the way that Article 42 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions since 2013. The above provision stated that representatives of national minorities nominated by the political party who opened a special account for the regular financing of their activities may continue to finance their regular activity through that account until the end of the term of office in the current assembly of the Croatian Parliament or within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the said law. And close a special account for the regular annual financing of that asset from that account to the central account of the political party that has nominated them. Finally! The question has also been asked in which way the funds will be allocated if the national minority representative is elected from the party coalition list, since Article 6(4) of the bill regulates that if an independent representative in the Croatian Parliament becomes a member of a political party who becomes a member of a political party who participates in the Croatian Parliament, the funds for regular annual funding from the state budget belong to a political party whose party has become a member and has become known at the expense of the political party. The opinion was also given that even if the applicant's intensities to regulate referendum activities and referendum promotions which were in force did not include the transparency of all activities related to referendum decision-making should be taken into account that, apart from the existing proposal of the Law on Referendum which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, this law would significantly destimulate the referendum initiatives. As pointed out, the current law governing the referendum issue has already foreseen a number of difficult obstacles that should be overcome in order to make a statement to the people in the referendum at all, and now this will be almost impossible given the provisions of this bill on financing and achieving all the logistical preconditions for organising the referendum. It has been pointed out that such an arrangement is directly contrary to the systematic provisions that the government comes from the people and belongs to the people, and that the people exercise power by selecting their representatives and by direct decision. The question has also been asked why is it forbidden to finance referendum activities and referendum promotions by religious communities, humanitarian organisations and associations and is also allowed by political parties and associations of workers and employers? Since the applicant has not explained such a solution, it is necessary to state the reasons why almost all associations and all religious communities are prohibited from participating in the financing of referendum activities. It is also not explained why, for example, it is allowed. Voluntary work but if the rooms of some religious communities are given for use without compensation then it is considered a service, and therefore also a financial referendum activity. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums and to send all positions, proposals and remarks to the Government for the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109205	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. Other presidents, representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. It is up to the club of Croatian leftists, independent or otherwise, the respected representative Branko Vuksic and Nikola Vuljanić share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109206	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the ministry living in a divided society, now I will not tell you about that divided society on the partisans and on the Ustashas, but I will speak to the divided society on the one hand they are poor, and on the other side they are rich, on the one hand there is a large majority who has, on the one hand, are those who have all rights that are equaler than those who are unequal. What does that have to do with the law? There's a lot of it, you'll see. We are creating a growing gap, not in Croatian society, this time I'm not just talking about Croatia, I'm talking about a neoliberal society in countries that consider themselves neoliberal and I think this country is. The fundamental human rights we cherished until the '90s were pushed into the seal. Right to sieve, right to live, right to work, right to treat, right to live, right to live in a democratic society we trample from day to day. Capitalism has heard us in recent years, in recent months especially from many people who have something to say about the arrangement of society is a deeply undemocratic society, it is deeply undemocratic. From FIMI media, I now move to law, about FIMI media is no longer the same in Croatia. Be more careful how the parties spend money, more careful of the party's report, more careful of let's say the basic honesty of the people who work in the parties. However, this campaign that has taken a turn could draw on the thin ice those who want to force power, those who do not even challenge the defenders to bring them political points regardless of which side they are, those who want to deny historical facts, those who affirm the obscenities and tax offenders. If they're able to do that, then they're able to do some of the things that were done in the past in pre-election campaigns, which is what, you know that campaigns cost three times as much as they did in the reports. And that's what even the presidents of the state said my opponent's campaign cost three times as much as it said, and who slept that night? It's not the parties. It's the DORH. That's what the former president said that he shouldn't have corned up too soon, he should have protected the crime. Now we come to the injustice that is happening to these and previous laws. Sometimes you don't see injustice until you experience it on your own. What exactly is this about? It is about the fact that there are Assemblys in the Croatian Parliament of First and Second Orders, parliamentary representatives who have rights and parliamentary representatives who have no rights. That's what the Constitution is about. There are parties that have lost 50% of the members and in history without 100% of the members but are financed for the work of parliamentary deputies. You have two types of compensation, the fee which is the return of money or the crossing of the threshold, and you get a certain amount of money and there is a fee to be paid for the agent, for the work of the representatives who are the monthly income of the parties, or with which the work of MPs is financed. And when the party leaves, you have in history a party that has lost its members still has been co-financed from the state budget, or a party that has lost 50% of the MPs in this assembly, it is still receiving money. Representatives who have left the party shall neither receive a kuna nor be able to carry out their duties in the manner that they should and should be deemed to be represented. It is primarily anti-democratic, anti-constitutional, against the law, because the law that is I claim to be anti-constitutional. I'll do anything to make sure that if that law is passed I try to bring it down in the Constitutional Court. For what? Because it introduces inequality among parliamentary representatives. If this is a monthly fee for success in the elections, then we must characterise it that the party receives a monthly fee for 4 years each month in a row for MPs who have won the mandate. Then let's do it, then it's a reward, then it's not a fee for the work of an attorney. If it is an inalienable mandate, then it is inalienable money to which the representative carries out his activities. If I didn't talk about it, you well know the only one who rebelled not because he would benefit from it, but to do more work is that when a representative leaves the party has no rights, the party takes away everything he has from the board, from the delegations. So this MP becomes a second-class representative. How can the club remain the same strength with its clubs, with board membership and delegations and run out of half of its members? So, I'm speaking from experience, I'm talking about an injustice that seems to be advocacy in the Parliament. It is said that the MPs chosen on an independent so-called so-called "independence." The independent lists will be able to get into some parties and then the money will be given to the parties. Why isn't it the other way around? This does not make it illogical for this to strengthen the partocracy, and you must know that as I said at the beginning we are a deeply divided society to those who can do anything and to those who are not allowed anything except in such discussions when we say Croatia is a democratic society, Croatia respects rights, Croatia gives what, Croatia gives this. No, we have introduced one formula, and that formula is, partocracy plus wild capitalism is injustice, not democracy or false democracy. And you can see that from day to day. Therefore, this law all those articles are ideal if this injustice is not corrected, if we do not become equal in the Croatian Parliament, how can we count on equal society in Croatian society. I repeat this law is, deeply unfair, undemocratic and counter-constitutional in the form it is so far and in the form it is now proposed. He will now continue his colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109207	Thank you. Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, the minister has no sight. There are two ways to finance policy at all. One is the kind of application in Croatia, so that the state finances the political activity of the parties as something that it considers useful, good and similar to that of other American donors, where the results of the elections can be very precise from the fact that it has managed to raise more donations. Of course, it also follows what and who rules in those countries. In America there's money, it's a plutocracy we don't have to explain it to anyone. Here, by democratic garters and by how we finance politics, we should rule the people, be sovereign of our money from the budget and over that policy. But it's currently a relatively expensive sport. A sport that costs about 50 million kunas a year for Croatian taxpayers and that is above all one popular word, non-transparent. The law vaguely defined what it actually funded. The law today as it is and what changes are proposed, the financing of a political party point, and should then be called the Law on the financing of political parties. The law does not finance either representatives or representatives of other representative bodies, but political parties or groups that brought them into those bodies. Such a system is not called democracy, such a system is called Partocracy. Partitocracy is the source of all crimes of transformed, corruption, injustice and social divisions in Croatia. And what are these two laws doing? Similarly, they change the techniques in this system of financing partitocracy and are identical and attitudes are identical and wishes are identical. Partitocracy should continue to live on, it needs to be fueled, it needs to be given blood so it can continue to work and change a little law, so let's say it won't be 0.08% but 0.07% it's much fairer and much fairer but there are still political parties that shake everything that happens in Croatia. And whoever's behind them staring at the real thing, that's a different story. Of course, we don't have any evidence here, there's no evidence of that, and there's no state's attorney's office. Who actually rules Croatia, and how much is this paritocrat system essentially different from that floating system in the U.S., even though it's run by the Rohit, do we know who runs Croatia? Here across the street? Hardly. The law should be made clear and loud about what it wants to get and what it aims for. If he wants to get political party funding, then let him write it like that. And if we want to win, and if we're talking about the financing of Parliamentarians and MPs at other levels, then it should be implemented through the text of the law. It's not a situation right now, and that's why I don't see any reason to support one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109208	Now we're going to the replicas to show our colleagues Vuksic. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109209	It's too bad we don't have the wrong idea. Mr. Vuksic said literally, I'm going to quote him "that from FIMI Media nothing is the same as before", and I say Mr. Representative that it's the same, it's worse, at least to us downstairs. You take the DORH and you can just do anything. If you have a PR that tracks the president or any other institution in this country, then these people will defend that PR and they will do whatever they want, usually suck up public money. Mr Vuljanic said that at a time of partytocracy he called some segments and I will add that the DORH listens and acts as a political body. That nothing is the same, that only worse testifies the data to say five, six years ago for the media and the PR down there spent 10 to 12 million kunas and now between 15 and 17 million kunas. In six, seven years, we can put one general hospital under the roof. And what do we come up with? We get institutions that are completely dependent on politics. One voice of Istria, which is the newsletter of one party, defends some to appear in the first place, let alone speak, Tv Nova, as well. There is probably no such thing anywhere in Croatia down in Istria. The space of freedom today, unfortunately, has set up a space of fear. And finally, if you will, I'll quote you exactly by day the data as to how many certain public, municipal companies have drawn money to finance individual mayoral campaigns in Istria and no one. But someone remembers and mentions FIMI to the media. FIMI MEDIA is a sweet mother according to this Istrian practice and everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109210	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109211	Dear colleague Cain, I don't remember in the Croatian Parliament when we discussed the DORH that you told the DORH that it was a political body. I think that, except for my smallness and another lady here in the House, I, too, continue to claim that it is a political body and that it is in cahoots with the parties and that it is actually the body that contributed most to what flourishes corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia. And that's where we fully agree, only that I've been constantly saying it for years and you've come to that conclusion now. If you take that, this law says, so in the law, I took out 60% of the members of the presidential bodies elected in the local elections did not file a report. 60% of the people at local level ignored the law, cheated the state, committed a crime that we say is only criminal. Those who should be a role model for all citizens in honesty, in diligence, in the work of 60%, beware that it is not 6, that is 60% of all the total figures of the councilarians, parliamentarians who were elected in the local elections did not submit a report. What are we talking about, what happened to them? These people, except, need to pass such laws that it never happens again, that it's a crime and that these people are moving out of office. They realized that in the Croatian Parliament we passed laws so that they would be trampled. They say they passed the law, whoever cuts the law, the law doesn't matter, we're the law when we're elected. And that, and who approves? The Croatian Parliament. Because the Croatian Parliament does not object. Every time we say let's sharpen it up, let's get those criminal provisions... Final provisions, no, no need that's not humane. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's humane to cheat on your country? 60%. Is there any in Istria FIMI-MEDIA? So you'll never know because... So long as they're all connected together, all good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109212	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109213	A colleague in the part where you spoke and when you warned yourself that it might not be clear why... I fully agree, especially when you have concluded your opening point with a sentence on the need for political abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd say the same thing from those attempts and what you were also saying is that rational capitalism is a great evil. So of such structures that try to use policy of this or that kind in their own, for their special particular interests. I think that this proposal of the law is precisely by defining not only the financing of policy or political parties as the basis of our Constitution, the holders of political life but also the same, I will repeat that so far the relationship has not been defined as how it is financed and that is the referendum, the referendum initiatives. Who's funding them? If we had known about it, it would have been a little bit easier for us to know what the traps of such proposals were. And that's why I think this bill answers who's funding the referendum initiatives, so we'll see whose interests are behind it. I'm going to tell you Karen Bass, former president of the California State Assembly, she said that using an initiative every billionaire can change the state's constitution, all they have to do is spend money and lie to the people. In such a way, such abuses are the original form of direct democracy, which we can really say that the control of parliamentary democracy is the opposite of itself because it is being exploited. And that's not hard, who has money it's not even hard to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109214	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109215	Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinović, I agree with you who has the money that changes and directs it. You said that's what billionaires do by using lies. That's what parties do. Remember everything the parties promised from the '90s to today. And most hypocritical when they say it here, but you chose it, you chose it in the '90s. We didn't choose it, nobody chose an unfair society where one of them had everything, one of them was Todorovics and the other was poor, it all came down to it. She came true about 200 families. Maybe there's 600 of them that live fantastically like kidneys in the loin. I'm glad to be on this side when I first started talking about capitalism as evil then there was a jam, a laugh that I heard and from you that capitalism is evil, it's for most evil. It's a deeply unfair and anti-democratic society. It is also a Croatian society as well as other societies. And the other thing that's being used here, and it's still being used, and that's the free market. The free market in Croatia is an example for you. Large chains, destroying everything that is small, healthy, tough, puts only a certain number of people on pedestals and makes most of them unhappy in Croatia without being disfigured and not organised in unions. And this law alone, I agree with you with a referendum, needs to see who stands behind, whose money stands, strictly controls, but I hope that someone from most of this injustice is to have representatives of the first and second order. How to react, how that most simply, so the team gets stronger the parties, then the MP becomes less valuable, thus the head of the party has all the power in his hands because he knows he'll have the money behind it. And it may be that the MP left the party because she failed the party's programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109216	Time. Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109217	I fully agree with you, Mr Vuksic, when you say there are first-, second-row representatives and second-row representatives are independent representatives. It looks like when an independent lawyer asks for funds for his political work, it looks like he's stealing someone and it's being claimed by the parties. I heard in this assembly that it emphasizes the fact that there is a provision in the Constitution under which political parties are financed, but you know that the Constitution is one way to say one inventory of different articles, some of which are contrary to others because in the same Constitution in Article 75, it is said that MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not have a binding mandate, which means that when their parties become independent they fully bear themselves with all that they have brought to the parties. It was heard in this assembly also in one explanation that independent MPs would decide for themselves... while in parties all decide. The sentence that there are no individual decisions in the parties is that there are no entities, no forerunners, no sense. Everyone knows that parties are decided by individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109218	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109219	Dear Mr. Radin, yes, MPs are independent representatives of the second order and in fact they cannot perform their duty in the way they should carry out their duty because they have no kuna except for what they earn through wages and invest in their work, means their own money. However, the parties receiving the money do not get parties for won terms but receive compensation for the work of MPs on the ground, with citizens. So what happens now? This money is not spent on the work of MPs, this money is spent on hiring relatives, on hiring friends in parties, on buying cars, on various celebrations, and with citizens who have chosen the representative is not contacted or contacted insufficiently. Good and not often enough. Therefore, if we want to be truly righteous, we must walk away from ourselves. Whoever has the right to deny any representative from any party who has become independent or left the party or impartially, however you wish, prevents him from working, from doing his job. And I repeat, the party that was parliamentary, lost its MPs, was compensated all the time. The parties in this assembly that are out of 50% will be left with no more deputies, get all that money for what? Tell me what it's for. If someone can explain to me what they've invested in, whose money they've invested in. Well, it's not like football club Mamicev, so then Mamic invested it, so he's entitled to take it back. They did not invest anything of their own. We all invested in these parties together. Therefore, this is an injustice that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109220	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109221	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would not agree with your observation that this law contains certain elements that would be contrary to the Constitution because of Article 5 of the Constitution. The constitution says that the law regulates the financing and work of political parties, and here Article 4 suggests that funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent MPs are provided to these budgets. So no means for the work of MPs, so neither the Constitution nor this law, just sort of... legal interpretation. It seems to me that there are no grounds and elements of the anti-constitution in this proposed law. What's more, you said we didn't get the money. Every MP gets that 1500 kuna co-author to work in the field with voters and himself as MPs. Is that enough? From personal experience, it's hard to spend on fuel, and when you get somewhere, you pay for people's juice or coffee, and it goes really fast. But that opens another pair of sleeves that we may not be talking about alone. I had Mr. Josip Juratović, our Croatian representative in Bundestag, who says he has seven people working in his service, his own. Clearly, he can therefore have the power there to use them to prepare laws and tours and talk to voters in the electoral body regardless of what is also selected from the list. That might be the point. I'd say I'd give most of my salary if I only had two men who would be my employees, who would have been available for eight hours. I think you could do your job as a representative far better than you've done so far. Maybe that's the topic that should be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109222	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109223	Dear counterpart Pandek, for the work of political parties, also writes to you in the Rules of Procedure that board members are members of political parties. The board first said that then the broad interpretation of each MP was. You get, your party, the SDP, even though it's lost part of all those MPs, monthly per MP gets. So, you don't win, I'm talking about a party not you. On your behalf and last name because of you, because of your adopted mandate, you get not to buy cars, but to work, to get MPs to work. You'll change your mind very quickly if something like this happens to you. But this is a question, it's not even a question of my mandate anymore, my term of office is almost over. It is a matter of justice and justice, a question of whether a representative can work or cannot work, whether the party has the right to the money or not. So let's just go to the state budget and get that money back or let it go for the kids for the disabled for the main kids than to have parties buy cars, hire their relatives and do a lot of wrong in society. Of what? Stronger parties have become law, parties are above all else, and you know it very well that if Zoran Milanovic decides anything, you can put yourself on eyelashes, it will be as Zoran Milanovic decides or as Tomislav Karamarko decides. And that was before Mrs. Kosor decided, how Sanader decided and that's it. There's no "d" in our parties from democracy. That one man, one voice. That's why I left my party and left which is undemocratic, yes, that's why I left. I've shown you my example. So, just don't let me from the SDP on democracy. On Friday, you showed up when you cut off your kids sick, so you might be ashamed of it. You remember Friday, just remember Friday!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109224	Drazen Djurovic, a replica of Nikola Vuljanic's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109225	Thank you. Here is Mr Vuljanić, you yourself, you have established the tendency to have money in America, and you have wondered who the government in Croatia is and you have not answered that question. I would give you a few suggestions, so let's say under (a) bankers, under (b) refugees, (c) judicial mafia, (d) HDZ, SDP, (e) Croatian Parliament and Croatian Government or under (f) someone sixth. If you ask me, I'll say my opinion even though you haven't asked me. I think that no one in Croatia is ruling and that is, in fact, the problem of Croatia, which is that no one is ruling. So we don't have a system where we have actually established a real structure and where there really would be someone who rules. For me, it's a little declassified to compare with the United States and accuse them of having money. It is simply a world power that has excellent and political and social and economic results, unlike the Republic of Croatia, which has neither had nor had its results since its establishment. And precisely because in this Croatia, in fact, the Croatian state has never functioned in all its constituents. Maybe because we're a young country, a young society, maybe in the decades that are coming will work. But for this situation since the start of the establishment of the Croatian state, the greatest responsibility to date is at least the political and constitutional certainty of the Croatian Parliament, so you are carrying me, bearing the current vice president, bearing Duja Marasovic and the other 150 people currently sitting here or those who were sitting here before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109226	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109227	Exactly, my colleague, you have quite a list of all those who manage Croatia, and now all of this is put into one pot, it mixes well and there is one political goulash that manages Croatia, or which manages confusion in Croatia, because there is confusion in Croatia. I'm still convinced, maybe I'm a little too paranoid that even behind that confusion are three smart men or four or five who know why they're doing it. Once Mark Twain said, I don't understand whether we have a group of fools who don't know what they're doing or a group of smart people who are messing with us. I think this is different. I think that's different. In America, the government of plutocracy is a fact, but they know who rules and dilemmas there is, so there is also an organization that can actually monitor and absorb certain social earthquakes that occur. We don't have that. We have the Social Democrats on the right, the right hand is socially extremely sensitive, dear God no longer knows what anyone thinks or where they go, and real bosses have accounts abroad. Those accounts show up. And now we've received from the finance minister the answer that this process will continue, it will take years. The bill of law to shorten this procedure to 10 days you have on the agenda. You don't want to put it on the agenda, you want to keep it in 55 places. It's not random chaos. That way, no one's stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109228	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109229	Dear Madam Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's obvious from the debate that we're still struggling with some of the fundamental problems that we say this High House has to solve over the past 25 years, and it's done little or nothing. I doubt that this assembly that goes to its end will move something and do it in order to be spectacular and to help us get out of the crisis. It's just like that and I don't see that light at the end of the tunnel, I don't see it, it might be my dioptria, but I don't see it. If this stays the way it is now, then I don't really see that light. We need radical changes, structural changes, much needs to be changed in Croatia. In this debate, I'll just mention some things, and the rest will be spoken by Mr. Damir Cain. If we refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia itself, then, according to the Constitution in the Croatian Parliament, the least should be 101 MPs and not more than 160. We stick to the practice with 151 or 152 MPs. The council costs taxpayers very much and some have calculated roughly that each day this Parliament from the state budget, which is taxpayers' money takes over 250 thousand kuna. It's expensive work, and the effect of the Parliament, we said it was almost nothing. Obviously, there should be a reduction in the number of parliamentary deputies, and in my opinion, let us go to the constitutional category to be at least 101 MPs, which would reduce the number of employees in the Assembly and they are 250 and which would reduce the pressure on the state budget. Clearly, the Alliance for Civil and Ethical Croatia advocates, but it cannot push Mosor itself, advocates structural changes and should do so, and structural changes, as Brussels tells us, but also root changes when it comes to structural changes. The issue is the regionalisation of Croatia, but I wouldn't tie that word up as a drunk float because I can stay in the county. The county of Dalmatia, the county of Slavonia and Baranja, may remain the County of Primorje-goranska, Istria or two counties. So I can stay counties in the name but you need to cut the number of counties. And I'd like to argue that our counties become election units as well. And he doesn't have to be afraid of the right option to lose, because if he gets individually in 4 Dalmatian counties most of them, then he'd get most of it if those counties were united, and that would contribute to a lower cost on the state budget and I'm better convinced of the functioning. So, the county as an electoral unit because these 12 electoral units are as many as we have now, and Croatia by the number of inhabitants of one city of medium size could also have one constituency. When it comes to dealing with general affairs, I think, which is the last time, that politicians should be regardless of political commitment and the names of parties or initiatives that they should be humanists because they work for the common good and then they should be humanists. But the emphasis spoken by Mr Vukšić Croatia is divided but in my opinion it is divided into a civil part of Croatian society and so on. a reactionary or part that looks back, on the past and on the past, also lives out of a past-generation conflict. I'd like us to be humanists, work for the greater good and not solve our own interests. Mr. Cain will continue on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109230	Honorable Vice-Presidents, gentlemen of the law shall enter into force on 1.10.05, except for certain provisions not to quote them, which shall enter into force 8 days after the publication of this law in the National Journal. Does that mean we'll have the election by 1.10.05? Possible? We won't. But whatever they had until 1.10 or after the 1.10th order would be to know, when, perhaps already today, when they will be held. We go in this order first, or from the end, financing referendum activities and referendum promotions. Article 45, I will not say as someone here has said that this almost makes the referendum impossible, but I agree that religious communities should or should be allowed in some way that if they want to participate. It is clear that this article 45. must be monitored by Article 52. where the total amount of the costs of the referendum activity at national level of 4 million kuna, then we have that 1 million kuna for the City of Zagreb, 600 thousand for the counties and the large city, etc. for a small town of 100,000, or 50 grand for a municipality. If the 20% clearly comes together, but I'm asking myself, why is it necessary to raise 10% of the votes at the state level? Then a normal referendum should be called and the funds should be clearly provided by local self-government or state. The big thing, to be cynical, which happened a while ago is that we finally know what 10% of the Republic of Macedonia is. What I think should simply be determined one day to hold all the referendums in Croatia and all the simple referendums should be pushed into that date because this could clearly reduce costs. What is also needed to change the Constitution once, when it comes to referendums, a lot of these double criteria, one at national level, the other at local level. It cannot be 43% of the turnout, in fact, 43% of the turnout is binding on Croatia or on us to join the EU, and let's say that 43% at some local level does not commit or produce any legal effects. It can't be 37% binding, so when we talk about a state referendum amending the Constitution, there's those definitions about marriage, and 36% for Plomin not to produce any legal effects or I don't know about the Buzet compost behind which is the mayor of Pula's head and beard anyway. They say, though, what do they say? 36% of Plomin needs to be committed to the government, and then so many votes in Buzet should not oblige those who simply adopt such principles. I am against this law that the site can finance the Croatian political scene. If you ask me who donates whoever benefits from some kind of policy. As a rule, it's in 99% of cases. You get us a job, we get you money, you get us a concession, we get you money, you get us land, we get you money, and that's how Croatia's been working since 2000. How are political activities financed? Only dominant from the budget. This way of funding under this law or under this law is just crumbs. These provisions only oblige those who are not in power, and those who are not in charge of all their budgetary, non-profit activities, non-working ones direct only to the elections and finance them clearly public money. The biggest problem is media funding by state or local authorities. The biggest problem is PR financing by state and local authorities. We are now beginning to smile at ministers from small screens, commissioners, mayors, mayors, newspapers are their home bulletins, and this practice should be stopped. Who's paying for it? That's what citizens pay for. I said before my county case, 15 million to 17 million kuna for the PR and for the media. In space only Istria local self-government serves over 10 PR agencies. This practice was not until 2009, until 2010. How do you do that? Well, of course it's done by local means or budget means, and then those who get that money "tether the horse where the boss tells them to." The question is clear whether or not this practice is going to end? In Zagreb they probably will, they won't go anywhere else. This law is absolutely necessary and necessary in one part, and this is about these reports which were to be submitted independently, primarily by members of units or councils of local self-government. So in the representative bodies of 277 local units, there were 867 independent members who were selected from independent lists. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The sanctions in certain cases were also 50 and 60 thousand kuna. Such a clear practice cannot exist. What I certainly believe should be changed is the total amount of election promotion costs per candidate or candidate list in Article 19. I think that should be reduced absolutely, 8 million kunas of money is not needed for the campaign of the President of the Republic or 1.5 million kuna per piece of paper in some constituency or 4 million kuna for the election of a member of the European Parliament, or millions of kuna for the selection of the mayor of Zagreb and not to add more and more. But in the end, we realize that it simply amounts to you, and in some cases, ten times the amount allowed. I see no longer mention in this law the funding of lists competing for city, municipal, county, etc. Councils and that this should be installed, but in certain counties an amount that one party can spend may already exceed the amount of 5, 6 or more million kuna by the basis of this law. I also advocate that this amount of 50 million kuna of the total cost that should be used for "functioning of parliamentary party life" for example, or for independent candidates in the Croatian Parliament that should literally be halved. Secondly, when we talk about these donations, that should be influenced. If someone gives you two hundred thousand kunas, then it's binding on you, if someone gives you 10, 20, or 30,000 kuna, and not exactly. But these great amounts when it comes to being convinced there are those of us who have long been in Parliament and in the city councils, and we know that when someone gives 200 thousand kunas that money should be returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109231	Drazen Djurovic replicas the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109232	Thank you. You said Mr. Grubisic took the money, I quote, and you said the Parliament takes the money about 250,000 kuna a day. I think that's how you contributed to one atmosphere of Croatian institutions' links and an additional collapse that is constantly present. In our speech and this is how our institutions are fragile, and the rating of the Croatian Parliament is probably at never lower levels than the establishment of the Croatian state, and we speak more of this only encourages this mood because we say that institutions are taking money. So that's how you create an illusion like there's some kind of pile of money that's then shared here daily between these people or some other people. I mean the cost of Croatian institutions or Croatian state apparatus is not the money someone takes but is the money that goes to the salaries and expenses of all institutions and also the Croatian Parliament. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that we, too, often in our speech, further undermine Croatian institutions ourselves and further create and strengthen the vision of their failures, their corruptiveness, their incompetence, and undermine the ratings that is not God-knows-what a sincere thing to say. And secondly, when you were talking about the light at the end of the tunnel that you didn't see it, I don't see it either, honestly speaking, although I think the changes in the electoral system or the proposal for a referendum initiative "In the name of the family" in amendments to the electoral legislation were actually that light at the end of the tunnel that was almost at hand and sufficient so that it was very little so that it could be achieved by accepting and adopting such an initiative and passing such a law, I think that the picture and the Croatian Assembly would be completely changed in the next term, and thus the complete relationship of political power and the possibility of taking a new step.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109233	Ivan Grubisic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109234	Pointing out the facts I don't think it's undermining any institution, but simply the figures are stubborn and they should be held together. I'd be the last to undermine the functioning of institutions if they were doing well, but I'd be among the first to point out if it wasn't good that it wasn't good. I think that on this second part of your remark you should say that this light may be and I said, the question of my dioptria I don't see, but if you see that there is this light at the end of the tunnel that will take us out of the crisis then you owe it to this house to explain it and say it and I will personally be very grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109235	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109236	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear assistants with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I would really focus on the points we think that this is the first reading, that it should be done in some way, and that, until the second reading of the remark, maybe we should take into account that we would somehow make this law so as to say as much as possible, as far as possible, and that especially for a large number of independent lists and independent candidates, we should make it easier because we are all aware that there are a lot of them at the judge for the offence and this data that 60% of them have not submitted financial reports definitely says that the laws as they are should be done, we should adapt them. And regardless of how much better this law is, that it may be easier to understand in any case, I do not justify that an independent candidate does not submit a financial report because these are all people who are running to be in the bodies of the local self-government and self-government units or in the Croatian Parliament, and as such, they should be an example and no matter how incomprehensible the laws may sometimes be or may be interpreted in a double way, they must also respect what is legal regulation and satisfy it. In Article 4, we are talking about the amount of 0.08% of the tax revenue achieved from the previous annual report on the implementation of the budget, and not more than 50 000 kuna. So, I am glad that both the Government and the Croatian Labours are on the same track and that we agreed that we cannot base our funding on the regular annual financing of political parties and independent representatives on the spending side of the state budget rather than that it should definitely be an income side. I believe what Minister Bauk said in his opening statement that from the first reading to the second reading we will also crystallise the proposal of Croatian Labourists regarding this law and the proposal of the Government and that we may find one common solution, or the best solution there. But either way, we're putting a 50 million kuna limit on each other, and that's what I think right now is a good message. The funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government elected from the list of constituents from the budget of units of local and regional self-government shall be obliged to provide units of local self-government in the budget of the local self-government unit for each year for which the budget is made that the amount of funds cannot be less than 1000 kuna per year per member of the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. That's on a good track. It is important to limit that minimum amount. The more the municipalities, cities and counties allocated 55 million kuna in 2013, so more than 50 million of what we put up in Article 4(1) as a certain limit. But 180 units of local self-government were not involved in this amount. So 180 units of local self-government paid their councilors no kuna. And on the trail of a replica that was on the prime minister's opening statement, the question is, how do we value the work of a certain councilman in a particular municipality or in a certain city? Is this councilman who acts as a councilman in a municipality that may be less developed and has a lower budget worth less or works less than someone who is in a municipality who has higher incomes? Let us not forget that we are all fighting for the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia, that we are all fighting for uniform budgets in units of local self-government and this is precisely the mark of this minimum amount of 1000 kuna. But I also think that until the second reading, we should think about putting a certain amount for all councilmen the same so that we can value the councilors in the same way and that the councilman in any municipality has the same fee, the councilman in any city the same fee and councilman in any county has the same fee. I think that would be the only good message, like this with the minimum amount, and not limiting the maximum amount, I'm afraid the difference will be much, much greater. In Article 5, we are talking about an alternative, so whether or not, members selected from the voters' list will be entitled to receive regular annual funding from the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government only if decided by the representative body of the unit of regional, or regional self-government. In the club, we think it's a possibility of corruption, big corruption, and in any case we shouldn't leave it at will to the representative body of the unit of local self-government, because that is how these independent council members can be manipulated with exactly that kind of compensation. And we suggest that, instead of this alternative, we might leave Article 5(1) and (2), which might then be a little bit better defined. It is mentioned in Article 8 that the funds from the state budget are available to the political party's central account, i.e. the special account of an independent agent. Article 2 states that funds from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government shall be made available to the jury of the political party. I think we should have a uniform statement, and if we're talking about the political party's central account, we should name the central account in all articles. If the applicant considers that there is a difference between a central and a jury account, then I would ask him to tell me later in his address why it is central in one article, so when political parties receive money, then he becomes the central account of the political party and the funds from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government on the jury account. I believe that this should all be the central account of the political party, as much as possible in the following articles, we are talking about the obligations of the political party and the obligations of those candidates who have been delegated by the political parties. Article 9(4) refers to the case of the implementation of the funds in a special account, i.e. an independent representative. If an independent representative is obliged to open a special account during his campaign, then we believe that this account is indeed special and that the obligation in this case is to communicate with the Ministry of Finance. And that these accounts, given that everything must be transparent on them, that the data must be delivered to the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office, so that such accounts opened with a special purpose should not therefore be blocked and the funds from those accounts should not be completed. The more it says here, therefore, that an independent representative is required no later than 8 days from the day of the implementation, or no later than the closure of the special account, if the deadline for closing the special account remains less than 8 days, that money is due to be returned. If we take into account and assume that an independent representative has all his accounts and so on, then the question is, where will that representative return that money, and we know that few of the independent representatives of the money from that account will spend it on personal needs, so spend it on an election campaign because it says this law. Reports and financial and everything else are transparent and everything must be listed inside. Therefore, we are bringing them into a very, very unpleasant situation, and this time I appeal to the ministry to communicate with the Ministry of Tax Administration that these accounts that are related to election promotion are protected accounts in that category of protected accounts. In accordance with Article 10(1) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission notes that the amount of cash, the non-performing financial resources obtained from the State budget or the budget of the units of local self-government must be returned to those who gave them. And we mention the word in item 2, exceptionally, so we can consider, we can also make a return to the property that an independent candidate bought with these money. We must not mention extremely, unless extremely in the law, everything that is extremely meaningful is taxing. So it turns out that if someone with the money they got during their term of office bought a cell phone or a closet or a laptop, the IRS would have to assess the market value of that property and then they would have to return the market equivalent of that property, but especially some would be able to return the laptop, phone and closet that I don't think we should afford because it has to be. So if we want to have a word extremely in the laws, then that word must be taxed on what is under exceptional meaning, otherwise we lead to unequal treatment and self-will in interpreting this law which leads to legal uncertainty. So in Article 15, we are talking about funding from own resources, and among other things, the entry into the information system for financing control must provide indicative information on the amount and source of own resources intended to be spent on election promotion. What does this provision mean? I'd say nothing, because what are the sanctions if the candidate says he's gonna spend 10,000 kunas of his money, and the other says he's gonna spend a million kunas of his own money? I think we're just opening one of Pandora's boxes where we were now witnessing in the presidential election where some presidential candidates said they were going to spend only 10,000 kuna in this campaign. That's what citizens get for it. And ultimately, if this is not realised or if the amount is subsequently found to have been spent much more, there are no sanctions, so I suggest that this one be deleted in Article 15(1). I will say the rest in replicas, we have a few suggestions and suggestions in which to amend this law, but what I would definitely like to warn in this time is still an article 72 which says that the law will be published in "The People's Journal" and enters into force on 1 October 2015, except for those provisions in articles that stand here, which take effect on the eighth day of the publication of this law in "The People's Journal". I personally believe that there has been a labus, or technical error, because certain provisions cannot enter into force before the law itself, and I think this is about the reverse, that maybe the law comes into force, and that certain provisions of October 1st, so here would the proposer ask to pay attention also to this article 72. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109237	Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109238	Ms. Tyrelli said of representatives in municipalities and cities that some do not receive any compensation for their work and that a law should be passed that obliges the municipality or the city to make equal compensation for everyone. I think it would be more of a criterion to introduce a common tax for all the municipalities that can't pay for it and the cities of the valley. The second thing that remains unclear to me, if a representative in the Croatian Parliament comes through an independent list to the Parliament, and then changes the party and then gives his money to a party that is not at all in the Parliament or has run or has its own representatives, then that money goes to the party. I think that should also be arranged to make it more transparent and responsible for dealing with taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109239	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109240	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, you've been talking about how the council fees are paid and that 180 units of local self-government haven't paid the council fees. In addition, you were also talking about a polypragmasia that governs our units of local self-government. Like what? The town of Slavonski Brod has a regular monthly fee for the work of councilmen, the County of Brod-Posavina has a fee per session, so by session, I won't talk about amounts, it's unnecessary. So there's a polypragmasia in everything, and 180 units of local self-government just says that we have too many units of local self-government that can't carry out their legal obligations based on both the old and this new law. So, after that, there are lawsuits and therefore no use, but the lawyers have work to do and then there are legal fees and rewards, etc. And we have a situation that's more expensive than pie says. But what my colleague Grubisic was saying about the transition, so independent parties, so it's just harder, or the tendency is to actually strengthen the parties and that the new appearance of independent councilors, and I am deeply convinced that they will be in the future elections much more, to move into parties. So even when someone from the party goes to independents, they have no right to, so to pull with them and the money. When he goes from independent to party then he goes to party money again. So, that's what you tell me, me to yourself. It's a principle that's completely unfair and I don't think it's a good principle in Articles 5 and 6 of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109241	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109242	Yes, I thank you for the replica of my colleague Grubisic. We agree, therefore, that there is a great dispersion in these paid fees in this part, and that is why I have warned that we may find another reading because we have the same compensation for all councilors in municipalities, cities and counties because we would thus treat all councilors in the Republic of Croatia equally. That's one reason. The second reason is because we're having trouble with local self-government units. Therefore, if the local self-government unit does not have the money to finance the council members who should be a representative body, then the question of the reason for the existence of the municipality itself or the city is raised. And that's what I think we're all gonna have to think about. As far as this transition is concerned, I think you said one detail wrong, maybe I didn't understand the law well. But if an independent councilman moves on to a political party, I think he can decide for himself whether that money will be left to himself or whether the money will give confirmation that, or a statement that the money is moving into a political party. If he agrees with the money being the political party's money, then he is not obliged to submit financial reports. But if he, as an independent councilman, is the money that, therefore, he kept to himself, then he is obliged, regardless of being a member of some political party, to submit a financial report as an independent councilman. So, for those receipts that he gets over the year. Here's what I think it says in the law, but I guess we'll hear an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109243	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109244	Dear Madam President, colleague Tyrelli. You said this law was good, because somehow it was in line with your proposal by the Labourist with the government's proposal. I don't agree, I don't mean something too bad against him to say. But this whole Law on the financing of political parties and pre-election campaign is deeply demagogue. This is what we should confess to ourselves in Croatia, and then we can start with the truth about how we are going to make the right law. Why is it demagogue? Because we're limiting funds to bet. Here I am if I want to sell the house, why don't I sell my house and invest in my campaign? I don't see any moral problem in that. We limit the funds for selecting mayors in Split to 400,000 kuna. You can't finance a campaign with that. And you were talking about a series of details I can't say in these two minutes. Why did I think this was demagogue all together? Because if we split the total cost of the state administration, that's one thing, and now we're talking about political parties to us Parliamentarians and so on. It is necessary to reduce the number, the cost in a way that also reduces the number of parliamentary representatives. For example, we are now 35, 35 more on these boards, on the roads, on the Europeans, ok. One 70, 75 people. And the Parliament is doing great. So what's the other 75 for? You don't have to. The number of representatives in parliament should be reduced to 75, to a maximum of 101 and thus, not to reduce revenues to political parties. Also at the level of local self-government. In the city of Split there were 25 councilmen, this set was raised to 35 councilmen, instead of reducing to 21 or 19. It is at the level of the year only these new arrivals several million kuna accounts alone, and at the state level many millions of kunas. So we lie to ourselves, we talk to each other, and we do the other. The number of representatives should be reduced, and you spoke to other colleagues. That he needs money from political parties because it's a drive. I was party president, they hold meetings, they have campaigns The parties need money for their operation. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109245	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109246	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues for the replica. So, I said not that the law is good, but I said that the law, this bill is better than what we've had so far, because some things have been clarified and that it will be easier to apply them, and I said that I am glad that the government's proposal is on the same track as the labourer's proposal and about the payout, so money, or funds to political parties. If we're talking about demagogy, here's a minute and 30 seconds I'm a little tied to these laws. So, what we had so far, we had laws. The question is how did we implement them, how did we implement them and how the political parties ran their campaign, how much money and how much money it was and where it was transparently shown everything they spent. So we have institutions, and it is precisely through laws and regulations that it is important to pass laws where we will all be equal, laws that will be treated equally, and bodies that will equally control all, so all parties that are in this process, and in this case I mean both political parties and independent candidates, or independent lists that must then be responsible for any failures and for how to finance their campaigns against the letters of this law. We limit the funds, so I agree with you when political parties need funds to act, but I think it might be good to set a certain limit precisely because of what I said before because some parties come to money in a strange way and then I can spend more on those who come to money in a legal way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109247	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109248	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleagues Tyrelli about the evaluation of councilman's work by pushing for a way of being equally valued in terms of their responsibility and their work, but of course we're aware of that public opinion, the perceptions that our people would say this is something like this, but when the vote list is agreed on, then everyone gets along a little bit with those lists and has a lot of candidates. It's different later. Not to mention the other part of the chiefs who often call the sheriffs at the same level even though the sheriff can, of course, care about people's property, keeping public order and peace. But well, that's one other part. I want to say that it is a much more important issue to advocate for the normal functioning of local self-government units, normally, given the obligations imposed on it, every day more and more. And in that part there are many with many problems. On the other hand, those funds that would belong to them and which should be denied. I was talking about that part of income tax where there were simply certain funds regardless of what Mr. Minister said it was not so reduced safely to local self-government units. And in that part, it should also be advocated for equality. And those small units need to provide their children and preschools and kindergartens and all other functions. I think that in that part too, we need the consistent and even development of Croatia but, of course, the Charter of Local Self-Government which kind of us. We are also aware that each of our environments has its own specificity. You come from a place where tourism is important and important and in that part you certainly need. But I come from a region where hydrocarbons are exploited, where they poison us with such a variety of harmful factors. I got the Vrdoljak Minister's response here today, says if you see you get less, based on your office, and your country has been increased by 156%. So please be nice! What kind of equality is that? Here, that way you should think the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109249	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109250	I'd like to thank the vice president and thank my colleague for the replica. So we agree in this part. I think you're also on the verge of my thinking that the councilmen should be equally valued. However, we are coming up with a problem of centralisation and decentralisation of funds, and we are all aware that here we are also at the latest amendments to the Income Tax Act discussing exactly how much units of local self-government will get less and that, in parallel with this, we are each day passing laws that give these units more and more financial obligations that they have to implement. That's definitely a big problem. I wanted to point out here that I am thinking in this direction because I believe that no matter where the municipality is, whether it is in Istria, whether it is with you, whether there is any councilman who does his job seriously has the right to compensation and that units of local self-government should plan certain funds for this councilman because without councilors or without city council and municipal councils, there is no way that a municipality can function. So we need to have here to say the division of responsibility in the units of local self-government, and I think that if the council members were equally rewarded to have somehow greater responsibility and greater personal responsibility to raise or not raise their hands in that unit for matters concerning their citizens. And regarding therefore insufficient funds in local self-government units, I agree with you, but that is why every law we are discussing here in the Assembly must be kept in mind that we are constantly warning that units of local self-government are not subject to greater obligations unless they are provided with these greater obligations somewhere and the means with which they could implement these obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109251	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, colleagues Furio Radin and Veljko Kajtazi will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109252	Thank you very much. Let's not ignore the fact that when we discuss the reasons why money should go to parties, why money should go to independent deputies, why money should go to independent lists to be seen by our employers. The ones whose money it is. And they say watch these people say that in a way that's not vulgar, they have a duel with other people's swords to say so. The swords are ours, and they're there in the duel. They're talking about how they're gonna spend our money. And then because I started in one way that is rhetorical and by examples of many other little demagogues then I will continue for another moment a little rhetorical or demagogue and then I will say afterwards why this law should be adopted. Instead of asking whether the parties need that money and how much they need that money, and whether these parties really need that money, let's see if there's a third option without the parties being financed by citizens and not by tycoons, but rather by financing them, for example. You remember the Communist alliance, from your members. So, for example. Your members give 2%, 3% of their salary. If they really love you, if they really want to be your members and let them pay for it, then they will control you more. Why shouldn't the parties depend on their members? So much for partothocracy in Croatia. As he said before, counterpart Grubisic, another Grubisic he does not now, independent MPs if they become independent they do not have, can not carry their money, but if they already come to independent means carrying their money, then if they move into the party then the party can take their money. In a way, the party is always profiting. The system is part-christical. Let us not forget those words that were said just before, Mr. Minister, when the representative is independent then he decides on himself, and when the party decides on membership. They're not true. And when it is a party, it is decided by the individual. If we are practical, and we are practical people we will know very well that and when the party decides the narrow circle of people. Let's not fool ourselves. That's true, you can contaminate me as much as you want, but intimately you know that I'm right, that all the money converts to one place and a small number of people have that money. That's right, and this one, in the end, actually, democracy has very little. As well as the fact that, and said before, Mr. Minister, the fact that the Constitution says that the financing of political parties is operationalized to say or determine by law. But it also states in the Constitution that a representative does not have a binding mandate, which would include that when he becomes independent he carries everything with him if it is such a system, if it is not a system that the party depends on membership as I said before he could be a third time. More members of more money already. I think he's quite legitimate, but here in this case a binding mandate wouldn't be interpreted like that. And now to say, if I don't talk about partocracies anymore is that ultimately we're independent, we representatives of national minorities shouldn't need us, it shouldn't be a problem for us, because we're mostly independent of talking about why. We will adopt this law, we will accept this law and we will vote for it, of course, if it appears in this form and in another reading because the legislator has accepted our proposals to be independent, and he who goes as an independent representative is treated as a party. After all, it is a party of one, he will not say it for himself, puts his money on the house, puts his own risk on the plate to become a representative. As such, he enters the Parliament and according to himself normally not to have a binding mandate, he is, all MPs are the same, he has the same dignity that an independent representative who has been elected as an independent representative and I claim that should be applied to those who become, but since then. Now I'm talking about the reasons why we're going to pass this law. The one who enters as an independent representative or at a local level who has the same dignity as the other, the same duties, the same rights, the same vote for the Constitution, is worth his vote, as the other votes count, must have absolutely the same rights as all the other MPs. So why not, if he converts to a particular party he carries his own, his financial assets to that party because he has decided to marry one party or that he will no longer be single but will be a member of a particular party, he decides on it. For this reason, we agree because it retains the dignity of independent representatives and MPs and not the independent lists. Let's not forget independent lists are expressions of civil society, an expression of resistance to partocracy. That's why they're being created at local level. The less political, the less high the political parties have, the more they appear. It's a company release, isn't it? And the normal thing that we have to evaluate if there's such a system, if there's a system for party members, how do you say, to support their party that's another thing, then that would be worth the same thing to independent representatives. And I conclude in the end with the remarks that we have made and which have just been presented and that it is clear that an independent representative who belongs, that an independent representative who is run by a group of voters is the same thing as an independent representative with independent lists to add and an independent representative of national minorities who is regularly running by a group of voters, and that thing was brought to the National Minorities Club together with the minister and the minister accepted it, is that so, let it be clear. With such changes, we will vote for this law and we will show that our dignity is the same as the dignity of others, and we will kill all those who have said you have fewer votes than we are. And how many fewer votes do we have... The MPs will show up shortly after the preferential votes in the next elections to see how much each MP is worth. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here you go, Mr. Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109253	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about finance and political work and I want to highlight the problem that I, as a representative of 12 national minorities, face especially in terms of field work and funding. Namely, the 12 national minorities I represent are located in all counties throughout the Republic of Croatia. It's my responsibility to represent everything equally well, which results in me being in my term almost every day on the ground. I'd just like to mention some facts here that I can easily check out. For all the national minorities I represent, I have visited all the counties of our country, so in Međimurje more than 40 times, in Varazdin County over 20 times, in Bjelovarje-Biogorje over 30 times, in Osijek-Baranja more than 30 times in Vukovar-Srijemjemska more than 15 times, Brod-Posavia more than 20 times, Sisak-Moslavinajska over 30 times, Koprivičko-Kryzevaca over 15 times, Primorje-Gorskiska over 20 times, Istria over 20 times over 20 times. In all the other counties, I was somewhat smaller but I visited them at least three to four times. There was also talk in the debate on this law about the confiscation or reduction of the resources of independent deputies. I would like to stress that even these resources that I have are not sufficient in view of the duty I carry out and the great responsibility I have. Namely, fellow parliamentary representatives representing one, two or five national minorities or colleagues representing citizens who mostly live in only one county have the same means as I do. The problem also arises in the service of vehicle use because sometimes I win, and sometimes I have to organize myself in other ways. I believe that this issue should be addressed and developed ways for these problems not to happen in the future, especially given that, apart from representing as many as 12 national minorities, these minorities have a lot of problems, and I am not just thinking about the Roma National Minority. All the national minorities I represent have problems with both employment and existential issues and the issue of citizenship and education and so on. And I devote myself especially to everyone sometimes on an individual level. I can say that I have established good and quality communication with all national minorities and their organisations, and that such work is necessary and financially significant. I have also established the same good cooperation with the embassies of national minorities I represent so often we work together to mark their significant events, international events, workshops, conventions, associations, exhibitions and other cultural events. The vast majority of 12 national minorities have certain cultural, sports or similar manifestations that I am often invited to as a guest. Part of my job is to respond to associations from national communities because my coming from Parliament means honor and pride and trust. Many associations organize workshops, annual congregations, joys, mourning for loved ones, educational workshops. Many individuals have problems with local communities, city institutions. The problem of housing cannot be solved from the constituency bench, the problem with the youngest members and schools must be solved on site. It takes time, will, strength, and field work to do that. The vast majority of my colleagues in the assembly have no similar needs or problems of this kind, which makes it easy to talk about savings such as eliminating support for independent MPs. These savings will surely save our country from destruction. I feel free to say, and I hope my fellow MPs agree that only one minority such as Roma with problems within the community itself has every assumption that there is a special parliamentary representative given the amount of problems they face in the territory of the entire country. You all know that these problems aren't since yesterday and they've been going on since the Roma came to these places and I think it's about time we all got involved together and made an historic success. That it's possible we proved it as we did in the last 3.5 years because I have to admit that in everything I've done, I've had your support. When one of my esteemed colleagues saw my mother be taken away by children because they had no conditions for living, when you saw mice and rats reign over human homes, when you saw dear colleagues sleeping on a bed with a dog who was also warming up with my loyal warmth testifying about such and even more terrible images only because with all your associates and with the team on the ground. And then we can think and easily come up with a proposal to cut or cancel my financial support or to assign an official vehicle just sometimes because the costs are too high and burden our budget. The specific position of the Roma national minority also confirms a special document dealing with Roma issues such as the National Strategy for Roma and the 2005-2015 Action Plan, the problem is particularly important given that Roma do not have their own national state to worry about their problems. In the current situation, we have one representative. Which also represents 11 other national minorities equally seriously, despite the fact that these national minorities may be statistically small their needs are equally important, large and important. [[Intruder Dragica Zgrebec: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109254	Thank you very much. Bring the end, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109255	.../A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109256	My colleague spoke a little too long before you did. Tomislav Klaric replicas the presentation of Furia Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109257	Here's my colleague, Radin, I didn't mean to report for the replicas, but the previous speakers, and you mentioned independent lists, independent MPs, the way they were financed. There's that expression in both yours and my neighborhood. So independent lists running as such whether in local self-government units or here in the Parliament have all the rights as well as all parties. And I personally believe that, and I hope that the majority here thinks that they set up bandits who, for some reason, have gone to independent or some other party, have come here to the Parliament or to the local self-government unit on the lists of some parties based on the programs that these parties have announced to their voters. And that those assets that are either in their place or in the Parliament or the local self-government unit still belong to the party and not to some independent person who, for reasons I don't know which of his own private, personal, political, have already gone to the independent list and as such sits here and I don't see any reason to advocate that they belong to any kind of means that otherwise must belong to the party because the party has invested in it. And the question is would he have come here at all if he hadn't put him on his list in a local self-government unit as a representative or councilman? I think that question is very simple. So an independent list, if someone wants to be independent, is running on an independent list, realising, has all the rights as any party. If, in the meantime, half or at the end of the term of office, he comes out of the party for what reasons I don't think he deserves any rights other than the fees he has for his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109258	In principle, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109259	Comrade Radin, you must report to the replica, or here you are, for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109260	Excuse me, excuse me. Sit down, sit down?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109261	Please don't, but I'm telling you to report back in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109262	Thank you very much, thank you very much. My bad, my bad. In principle, I agree with you because there are really a lot of MPs coming out of their parties because, as you said, you remember, Otto or the new gangiers as you will. Yeah, they change their mind. But you will agree with me that some of the parties are these bandits, and then MPs come out, no matter what party, and MPs come out of them because they've changed. So it's here, it's slippery enough, but I don't have any problem accepting your thesis. None. ... Yes, with a supplement. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109263	Marijan Skurić, a replica also on a colleague of Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109264	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow I would also refer to your presentation and with an emphasis where you have repeatedly cited independence, independent lists, independent council members, independent representatives. I think we can also agree that independence in this full respect is hardly there. If you go to the lists yourself then someone must also stand behind you and an even worse solution is that after you leave the party and become some kind of independent representative or councilman. So you must always have someone behind you who shares your opinion, who shares your worldview and ultimately of which you have support. So I think you'd better be like we... that, instead of independent lists and independence, it would be a list of a group of citizens or a candidate of a group of citizens who would, however, better and more uniformly define what it is. an independent list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109265	Would you like to answer that? On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109266	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. In the process of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in early 2011, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. The law, which has been amended several times in the meantime and its provisions have also been the subject of questioning and the suspension by the Constitutional Court in Croatia has introduced extremely strict supervision of the financing of political actors' work. He introduced rules guaranteeing adequate transparency in the financing of political campaigns and positioned Croatia in one of the highest places in terms of transparency in the financing of political life. Although it is a pity that this law has not been passed and a few years earlier because then probably some affairs like FIMI MEDIA could be prevented but well. However, the law in question, although good, had a number of shortcomings. First of all, it is dualism of administrative and criminal punishment and overlapping sanctions, a problem of the competence of political bodies such as the Committee on the Constitution or representative bodies of the units of local self-government that should have been punished by political actors who themselves sat in those bodies. Furthermore, the sanctions imposed in fixed amounts were often disproportionate to the offences manifested by both the Constitutional Court and abolished those provisions, etc. In view of these and other shortcomings, a new law has been adopted before us today in the form of the Bill on the financing of political activities, the election promotion of the referendum in the first reading. The SDP representative club supports this bill because it considers it good, considers it to be an exceptional step towards an existing solution but, of course, to the state that there are also things in it that should be corrected. What we particularly welcome is the fact that this law corrects the shortcomings or certain illogicalities that existed in the previous Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion. The overlapping of sanctions has been removed and are clearly distinguished from administrative sanctions or more for the same offences is not intended to be punished through both proceedings but one or the other. The issue of administrative punishment, I personally hold this particularly important and perhaps even the most important part of this law, has been transferred from political bodies to an independent body, the State Election Commission, which will ensure the impartiality and independence of such sanctioning. And the sanctions laid down by law are reduced to proportionate and understandable frameworks. Of course, any decision by the State Election Commission will be subject to judicial control, which only further strengthens the impartiality of such a decision. Furthermore, this law has other improvements compared to the current situation. It provides a unique way to publish financial reports in a way that is published through the State Election Commission, which will eventually provide a permanently available catalogue of financial reports, something similar to what we already have on the website of the State Election Commission in terms of the results of the election. In this way, our public, but also the scientific community, will be able to access and use these data permanently, and transparency of the financing of political activity will be further strengthened. The law, which has not been the case so far, also regulates the funding of referendum campaigns. This has so far been messy, which has been a major problem in practice. As in the case of all other elections, and in the case of a referendum, there is a limitation of campaign costs and a public obligation is introduced to publish all costs incurred in connection with it. Here, however, it is necessary to point out the restrictive nature of the proposal regarding who may, and who must not finance such campaigns, and is invited to consider these provisions of the law. In a new way, the issue of financing regular political activity from the state budget is regulated in a way that is linked to income, not as it has been so far with budget expenditure, and that the maximum annual amount to finance the political activity from the state budget is determined which we, in the SDP Representatives Club, all-out support. Since the bill also included the proposal sent by colleagues from the Croatian Labour Club, we consider that their proposal is consummated by this law, so we suggest that our colleagues support the law and withdraw their proposal to amend and supplement the existing Law on the financing of political activity. However, as this first reading is, we are obliged to direct certain criticisms and call on the Proposer to correct them until the second reading of the law. The primary remark refers to the alternative in Article 5 of the Law. We believe that all elected representatives must have the same conditions for funding from public funds, and we are afraid that the proposed alternative solution would pave the way for political corruption which should certainly be prevented, so we ask the promoter to seriously consider whether this alternative is useful and whether it should be kept in the final draft of the law. We also hold that the provision of Article 43(9) of the Law, which reads the decisions of the State Election Commission referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article, should be made public on the websites of the State Election Commission, in order to ensure that absolutely all decisions taken by the DIP by means of a pyrication of political actors are made public in the same way. In short, it is a good bill that the SDP Representatives Club will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109267	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109268	Comrade Grbin, first of all, as regards your public invitation to withdraw our bill because it was consummated in the government's proposal. I wouldn't quite agree that it was consummated until the end, but if the minister in his final... says they will also go to the solution that the basis for the calculation of funds is the current budget, not the accepted report on the implementation of the budget two years ago, then we are close. Al, we won't withdraw the bill because you always have a chance to refuse it, regardless of voting against, for or abstention, whatever. Secondly, the 57th article was apostrophe in part of the financing of referendum initiatives. I really want to highlight the importance of this provision because so far we have had the absolute freedom of associations to finance referendum initiatives. This bill contains an absolute ban on associations other than associations of workers and employers to finance in any way different referendum or pro-tureferendum initiatives and indeed none of what we have had so far but not this, the absolute ban system is good. And I agree with the Proposer's call to find a golden environment by the second reading. Then I would agree with you that this law is good because whenever we went with absolute bans, we opened up new points of corruption risk and illegal financing. And if we find a common environment that will be acceptable to the organizations, and yet again to the meaning of this provision, that would be a great progress and hopefully the minister understood what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109269	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109270	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Lesar, if we're close, then I guess we'll agree because from the first moment you went out publicly with this proposal to limit the way in which the state budget's political activity is being financed, we and the SDP's representatives in the Croatian Parliament have supported this initiative, and apparently the government has accepted it and placed it in this law with these little adjustments, and in the way you propose them, I think we could achieve a better solution. And as for the funding of the referendum activity, we agree here. The existing solution was completely liberalised, there was no control and there must be order and must be introduced, but on the other hand they cannot accept to go with such restrictions and to allow certain associations, as you yourself pointed out, are specifically trade unions, and to prohibit others who may be engaged in similar or similar activities of funding referendum promotion. Because in the case of a referendum promotion, and now in these legal decisions, we have a whole series of restrictions that go just so that money cannot be spent unconditionally and that only one who has more money can succeed in the referendums. So we fully agree and call on the Proposer once again to consider this provision which, by my court, is too restrictive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109271	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is the clue, and it is good to hear that the ruling majority club, so the leading party in the ruling majority calls on the government or the legislator to give up some of the solutions in this overall good solution, I am now talking about the government's proposal to give up. And I agree, this restriction or banning the financing of referendum promotion to certain associations, foundations, etc. and making it possible for others. In my opinion, it is not exactly from the constitutional and legal point of view sustainable, and on the other hand, of course, it would raise a huge question of the very essence of what the referendum initiatives are, which the launch of referendum initiatives means for democracy and ultimately to achieve the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree absolutely and I support and believe that on your initiative the government will give up the alternative in Article 6. In the final draft of the law and as far as I know and cannot have alternative proposals, we must decide in the final draft of the law. This alternative to taking the opportunity of independent MPs to be financed in some way is not good and that would be two steps backwards quite safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109273	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109274	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, respected colleagues, Kosor, the SDP's Club of Representatives never kept quiet if he thought there were things that could or should be improved in laws, so we're not going to do that now, especially when it comes to a proposal that is essentially one I'm not going to say, it would still be an exaggeration, because indeed, the 2011 Law and the international plan set standards under which no other countries can go. But this is one big breakthrough and we show once again that in Croatia at least in some segments we can move forward. Is this why the difficult past is about financing political activity or pressures from the EU we will not talk about, but the fact is that we have found at least one place where we can show others how things should be arranged, how things should be improved, and that is why it is our desire for this law to be better and better at all. And then the moment we finally decide on him we can all support him together and once again as it was in 2011 be proud of what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109275	The word was requested by the Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109276	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, let me try to answer three things or two that are said here. Let's first talk about the financing of independent representatives and councilors, etc. and this alternative, which I agree will not be in the final draft of the law, because according to the Rules of Procedure it cannot be in the final draft of the law. But that's why it serves the business possibility of an alternative to say things, to argue and then decide which one's better. I'll read article 6. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it speaks in paragraph 1. The establishment of political parties is free. In paragraph 2. The internal structure of political parties must be in line with the fundamental constitutional democratic principles. In paragraph 3, the parties shall take public account of the origin of their assets and assets. In paragraph 4, political parties are anti-constitutional which, through their programme or violent action, direct undermining the free democratic order or endangering the stability of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decides on the opposition. And paragraph 5. The law regulates the position and funding of political parties. This constitutional article does not mention independent MPs, council members selected from the voters' list, etc. Independent MPs also began to finance themselves by the 2004 budget since the Croatian Parliament called on the political parties until then. After that, part of the units of local self-government took over the standard and began to finance independent council members. And then by law, we cemented that they have the right to finance all who have been elected, but that is not a solution that cannot and should not be questioned. Some will say that this was done in 2004 in order to strengthen the parliamentary majority that was at first somewhat looser for various political reasons, so it was the easiest way to strengthen the political majority. Then it became an institute where everyone now swears and asks him that if he changes it would be unconstitutional that I disagree with. So, I believe that the political activities of individuals are very questionable for funding from the budget, but if, of course, the Croatian Parliament and in this debate thinks that we should be like the Government, as... and I, as minister, propose exactly the kind of solution that most in the Croatian Parliament or just plebiscitely all in the Croatian Parliament will accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that doesn't mean I can't express my opinion. I guess we've come to this level of democracy that's in the state and what's in the party. So here, that's one of the things I wanted to say. As regards the transition from party to party mandate binding, non-binding,... Well, now it matters what color it is, but it doesn't matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everyone prefers a different color. So that's a question, one question of mandate. So, MPs or councilmen are free. In the Law on Local Self-Government, we have even laid down a provision for what you say at a council meeting, and I hope that it will be in the rights of MPs because it makes no sense that local self-government councils have more rights than MPs. And that's one thing. And as for the financing of political activity, it depends on the number of votes you received from the citizens, means the financing of your campaign depends on how much donation you received, and the financing of further activities depends on how many votes you received from citizens or mandates. And we have a few combinations. So whoever entered the party's list will receive the full mandate for him, no matter how it ends, whether it ends by the end of the term of office or not. And the one who entered an independent list or a list of voters can choose whether to receive funds as an individual at all. If he chooses to receive funds, he can choose whether he wants to win on his own account as an independent agent or he will approach a political party and will receive funds for him or, together with the like-minded, he will establish a special political party, a new party he may or may not have to call his name and last name in any combination with the numbers and others and afterwards he or a group of councilmen to finance with that money the political party they establish. It's the same legitimate thing, and I think that's the solution that we went after. So, the two principles I want to say, which is that it is preferable to finance more public money transparently from a budget based on the number of votes than to depend on various donors. And secondly, my personal position is that political parties are the cornerstone of the political system and that they are the constitutional category, and individuals who make up for some of the deficits that political parties have are still complementary, not the basis of the political system. And of course I'm willing to defend that attitude and discuss it with whoever it is you need to discuss it with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109277	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109278	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, you said the funding depends on the number of mandates. So I'm going to say that I disagree with you here, I'd say that funding depends on the government of the Republic of Croatia, let's say in particular in some case, and I'm going to set an example, or some local self-government unit might be that. And you know why? Because Article 21 provides that within 7 days of the election date, that fee must be fixed for the term of office. And then in the criminal provisions, we see that only most of those who run will be punished. So now I'm asking you, as Minister, if this law will allow what happened last year? When the Government of the Republic of Croatia broke the law, when instead of seven days, it set a fee for the mandates in the EU to parliament instead of I don't know 28.03, it set 7.06 and nothing happened. And now you have inside the law also in criminal provisions a lack, no sanctions for such treatment. Well, then we can't say that the financing of political parties depends on the number of mandates won because there is evidence here that the government has arbitraryly violated the law and did not respect the basic provisions of the law and where it has reduced those fees in contrast to the election fees a year earlier after the adoption of the mandate. So I would warn you that perhaps you see this part a little bit and that in the criminal provisions you also determine that units of local self-government but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia can and must bear sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109279	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109280	Thank you. As for my statement that the funding depends on the number of mandates, perhaps I should have said to the most extent or, among other things, the number of mandates because this is no doubt a criterion to be applied. It is not the only one, so the second criterion is some political decision as much as either the government or in some case the city council sets out on the basis of a budget to finance political activities. As far as the decision on the amount of funds to compensate for election promotion costs for the European Parliament is concerned, I must say that it is not on the trail of what I said, which is that we prefer to be more financed from public funds and that, looking at that statement, I might conclude that I think the fee was low. ... So, the deadline you said was an instructional deadline, for him no sanctions were prescribed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The government has made the decision, and it seems to me that there is a Supreme Court verdict where the state cannot punish the state body to pay the state budget fine. So that wouldn't make any sense, because then the government would pay off one item, and the other item would get it in revenue. So maybe that's not the best way to say it. But that is why we have prescribed a fee for selecting candidates, or for selecting the President of the Republic to a greater extent, to a greater extent than it was for the last elections. We've suffered some criticism from the public, if you remember, even though it's on the trail of what I've been saying is more funded from public sources and less dependent on donations. But since the elections for the European Parliament were the second time in a year, maybe that was one of the reasons why the fee was slightly less than it would have been, let's just say, that year and not 2013. I wouldn't use such an expression, but yes, if a few days before then that remark of yours wouldn't have been said at all, and like this, you can say it, but the purpose was fulfilled and the parties got as much as the government had decided at that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109281	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first is colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109282	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a shame we didn't rush in the morning, but here we go. So the proposal for a law on the financing of political activities and election promotion and referendum is today's topic of this debate, and here before the elections themselves, somehow say that this law comes into force 6 months after its adoption. This is the first reading, so we have opportunities and objections and suggestions and I hope that some of them will be adopted. And I hope so, too, because the HDSSB club will be held back in this first reading, and I'll tell you the reasons why we're not ready right now. When we observe those who have been in other countries, we know that, for example, The city council of New York has seven councilmen, the city council of Chicago has nine councilmen. At the same time, our municipal and city councils have a different number of council members, and about employees who are employed, for example. One municipality in the far west of Brod-Posavina County has 25 employees and has 4.5 thousand inhabitants, the municipality has 25 and the town of Brod 100 employees. The town of Brod, which has 60,000 inhabitants, has 25 employees. So these relations are also interesting in terms of structural reforms. I think that both should be reduced as I think about our HDSSB programme, we think that we need to reform and make a new administrative administration of the Croatian state because we now have 556 units of local and regional self-government and the City of Zagreb. And when we add up all these councilors and when we add up the executive power, then we have a bulky and excessive administration, red tape and all that we have to pay for, and of course it all goes through election or political party financing that appears to elections or independent lists or a list of groups of citizens, a group of voters whatever they call it. The money that stands out on that occasion we talked about would be some kind of restriction, a restrictions on 50 million kuna. Before someone counted here the years of this past in which up to 60, 61 million kuna was singled out, but what we can therefore talk about, but what is most important here is what is most important is contained in Article 5i in Article 6. In fact, Article 5 gives an alternative that says "The right to regular annual funding from the state budget has political parties that have won the seat in the Croatian Parliament and independent representatives". I think we should also stop at paragraph 1 and delete paragraph 2 by supplementing item 1 not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, this should be added. And in paragraph 2, it is a very interesting formulation, of course it writes here an alternative that offers political corruption, which is that members of the representative body chosen from the list of a group of voters, exercise the right to compensation if so decided by the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. This means that the majority party or group of parties of the coalition decides on compensation for voters selected from the voter group list, decides on the possibility of compensation. Is that right? I don't think so. So the majority in the representative body is forcing those selected from the voters' list not to win the prize, they can disable that award. That's what it says in this paragraph 2 and I think that's why this item is unfair and it needs to be deleted. That's my position and our position, the HDSSB's position. In addition, Article 6 and paragraph 2 and Article 4 shall speak of whether an independent so-called ‘independent’ so-called ‘independent’. a council member or representative becomes a member of a party and then a fee for action exists or enters into that party's membership. And if someone from the party becomes independent, then they can't bring that cash they get when an independent enters the party, then the money goes to the party, when the party comes out as an independent again, the money remains a party. So these are elements that are actually slightly supported by the partytocracy that has already been talked about here and the partytocratic system that is ruling. We forgot to say, many of us, that for the first time in these next parliamentary elections we also have a preferential vote. So there is also a preferential voice that citizens unfortunately only one, we have advocated to be three, and even all of them to be preferential voices, which would actually give us the fuller democratic scope of this House and then the MPs would answer to the citizens rather than the leaders of political parties who could compare the list however they wanted. You can put whatever you want on the list. And that's what brings these results to this country and to our people after 25 years, which is that so-called. Bipolar partocracy of the Republic of Croatia. It is fully evident in view of these provisions in this law and the proposal legally to try to break in some way, prevent or at least slightly harm the lists that will appear in the elections, completely certain and so does the minister and we all know, the lists of groups of voters, that is, independent and this strong list, which will certainly win the mandates in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sure of it. From this, I will not say fear, but out of the precaution that such a large group does not appear we have these forms of compensation for the work of parties or independent lists, therefore, in the case of crossings. So this legal proposal is, in fact, such that, let me say, suppress the a little bit of the will of those who will go to elections in the list of non-partisans. We all got it so I believe and the ministry received comments from both the associations and the GONG and other associations which have written some other comments, which is therefore comments regarding the financing of the referendum promotion. The referendum, which is the highest degree of democracy, I believe, and so I think and remain in it, is prohibited, conducting a referendum, forbidden to carry out a referendum of associations, foundations and foundations, so as to initiate the referendum. This article 157 of this legislative proposal, in which it writes, pardon Article 57 of this legislative proposal, was opened and opened, saying that it prohibits the financing of referendum activities and referendum promotions by associations, foundations and foundations. He says except for the workers' and employers' associations. If this is the Croatian Employers' Association, it is not clear to me that it is allowed and some GONG or I do not know any other association that has a broad consensus and even a good amount of money from the state budget is given, there are almost a thousand of them to be banned, in these associations are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So who is it? It's an association, so who makes an association rather than a citizen? So I don't understand that formula. Furthermore, the funding of referendum activities is prohibited from religious communities and humanitarian organisations. It also lists the units of local and regional self-government, and these are probably the stands that the city of Zagreb gave to the Initiative on behalf of the family, so I guess that's also forbidden. And then unnamed or anonymous sources. The referendum, we know the rules, I don't know if we still know the final figures as much as we need votes to carry out, but I would add to this legal, maybe it doesn't belong to that matter, but I would add that the referendum can only be implemented after the constitutional court's previously verified question. Because what happened to the last two or three referendums? The referendum was carried out and then we advocates a question that was referred to the Constitutional Court for consideration. The Constitutional Court said the issue was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and bit the donkey wolf. That is why I think that the initiative for the referendum, perhaps if it were already set up in the last three cases to ask this issue to the Constitutional Court in advance, the preliminary issue to the Constitutional Court, and then to launch a referendum initiative, i.e. the signing and financing of such an initiative, in accordance with the law. That's why it's not clear to me that here it is, that associations are therefore forbidden to finance the referendum even though associations also live on donations, something from telling money from the state that is given to associations. So I don't think that's right. Furthermore, there are still such interesting articles that I said the HDSSB would be restrained. Here is the article of the 10th, and I think my colleague Tyrelli spoke of it, the exceptions, to the provision of paragraph 1 so the return of money to the state budget unless it was spent. Well, then he says extremely much of it. It is true and well said that these exceptions should be clearly numbered, saying which are the exceptions under which they are withdrawn from paragraph 1 of subparagraph 2 of this Article, Article 10 of this Law. I hope that some of these remarks will be adopted, but I hope that, at last, although the Kukurik coalition has given up the administrative administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia as a major task, such as some fears or fears, even though the opposition does not agree in the majority, given that there are relatively large numbers of mayors, mayors, mayors and also do not fit with regard to the syncures that belong to them both in the representative body and in the executive authority. And there is simply one agreement between the ruling, and also on this side, counterpart Klaric may be angry, but there is one consensus that the administrative and administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia is not going. And we reduced the number and municipalities, and thus those in the executive government, as Col. Milinkovic here said to the sheriffs of some, but also those in representative bodies. It would be cheaper, and probably more efficient, both state and regional and local self-government. Unfortunately, there is still no such thing, and here we are before the second reading of this legislative proposal, so we will see what Minister Bauk and his deputies and assistants will solve and what they will tell us everything we say and we will see in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109284	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Here you go, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. I thought I'd start by sort of correcting it, criticising my colleague Grubisic, even though it seems to me that in the debate on one law and one topic we are discussing other issues. I, of course, thought to refer him to the fact that administrative reform is something we will be discussing for some time, with the Administration Reform Strategy, the territorial administration, we really need to change in Croatia. But of course, we need to keep in mind that comparisons with other countries are extremely problematic. The number of councilors in Chicago or New York corresponds to actually a very different way of profiling that body and choice. I advocate, probably those for a reform that would lead to simpler and cheaper costs for democratic decision-making. But not to spend my time on it, I actually volunteered to support his position, which explains how independent representatives at various levels, and it is also visible in the Parliament, are actually some kind of source of income to political parties. Look how much the Assembly's composition has changed, how many clubs we have now. Well, they were MPs who actually gave political parties certain opportunities, rights, revenues. Isn't it the state's interest to promote political action, not political parties? That's why I think your suggestions are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109286	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109287	Thank you very much. Comrade Craiger, here's your support. I'll back someone else up. It seems to me that in the beginning, this is the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we had 8 or 9 club representatives, now we have 13. That's what you said in the end about us dispersing from parties to more independent and I don't know what kind of clubs. A new wave, and I don't know what kind of clubs aren't there, what's-his-name, a new wave, something like that. And as for the administrative and administrative reconstruction, given the bipolarity of this partytocracy, there is one song that says "in the year 2525", that will be at that time, that year when it will finally come to someone to bring down the state administration and local and regional self-government to one level that this people with this GDP and this budget will be able to endure. This expensive country can't have either much, much more developed countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109288	Thank you. Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109289	You're telling your colleague that it seems to you that this bill in some way leads to the government being afraid of the godless independents who will surely win a significant number of mandates for you, so there are certain norms that are also corrupt. It should be openly said that all political parties and all individuals and groups who want to go to the political scene, who want to go to the public race, are given equal opportunity. And in a way to reduce even funding or the possibility of how much someone can get and use for the campaign goes in favor of the smaller ones and which are not yet affirmed. I mean, you don't think, I think you agree with me, and we had such an initiative, which was called, let's pick out representatives by name and last name, which is fine. We have in one way accepted that one MP is chosen in such a way. But what was in that proposal, and they know it wasn't popular, they didn't call it their referendum, was a provision to enter parliament with 2% or 3%. I believe you disagree, but I'll hear your answer well. You also believe that if all candidates for the Parliament were to be chosen by a preferential vote so that people could say that to the citizens only they correspond, and you forget to tell who puts those people on those lists. Therefore, the party bodies, the highest parties' bodies, and exactly whose statutes or statutes of the parties do so are known. But whoever's first and who's 12 is certainly the one who put it almost anyway, along with so many numerical positions within the party. So let's not exactly say that's what you say. After all, the minister has already said that, we, with this bill, affirm both political parties and politicians and encourage people to deal with politics as an honorable business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109290	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109291	My colleague Ingrid, so when it was an initiative to make three percent the electoral threshold, then you forgot to say something. And this is that then the whole of Croatia should be one electoral unit, so the threshold should be 3%. And that's quite different than, say, a lot of people are complaining and suing that HDSSB has six or seven MPs for now, and that HSLS won more votes in Croatia than HDSSB. No one says the HDSSB went to only two constituency units, fourth and fifth, and HSLS in all of Croatia is not, there are none in the Croatian Parliament, and it had 2,000 votes more than the HDSSB, which won 6 seats in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, when you talk about the independent, it is true that this initiative is an independent that is being led and that is very currently prevented by this very alternative in Article 5(2), so it says this, I will read to you, you may not have read it. "The right to regular annual funding from the budget of units of local and regional self-government have political parties that have won the position of members in the representative body, and members selected from the list of voting groups exercise that right if so decided by the representative body." Which means, but exactly what I said and that's an item that I didn't expect to be such an item 2 in the legal proposal at all, amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109292	Thank you. Gordana Sobol, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I would just like to replicate in one section about the possibility of associations being and who will have the right to finance, to participate in the financing of referendum issues. I agree in part that in these provisions, this proposal should make certain changes. I hope that the legislator will come up with the right solution. However, I agree that associations should be able to participate in the financing of the referendum in some way, but with strict restrictions. In fact, associations are funded in different ways. A good part of them is financed from the funds of the local budget and the state budget for exactly certain programmes and projects they are going with, let me put it this way to some competitions to get budgets. And I don't think it's really right, it wouldn't be right, then let's say some association that gets the funds so that I don't know the asylum for abandoned animals, that the funds are used to finance a referendum on a whole-tenth question that is possibly being implemented in the area of that one local unit or at the state level. So, I agree with the fact that some things here may need to be changed, but I think we need to find ways to prevent, by means of, so that associations finance, from participating in the financing of a referendum, from actually spending directly on the funds that are being received from essentially this formulated, let me put it this way, unauthorized sources of funding. Therefore, in this part, it should be found if there is any possible balance and the possibility of control both in any way and in what way, and for which these associations, the funds will be used because the funds are obtained for purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109294	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109295	Thank you very much. Comrade Sobol, you have somewhat supported me as I understand it, but this legal proposal is exclusive. He doesn't allow any association. If we already have, here's the association on behalf of the family, and the question was about what marriage is, so the community of men and women. Is the Family Family Association directly interested in that question? Well, it's actually the meaning of her existence, so the Family Law and things of the Family Law. Therefore, who will ban it, why should they ban the family's association "In the name of the family" from potentially helping and financing such a referendum initiative, so when it is part of it that it is actually, which it encourages and advocates. So we can't rule out all the associations. After all, it could be a referendum local exactly on animal protection. And you're saying now that the Association of Asylum of Domestic Animals can't participate. So he can participate, and he even gets the means to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109296	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109297	Thank you. Yes, you spoke of this share to finance political parties from the budget of 0.08% but to a maximum of up to 50 million kuna a year. I'm not a supporter of such solutions that define something in percent, and then establish some limit over which you actually don't realize that percentage not only when there's a word here. That's one case, I think, which is rare by the way. For example, we have pensions, pensions are accounted for but to some extent, even if you have achieved a higher amount of pension, you are limited by some maximum amount. That's the kind of pain case we've got. You have the right to not know 80 percent of the other six months but to some amount. I think it's some kind of Croatian wetland where it actually defines something but then ends up with some amount that's what it is here. So let us determine how much the Croatian budget can bear in its consumption and over, and not some percentage but some amount. I find this model that is applicable in Croatia in different areas to be stupid and I would never use it. Let's define our financial capacities, set some standards and stick to them, and let's not define that by any absolute numbers like that here in this case. And second, when it comes to the article 57, you mentioned associations. I will mention religious communities and ask why the Atlantic Group has the right to finance referendum activities, and for example the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Catholic Church or the Jewish municipality of Zagreb do not have. So we deny them the right. If they have funds, if they have interests, some legitimate goals why can't they finance some referendum activity. I don't see what the problem is. So why can a company do that, for example, and religious communities can't? I do not see exactly what the legislator was aiming at because there are only a few sentences in which this article is explained at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109298	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109299	Yes, it's an interesting finding, so it's said and here it says 0.08%, but then the limit of 50 million kuna and you've cited a few examples, and so do I. For example, to encourage up to 9000 kuna does not cause problems but if it has 9001 kuna incentivise for agriculture then it enters that tax system and into the tax mill, so the rest of HZZO, supplementary insurance, etc. are paid. So it's similar but let's compare. So we might also have some Nobel laureates undiscovered here that should really be rewarded by these solutions that limit these things to 50 million kuna and 0.88% can be a different amount. You mentioned well other than associations, so both churches and Atlantic groups, which are also in a position I don't know which but here in Article 57, it says that neither the religious communities can participate, religious communities nor humanitarian organisations can participate in the financing of the referendum. And here's some of the companies, companies have total freedom to do that. So I think we agree completely, vaguely, is actually the intention of this article 57, I don't know what it's really about, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109300	Thank you. Nadica Jelish, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109301	You spoke to your colleague Grubisic about partocracies, i.e. that there is also a previous law, which, which is the draft law we are discussing today, is being financed by political parties and not by MPs. And that the moment when a representative is either disappointed with the programme or generally by the political party's general functioning, he leaves it and stays either on his own or moves on to another political party so that the financial resources remain with that of his previous political party. You also touched on the discussion of colleagues Vuksic and colleagues Vuljanic on the same topic because they also expressed some dissatisfaction about such funding. However, I will tell you that for me it is acceptable, logical and understandable for one simple reason. So they were all, in particular, co-workers Vuksic and Vuljanic, so they were chosen from the party's list. So party labor, party laborers. If the party hadn't put them on the list, they wouldn't be able to be elected at all. So why didn't they go as independent, as independent candidates and try their strength like that, and not within and through the party. So, for me, it's totally acceptable and logical to model this kind of financing of a political party, not a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109302	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109303	Well, thank you very much, colleague Jelash, that's great, you've promoted the matter too much. But you did not set another example, therefore the opposite. When someone is elected as an independent for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and wishes to go to the HDZ, then his fee belongs to the HDZ, and although he has financed himself for both the campaign and everything. This is the case in Article 6(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Take a look at what it says, and you'll see. And besides, I have a very different example that's been solved, I don't know if by the old law or by this new one when one of our members was elected from the HDSSB list to the County Assembly, but before the constitution of that assembly, he resigned from the HDSSB membership. You know who that fee came to? Not HDSSB, him. We were suing, we were pushing, we were going, there was the State Office, there was no Ministry, but unfortunately we didn't achieve anything. So, vague formulations lead to this sort of thing. But in the article, please read in detail Article 6(2) and paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109304	Thank you. Minister Arsen Bauk called for his word, please welcome Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109305	Thank you. Let's get out of here. In one of the previous discussions on this law, you mentioned this example of the councilman who crossed over, and that is why this proposal says that from the moment the final results of the elections were announced, not from the moment of the constitution. Although I could remember in 2005, in the election of the mayor of Osijek, that there were opposite crossings so that it wasn't too much, they then went to the Independent List of Branimir Glavas, and not to the then candidate Kramaric, and then the same can be mentioned. All right. So, as far as this case of crossing an independent into a political party is concerned, in 2005, I mentioned the elections in the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, the Independent List of Branimir Glavas, and during that term, the party was formed, first of all, the association, and then the HDSSB party and me logically that if these council members, several of them, enter the party and the funds from the budget if they really want to belong to that political party. That goes for someone else. As far as the independents are concerned, I still have something to say. The constitution knows political parties, not individuals who act politically and we base... Now I'm just changing the Constitution because I'm not sure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are based on these provisions of the Constitution and we are passing this law. Indeed, it could be asked whether they are independent but it doesn't matter. But these independent ones you mentioned for the Parliament, so none of those you think are independent of you, but none of them. The one from Zagreb founded the party, the one from Primosten founded the party, the one from Metkovic founded the party and many others founded the party. They're not independent of you, they're all members or party presidents so you won't be independent. I am very confident that there will be no MPs selected from the independent lists in the next assembly of parliaments. In this assembly, we have two MPs, one of whom remained independent and the other joined one political party, which was founded in the meantime, and the one who remained independent of the entire campaign was under the auspices of the Association "the Alliance for Something and Something else". So it's also very questionable how independent it is. As far as this bipolarity is concerned, it's not bipolarity, it's 13th-stolarity, because the coalition is two of the strongest parties currently in Croatia, so this will not be bipolarity and I have to admit that this mystery of Croatian bipolarity is still unclear to me, I understand why they vote for us but I don't know why they're voting for these others, but it doesn't matter, and I guess I'll make that clear to myself sometime. You know what the biggest problem is with small parties? Being small, that's their biggest problem. So we can't adapt laws to those who have slightly less support for citizens, and that's why this law when we talk about elections makes sense to me. So the parties that are strong at national level and the parties that are strong at regional level pass well and the worse the parties that are there somewhere between 3% and 7% of them get something less proportionate. Under the political system, such parties agree to coalitions with larger parties and are again paid off because they relatively get a little more votes from MPs than they would get to go alone, and this is worth it to these big parties because they get a little more votes because to lose half the other party would. So this is actually quite well set up for you and I don't see any reason for any major changes in that regard. And as for the sentence on political corruption here, I'm using the opportunity, so probably, I can see that you've picked up a replica, which is actually political corruption in alternative to paragraph 5, so in response to the replica, I'm going to refer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109306	Thank you, too. Cresimir Bubalo Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109307	Thank you very much. We must act alone because in 2005, we went to the elections as an independent list of Branimir Glavas and mixed all political options in the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. But what I'm saying is that you were just talking about some crossings in the city of Osijek in 2005 that's not true. The independent list of Branimir Glavas together with HSP and the Croatian Pensions Party formed the majority in the City of Osijek. Therefore, that information is not correct. But I think you're more bothered by these Sunday elections where the SDP combined with HSU and SU in the south-town district of South 2 got a big 7.81%. Therefore, your HDZ and SDP coalition in the City of Osijek is visible. But it's your only chance to rule in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109308	Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109309	I think the gentleman's name was Ibrix and that he moved to the county, that he was the president of the HSS of Osijek-Baranja County. Did I just say that? So it wasn't exactly that it wasn't. And besides that, by the last day, there was no telling who you would vote for from HSU, even Kramaric's rosary prayed at that constitutive session, if I remember correctly. No, this is in Osijek, this is in the county. Well, you went out with each other. I mean, people get two ballots, so they vote. As for the results in one city district, if I read well, then our third coalition partner did well, which means that the left constituency still rewarded why now for HNS and not SDP, HSU. Maybe it's about some of the staff reasons that can happen. And in some other cities, it has happened that people have also voted for someone at national level who still has a slightly weaker rating, at least that's what polls say not to get angry now, but at the local level, they have people who can get even half the majority as in Zelina or as in Dubrovnik. So, it's not some, I wouldn't make a big national policy out of a local committee. But the scene in Osijek is always interesting. First, when Kramaric was elected, and then the SDP and HDZ were expensive, so now that the vote for Vrkic is now on the same side, Djapic, SDP and HDZ. When it was on the other hand, when you were in power, some of the left parties supported you, it seems to me that you were with the HNS in the pre-election coalition. So maybe Osijek isn't the best place to analyze these bipolarities, and that's one particular topic. Of course, it is better not to take Osijek as an example. There is not as much bipolarity as Mr Grubisic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109310	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109311	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, there is, when you remember 2005 so lively and alive, there is a saying in Bosnia saying "From the tower of the ban and the good day". But you wouldn't want to talk about it other than that your Deputy Prime Minister was in a coalition with the HDSSB when let's say he believed in HDSBB and when he was, and we in it, now we've lost our trust more. You trust HDZ now or I don't know what's happening to you. So when you talk about large and small parties, we remain in the position of David in a Bible story that fights not against one but against two Goliaths. You think of yourself as a big party as these. So we're gonna stay in that fight anyway. So we're not going to go into either the left so-called or the so-called right because it doesn't really know who's left and who's right. But while we're talking about independents, you have in Brod, so the Law Association, so with Mayor Duspar, who went to both the previous elections and the County Assembly, is like in front of a group of voters, there are six council members in the County Assembly, and they will go to the election for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Association of Rights. Therefore, do not put everyone into parties and Boža Petrova and Kovačić in Omis, etc. There will certainly be a list of groups of citizens and groups of voters who will certainly or very likely enter the Croatian Parliament. Now that you're talking about Article 5, where there's a possibility of corruption. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Why does that even have to stand? So it belongs to him as well as to any party that holds a mandate in the units of regional and regional self-government. I don't get it. Why should the County Assembly vote on funds from a budget to be received by representatives of a group of citizens or an independent list.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109312	Thank you. Time. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Excuse me. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109313	I can say that if I were to actually look at the history of HDSSB's creation, I could agree with you that you shouldn't be left or right. Let's say Mr. Vinkovic came from the SDP, Mr. Bubalo HDZ, you from the HSS, probably has someone who came from other parties, which is why it used to be called the socialist alliance of the working people, now would probably be called the Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, therefore you can't really put it on the left and right. ... This is historically known, these are various stages of the development of the former party. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That goes for other parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109314	I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues and your ministers please stick to the topic of debate. It is not always necessary to respond to replicas in such a way. Set up the ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109315	Okay. As far as Article 5 is concerned, and the alternative is not an alternative by accident, and it is good to discuss and in one address before about 1 and 15 I have actually explained what this is about. So by 2004, there was no financing of independent lists and independent candidates from the council's budget, but it came to... In 2004, it is now approached as if it were the foundation of the constitutional order that independents must receive money. They do not have to, it is the decision of the Croatian Parliament or at the level of the city and the municipality can be the decision of the representative body. But I see that because of social hygiene, I see that this provision will be an alternative, and I have no problem with it, so you can be calm. So probably your reasons for abstention in the second reading will be somewhat smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109316	Thank you. You can't rephrase your colleague Grubisic. Thank you. Next replica Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109317	Dear Mr. Minister, one of the previous debates you have read well what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says, there are parties mentioned, and no independent lists are mentioned. And this whole morning, we've been running through independent lists, and we all know exactly what this is about. In Croatia 158 as many parties as we have now before this election we will see how many new parties will be established and what this leads to. Perhaps the most ideal thing would be to think that the electoral threshold would be 10% or more, and to ban pre-election coalitions, and then maybe solve this problem with so much party excitement. But definitely, and that's what's already been said, and my colleague mentioned it here and I mentioned it in the previous debate. The crossings from the parties after entering the Assembly of the Municipal or City Council simply... an individual who would never succeed in that part to enter such a position that he went alone with his list. If he wants to be some kind of independent, and you said that in 2004, they were allowed to go as independent but to go from the beginning and then he'd get those funds and no one would deny them in that part. We who have field experience well know what independent lists are in city and municipal councils. It's a nice name when someone says they're independent, none of them are independent we know it well. When one vote is asked for more then a position is sought, and all 14 of them are already on the list for the next four years off-drive and do not work and there is no question of where these funds go and check how few of them have submitted such reports where they have spent these funds from municipal and city budgets. What are we talking about? I mean independents don't exist, they're highly dependent, and then unfortunately both municipal and city councils depend on them to have a majority in one or two such votes. The money belongs to a party, a political organisation that pays a membership fee that has its own hierarchy and which is politically acting not one, two, three, but for many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109318	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109319	I am very tempted not to show excessive agreement with your position, but from the reaction of the MPs from this side of the assembly in the middle, I see that they basically support your position on the foundations of the political system, so in that sense I hope that the presentation of your club will also be able to see the agreement with these proposals that the government has proposed so that here I look forward to a debate which is the next Mr. Mlakar and Mr. Shucker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109320	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109321	Thank you. Ministers are impressed with your satisfaction with the Croatian political system, and since you have beautifully elaborated it, the large, small, all of this is finely coherent, the only problem that is from such a coherent political system has not been brought about by a quality society or a quality economy, nor has some of the results that Croatian citizens expect from us. So we can be content with ourselves or parties with us or us with parties or all together with how convenient it is for all of us. But I don't think Croatian citizens are satisfied with that. And it is in the political system that many warn that there is a root of the problems in which Croatian society is present and that without resolving relations in this political system, Croatian society will hardly change in the way that Croatian citizens actually wish and want it, they want to change in the future. So I wouldn't share that pleasure and such an easy attitude towards that condition. However, when we think of only a number of officials and also political parties and all those who, with this poor Croatian judiciary today, have not been prosecuted, not counting many of those who have actually escaped from this political system would not share your satisfaction with the Croatian political system, the way it is done and that this solution is actually satisfying neither the Croatian future nor the interests of the Croatian state in the years to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109322	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109323	I wouldn't call it a pleasure, but there is a certain amount of my volunteering towards the current political system. So as the prime minister said in a single statement last week that speaking of President Tudjman and Marshal Tito, they were the leaders they were and that we don't have any better ones, that's worth it to you for the political parties. So they are, as we have no better ones and the question is how to measure how good the political party and the individual is. This is said to be the number of votes received although it can be very misleading because one of the esteemed Croatian politicians from all sides, say Vlado Gotovina has never managed to get a two-digit number of votes in the elections and, very, very little has been won and after he died, all of course took it very often as an example. It happened to our first president of our party who was also while he was active in politics, after... The mandate of the three years was criticised more than when he was Prime Minister and then when he got sick, he suddenly became an icon of the political system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, unfortunately, when the elections are then you can't choose four years back but four years in advance. So there are two people's sayings, one is that every nation has the authority it deserves and the other is something, it's not really a pay phone, so I'm going to have to rephrase it, and that's that after the vote, there's no regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109324	Thank you. Davorin Mlakar and Ivan Shuker will debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and to say that you do not support this law was such a political suicide. You do not support such a law, and you have to make valid arguments why, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will say why we do not support such a law. We will not talk about individual examples from our rich democratic past and election we will talk about the essential issues of this law. I'd call it Orvell law and I'll try to explain to you as soon as possible why. The proposer says the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is free to establish political parties. The internal structure of political parties must be consistent with the fundamental constitutional, democratic principles. The parties shall take public account of the origin of their assets and assets. Political parties are anti-constitutional which, through their programme or violent action, direct undermining the free democratic order or endanger the stability of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decides on the opposition. The law regulates the position and funding of political parties, and I suppose that's what the Proposer meant when she brought this opening statement on the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. However, it suffers from a major problem, nowhere on this constitutional basis has there been a talk on regulating the funding of the referendum. And this law in relation to the previous law that you have now changed fundamentally or if you want to formally in one article and one article in particular. The new law offered by the government is prescribed by the earlier Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion. By contrast, in Article 1(4), the introduction and resolution of the matter of referendums, Article 2 refers to gender equality which the previous law did not have and in all other things this law is essentially identical to earlier than the financing and control of the referenda financing. And that's the only difference, a serious difference from the previous law. Two minor changes are that you have increased the funds for election promotion and reduced the fines and this leads us to what we say is an Orvell law because it is not due to the constitutional basis nor the idea to pass this law, but the big brother said two years ago the law is bad and we will change it. The law was bad because the ruling SDP party was obliged to pay some more than 5 million kuna fines for the delay in reporting on its financing of its political activities because of the delay in the report. Then you said, and that is to be very precise, on 9 April 2013, we must respect the laws, regardless of how bad they were, as Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic says. So the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System makes a decision on the loss of the right to regular annual funding from the state budget of the SDP of Croatia because you are reportedly late due to the disease of the persons in accounting with the regular reporting of the State Election Commission and are therefore punished. However, very interestingly, only a year later, on 28 May 2014, this same committee makes a decision to repay the funds for regular annual funding from the state budget, so these 5 million kunas that have been taken from you are returning. At the same time, at the same session, a decision is made again because the SDP is again late in reporting, again punishing the Constitution Committee, the same party, but this time not with 5 million but with over 600,000 kunas for being late again. I guess it was an objective disease problem back then, so you didn't file your report in time. Now these were the events that the Prime Minister said would change this law. The second reason why this law is changed is no longer called as so far but is called the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, which you easily identify this referendum with elections and all the mechanisms of monitoring the financing of elections are now being revised in the referendum, and this is not the same thing and it is important that referendums are held from the way the elections are held. So the second reason is that you have received several referendums in response to this excessive policy led by the Croatian Government, so you are now except in the referendum law where you want to propose a whole series of topics on which the referendum cannot be called, now you want to make it difficult for the organisers to hold a referendum. Because what is an expression of the democratic will of citizens must be included in very strict funding and funding control measures to monitor the financing of political parties. I will repeat once again, funding political parties, financing elections and funding referendums are very different things. To identify the referendum with the elections shows that you do not understand the essence of democracy. In view of this, and what he's going to add to my colleague Shucker on behalf of the club, I can say that we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So today expecting a very euphoric debate from the SDP club about this law because I was really interested in what is going to be said today about Article 20, because a month ago someone persistently wanted to convince the Croatian public that the newly elected president of the Republic of Croatia had avoided paying the tax. If that's true what they were saying then it was to expect today in the debate on behalf of the SDP club to confirm it, and apparently it wasn't true but that it was only an immediate attack for these or those reasons. However, we also expected the Government to give an amendment to the proposal of Article 20 and to define more clearly in the principle of which all the funds belong. Because if the law has the right to compensation for election promotion costs, then the question is how can it be taxable, how can it be costs if you make up for someone's election promotion costs how can it be taxable? However, this debate today showed the same face and face of our policy. Today, there was a debate here the way it stings. It turns out that in principle, as far as financing political parties SDP and HDZ are concerned, they think in a similar way, while everyone else would like to win money one way or another. So that's what this law should clearly define. If someone has been selected from a list, regardless of whether it is from the lowest level of the municipality to the assembly, then the money belongs to that list on which someone entered the Assembly. If someone went as an independent to the elections he is based on this law has the right to compensation and I think that this is something that should have been further clarified, even better strengthened and what is most important, in this forest when certain financial deadlines expire and should have been clearly defined. Even these fees paid after the official election reports were also to be defined as belonging to who for the simple reason that no more what happened to the newly elected president when the SDP club used some other political things that did not go to the election at the time, the Croatian public entertained for several days, assuring that Mrs Grabar Kitarovic had avoided paying the tax. And I don't want to be her lawyer today, but I want to be the lawyer of all those who are going to find themselves in the situation that she's in, that someone is politically using something and it's something called political irresponsibility. It seems that in Croatia, he can say whatever he wants, he can attack whoever he wants and for what he wants, that there is no standoff in the law, and when it is proven not to be so, so wait, I expected today from my colleague, Peja Grbina, at the very least, an apology. He spoke on behalf of the SDP club today, so it was a logical thing that he said today here you see colleagues and colleagues, according to article 20, someone was obliged to pay taxes, but I didn't hear it. If it wasn't for that, then it was logical for someone to apologize. So much for this famous article 20, and I think, Mr. Minister, that we should, as far as compensation belongs to someone after winning some percentage of votes, clearly define where these funds are being paid, and that those funds are not, no one can personally receive them, spend them as the other representative candidate did, covered some expenses, the other wanted to donate to the party, so the party did not accept it. I don't think we should allow such a simple thing in the law. It must be clearly defined to which jury account these funds are paid and to which they belong. Because if it says in the law that it's compensation for election campaign costs, then I don't think there's a debate about whether or not someone will. And this law needs to be clearly defined for the reason that this is not happening. And I'm gonna finish what my colleague Mlakar was saying. What's this circus about funding a referendum? Well, simply with this law, it is now being defended in Croatia to launch a referendum. I return to that Labour Act, 7 months 2010, and the question arises how much we all paid together for not changing that article of the law and one government and this government that has been ruling for the past three and a half years. In the end, if you look at the proposal for measures that the European Commission has today sent in Croatia, one major part of these measures refers precisely to that article of the Labour Act that we then asked to change from 2010. But look, according to this bill, no one will ever fall into the minds of holding a referendum because a referendum needs both human and material logistics. And if this is how you limit all those who would eventually help finance the referendum, then simply the referendum will no longer be in the future. But good luck and someone's out of time, so I guess some things are finally gonna work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109327	We have a presentation of colleagues Davorin Mlakar, Josip Boric relic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109328	Dear fellow, you said in your debate that famous sentence, "The law is a corpse, we will change it." It wasn't exactly like that, the prime minister said exactly like this: "We'll pay the fine and change the law." Now, since they used the constituency board for you and foreordained here not to pay the fine. We don't know if those two fines have ever been paid, but here's the law. He's in first reading now, he'll probably be here by the end of his term. Maybe he painted this policy best, Mr. Komadin, i.e. the situation in the SDP when he recently said membership was abandoned and politics was inconsistencies. Simply and this law is an example of this, because as I say we can even interpret all those locks that the minister of the administration had worked on, say, a referendum that the "In the Name of the Family" association wanted, and it was about choosing representatives by name and last name, when in several attempts he tried to hit the exact number of voters in order to get the required 10% signatures and failed. And within just a few days or months, that number fell incredible. First, I don't know 420,000, then 400,000, and then the election comes out, i.e. The election comes to the president and we suddenly find out that we have 3 million and 770,000 voters. And what if that association were to think and complain to whom and what would it do? So they used all the possibilities of manipulation to stop one such referendum, and then I say they change the laws that they think it's a party similar to them and that we're getting into this situation so there's almost nothing we can agree on and we can sort out this democracy as a people, i.e. The citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109329	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Mlakar. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109330	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, you said what I only mentioned in the speech. The great brother, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, decided that we would amend the law because he was not eligible for penalties which were imposed for violations of the act as set out in the law, and were given by his page. However, regardless of the fact that later this article of the law under which they were suspended, they freed themselves from paying the fine by extracting themselves to something completely different. The objection was that no one could be a judge in their own affairs, so that the Constitutional Committee with members of political parties could not judge those same parties, and there was no question just whether the appropriate or excessive punishment that SDP had to pay was too high. At a session where the obligation to pay these 5 million kunas was released at the same time was re-dealed, but for a much smaller amount because they again made the same mistake and were late for health reasons to submit reports on time. We're talking about motives. If that were not the case, and had it not been for a referendum that was valid as a legitimate civil dissatisfaction with this policy, we would not have changed this law, because this law is identical to the former, except that it has strong provisions to regulate the financing of the referendum, because the ruling referendums do not respond. They have already proposed that everything be excluded from voting in the referendum, and now there will be also a need to monitor financing as well as for political parties. In other words, the referendum while they rule will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109331	Thank you. Minister Arsen Bauk called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109332	So, as far as Article 6 is concerned, The constitution somewhere in the morning debate I read it too, I see we have the same inspiration that's not bad. So, as far as the observation that it's been prescribed by the past law, that's true. As a rule, he's been passed the law. In fact, when we did consultation with the interested public you can see on the pages of the Ministry of Administration this law went in the form of a law amending and supplementing the law on financing, the applicable law, and then there was an observation that a large number of provisions had been amended, that it had already adopted several amendments and that it would be good to write a new law. And then we wrote a new law. So that's exactly what you said that he's relying on this law. As for the statement that the law is bad, we'll change it. That statement has already been fulfilled in one amended form, which is that we have not changed the law but, by repealing Article 42 of the current law, changed it by the Constitutional Court. So this sentence that the law was bad was mildly spoken, should have been written that the law was unconstitutional. This proved to be the case, and when this was confirmed in the Constitutional Court, then the committee responsible for the Constitution was not a punishment but rather a denial of something that would otherwise be obtained with the financing of political parties, but not just us, but another number of parties and independent representatives. As for statements on several referendums, only one referendum was held. And the referendum held again was a moment of general agreement between the two main parties that the issue does not have to go to the Constitutional Court because it is constitutional. So you remember that, there was a proposal for some to review constitutionality in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the absolute merit of the ruling majority is supported by and the strongest opposition parties for tactical reasons to hold the referendum. And after that were collected signatures for another three referendums, of which 2 of which the Constitutional Court did not allow because the issues were not constitutional, and the third did not get enough signatures and did not go to the Constitutional Court. And yet another consensus has been reached for that third party by two of the largest political parties about not having to call it. So I don't understand why you're against this law if in all these essential elements you agree with us. But well, that's your political tactics. As far as taxation costs are concerned. So we can't give an amendment to the law that's in the first reading, but it can really be prescribed in the second reading. There are two variations to Article 20. One is that it is a real compensation for the cost of election promotion and that no more money can be paid than you have reported the cost of election promotion. It's a possible variant. Because the way it's set up now it's a reward for getting votes. It is formally called post-election costs of election promotion, but it is indeed a reward for the votes it has received. So, you can spend 20 thousand kuna in the campaign, and get for the cost of promotion 50 thousand kuna. These 30,000 kuna differences are not the cost of promiscation because you didn't even have them. That can be prescribed. Or it can be said that it is not tax-paying and then just to say that it is considered a kind of additional income of an individual if it is an individual as a candidate, but, of course, it is both legal and in spirit and in the letter of law, it is that the cost of election promotion is returned to the political party who has borne the most of the costs of that promotion. And then it's up to the political party to decide what to do with it. And my objection was not in the sense of the law but in the sense that the function of the president should no longer be after the money is left to the parties to suggest how to treat them rather than the party acting in accordance with the decisions of the party bodies. And as for the locksmith that the minister of the administration did what you said the number of signatures was my biggest mistake listening to my predecessor, so like him and the one before him, I included in the total number of voters the diaspora voters. It's my biggest mistake and I believe that I will make that mistake, that my predecessors will forgive me and I won't listen as much as I've listened to them that time. Otherwise, I will conclude, a referendum has been announced today and it will take about 380 thousand signatures as it entered into force on 29 December 2014 in the provisions of the Housing Act which allowed for further reduction of the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia to 3 million and 800 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109333	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109334	Dear Mr. Minister, where I'm lucky you wanted to listen to me, but it seems to me that you've chosen the wrong time and the wrong tactics. What you didn't understand in 8 minutes is I'll hardly be able to explain to you in 2 but I've been offered a few things. It's not the law, you say the treasure is bad, the law was unconstitutional. That's not true! The Constitutional Court has assessed that Article 42 is anti-constitutional or that it does not comply with the Constitution and not the rest of the law. So we're talking about an article. The article may have had too high a fine in terms of the severity of the violations that a political party may commit, which is another issue. What we were saying, and to try to tell you more simply why we're against this law, we're aware that you've copied the old one. We are against it because you have also introduced financial monitoring of the referendum which de facto prevents the holding of a referendum or imposes very great precise obligations on those who maintain and prepare a referendum de facto in the same way that funding must be controlled and regulated as the political parties competing in the political game. And again I'm going to point out not all game numbers. It's not the same referendum as the election, and it'll never be. By setting up too many fences and obstacles to the referendum, you are making it impossible for citizens to make a direct statement, and you are comparing a referendum with a political game, which is neither correct nor good for the development of direct democracy, and therefore we will not support the law. We don't get to these voters that you erased, so I'll leave it behind for another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109335	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109336	You were able to explain in two minutes more than 8:00 and you did it. So as far as the reason for not upholding the law is concerned, if that's because it regulates the referendum I understand two things, then one thing is that you will support the referendum law if it is put into the referendum law because it would be a place for you there, perhaps. And that's one of the proposals that was heard in the public debate and about this law. As for the equalisation of referendums and elections, I must admit that the public election committee's testimony, though in the old constitution, has just gone to the point of equating in this terms of funding, that is to say, to get close, let's not exactly equally referenda and elections, and that is the body appointed by the Parliament, unbiased but multipartyly to conduct therefore elections, to monitor elections and referendums. Therefore, we will discuss this with them for another reading, and I believe that we will receive equally useful remarks. And here's the answer to the replica. I can't remember what I was going to say anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109337	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, isn't it surprising to you that so many citizens' initiatives during this short period of time of 3.5 years for referendums? You talked about several initiatives and how only one referendum was carried out. Some of you manipulated in various ways and prevented them from being held in general, some of them not being maintained because of some other things I don't get into the Constitutional Court's evaluations, but the one you mentioned in principle was very quickly manipulated by the law that you actually quickly adjudicated the will of the citizens. But it's a thing that's kind of government whose member you are. You just don't want to hear the citizens, you don't even want to hear what's going on and you do things on your own very often. I said a moment ago in the replica also asked you, I ask you again did the government break the law when it did not make a decision on those EU elections as prescribed by the law? Is the government allowed to do that? And then it could be linked to all these referendums, it could also be linked to what is happening now with the Immunological Institute and ask if the government in any way manipulates the Croatian public and Croatian citizens? Therefore, it is simply not good to play the will of the citizens and it is not good to choke democracy especially the one declared in the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109339	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109340	As for the referendum in the term of office of this and the term of office of the last government, only one was held, but all but one were successful and all of them succeeded except for this one. All the objectives that the organisers of the referendum had by collecting signatures were achieved both in the Labour Act and in the monetization, and in the outsorcing, one part of the electoral system, and the only goal that was not achieved was in the definition of marriage. Because what they wanted could not have been written in the referendum issue because it would have been unconstitutional and this was clearly stated by the Constitutional Court that regardless of the results of this referendum which was held that it would not have an impact on the rights of people living in same-sex communities. Therefore, the government did not manipulate anything in that part. As for the number of voters, those who try to connect me to any verb that is similar or I don't know what to call words to manipulate, thus underestimating the abilities, intelligence and common sense of constitutional judges because here I was able to convince them of something that everyone sees but me and them. So I call upon all those who think so to demand the testimony of the Ministry of Administration to the Constitutional Court on this matter and then let them see after that whether what they're saying exactly or what I'm saying is right. Therefore, the total number of voters was a constitutional formulation in which the referendum was entered by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have residence outside the Republic of Croatia. And the Constitutional Court never questioned it because no one ever asked him that as they say. Now that he has been asked by the Constitutional Court, he has made a decision based on the data provided by the Ministry on the very precise questions that we have received and where all the numbers that can be served for this purpose from 346 to 450 thousand and they have made the decision they have made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109341	Thank you. Branko Bacic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, you said they have come often in this House of Understanding between the majority parties in the Assembly and HDZ on certain referendum issues. The fact that we in the House have supported certain suggestions that the referendum questions are referred to the Constitutional Court does not mean that we agree on the scale. When we speak, for example, of a referendum on this monetization, you know very well that it did not actually give the Constitutional Court to the Government, but said that the referendum issue that represents the whole of a Law on the Prohibition of Concession of Public Roads is not in accordance with the Constitution, but that does not mean that the Government would not be able to return the referendum issue to the Constitutional Court, but it is clearly stated in the reasoning of the Constitutional Court that the government could only return the procedure to where it belongs in the Croatian Assembly. Therefore, if we agree that a question should be referred to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of its constitutionality. This does not mean that we agree on an important thing, or a metric, which is what the referendum issue means and why the referendum is opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109343	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109344	Well, I said in my last reply to the replica that this referendum on monetization worked. No matter what the goals of the organizers have not been achieved and other solutions are now being sought and ok. It's the role of the Constitutional Court in that part. Now, as far as this agreement is concerned, I didn't mean these technical decisions to refer the issue to the Constitutional Court but to the metrics. So as far as the referendum on the electoral system is concerned, we agreed to the metrics that we are not for that kind of change in the electoral system. But one part of the change that is demanding and it is a preferential vote not within the scope sought by the organisers, which I think was the worst part of their proposal because some others were good, which we don't all have to agree on again, and that's where we agreed. So then we agreed on a proposal from Jadranka Kosor to schedule mandates when someone is expelled, so that's exactly the change of this law and so on. So is Mr. Mlakar and Mr. Klaric, that we agree on some things, and now it is political that because of some small things you do not support, we cannot blame you too much. It's the opposition's action that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109345	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, we are discussing the law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. When we talk about this fee that you're talking about for the candidate president if this isn't what we're discussing in law, then the government made the wrong decision. Because if the government rewards someone for winning 10 or 15% of the votes, then it's a reward to them personally, not to compensate for the costs. And I think it's the biggest problem that anyone has ever tried to say that these money belongs to someone personally because it's just not like that by any law. And that's why I said that this article 20 should be clarified because if it says that the costs of the promotion are then the costs of the promotion and can only be used in such a way. And will someone, as part of their promotion, say that they give away 200 thousand kuna for some kind of humanitarian thing, but they have to get into those 8 million kunas. And if we clearly define it that way then it will be that, if we don't define it then it will be a reward because someone won 10 or 15% of the votes and then it belongs to him personally, and then you also have to get from the Ministry of Finance an interpretation of whether it is subject to tax or not. And this is how you throw someone in the mud and muddy him for three, four days because someone's interpreting something that's not what I think is inadmissible. Tomorrow you can find yourself in such a situation, and I say the law is crystal clear. And another thing, if anyone has made a mistake in this story, the government has made a mistake. The government has made a decision on some amount paid out of the state budget. Then she had to define it clearly. Whether it's a reward for winning 15% of the vote or a fee for a promotional campaign. If it is a fee for a promotional campaign, and the condition is that you pass 10% of the votes then it is clear and then it is not taxable and then it should be clearly defined in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109347	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109348	Well, I'm not exactly prone to the House making laws and then asking the IRS what we actually brought. So I am that it is saidly defined in the law that it is not subject to income tax and then we are done with the whole story. As for the decision as far as the candidate has the right to cost, it was not the government that made it, it was the DIP. After the candidates handed over the costs of the promotion after the reports were completed and it happened that one candidate this third with 15% of the votes received more funds than he said had had the cost of election promotion. So there's one thing that's been applied so far in a way that no matter how much money you spend. If you've spent any kuna, you have the right to compensation for the budget. And it can also be defined in another article of the law that you won't get any more expenses than you said you'd spent. Yeah, it's possible to do that and then you won't have any extras or anything, you don't have to ask the IRS or pay the income tax, and then it's considered a donation as part of election promotion costs and all the offices. So these are possible things to discuss. And here's how the HDZ representatives were on board, and they made those remarks, we could have had a brief discussion about it today, but we're gonna do the same thing for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109349	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109350	Thank you very much. Well, the honourable ministers of your interpretation have actually succeeded in all the referendums if I have listened well to you. They have not been held but they have all succeeded because many of the solutions proposed in some other way have become an integral part of the policy. and I don't think that's the aim of the referendum in that way that people wanted to do some things just to cement that something would happen in the future, exactly with the referendum. But well, you've used all your knowledge here obviously and what I'm saying is manipulation, and I don't know now how much 10% of the signatures are needed to hold the referendum. How do you sum these up in diaspora means the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the diaspora, are they only those who register so they can sign and come here, or is that the total number of people who live there and then add it up to those who are in the register of voters in the Republic of Croatia? Because we see here in the laws of some different solutions that we say allow these same-sex communities some things that are not allowed in the diaspora. And it's all on the trail of what I said you were running a non-consistent policy. Remember the Law on Local Self-Government when I warned you that we cannot allow local authorities and directly elected leaders to depend on the will of one individual. You assured us that by your law you would bring them into a mutually dependent relationship. We have seen that all the cohabitations that existed after the local elections in 2013, I speak of cohabitations and that many early elections were held in local self-government. And the prime minister himself said that you passed a bad law after you lost the city of Vukovar because it once again depended on the will of an individual to bring that authority down. Well, here I think it would be good if we started thinking about it for the rest of the election and that the law changed because it's really bad and you don't want to admit it. Like some of the solutions you've suggested here are also bad, even though I say you yourself admitted that 90% of this bill has been rewritten.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109351	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109352	In a row. As for the number needed for the referendum, all dilemmas and ambiguities are resolved by the Constitutional Court in its own obvious and I will explain it later, it is now, two minutes. So if someone asks for a referendum today, the Ministry of Administration will decide on the number of signatures that will be 380 thousand plus, minus 1000 depending on daily movements, etc. And as for this, that, that all the referendums have succeeded, yes, yes, well, the goals of those organizers have succeeded, that's what Mr. Shucker said, so regardless of the referendum on the Labour Act, he hasn't changed. ... He changed after a few years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And so that's one very accurate interpretation. Otherwise, in his testimony, Professor Smerdel, who wrote as a constitutional court, said that the final result of the signing must not be a referendum but that the goals are achieved in some other way, so that it is fully in the spirit of European countries' practices and recommendations from the Venice Commission. As far as local self-government is concerned, I think it is good that the cohabitations have fallen and that the citizens in the elections have decided which of the two sides will have the majority in the council and get the mayor and where the cohabitations remain and after the re-election, let the jobs be taken or let them fight again, and let them go to the elections again. No one can help them if they can't help themselves, that would be worth the same thing from those two sayings I said. And as for the statement that we passed a bad law I think it's true, you quoted that first statement exactly,... No, this was to see if we passed a good law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I listened to him being in Supetar for six months. And that's it, and look, some of the guys who took down the chief are burned to treat burns today and some of them have succeeded. They were obviously good or bad commissioners, so they can risk everyone's will if they want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109353	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109354	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums in the first reading with the note, of course, that in the previous debate on committees and also here in the plenary, there are a number of quality remarks that can lead to the improvement of text in the second reading. Well, then, we mean that the motionary, or the Ministry of Administration, will keep that in mind and, in that sense, will consistently resolve some open issues. But here I want to say that this area of financing political activities, election promotions and referendums is actually one legal area that has been intensively regulated for the last 5 years. The Law on the financing of political parties before that did not cover all the problems we were facing. And I would dare say that by 2011 when the law was passed in a similar form, Croatia was actually a paradise of political corruption. Two key moments have contributed at least to the partial suppression of that monster. One is the introduction of a direct election institute for the mayor, mayor and mayor. Because if you remember by then, the situation was in many representative bodies so that practically from the session to the representative body session you could expect the permanent replacement of mayors, commissioners and mayors. And because trade was a political agreement, running from one side to the other was such a widespread sport that it became not already ridiculous but tragic. We have listened to numerous situations that have never been punished. And there's the paradox that he was punished and that the first person who gave anything was the one who didn't do it, but the accused said so. And horriblely, he grabbed our former colleague, Sabo, by the end of all those who publicly admitted that they were giving and receiving. Which had contracts signed with each other on the transition because they practically and quantified the conditions under which they do so. So for the alleged attempt, he got not in political terms, but he got a burden that he would long, long still try to free and those who offered apartments, jobs, cash, jobs would never likely come to justice and there were many and many cases. Something stabilized somewhat when an institute was introduced, as I said directly. But we had, say, a city where I came from an eclatant example of such a situation that, despite that, the unrest and instability in the representative body could last and beyond. So not only did they cross the so-called so-called. independent, not only did the parties decide to go from one post-election coalition to another but they entered another post-election coalition. And most practically more brutally changed the will of citizens who were shown in the elections, in some cases just before. The second moment that introduced order, let's not forget, was precisely the Law on the financing of political activities in 2011, but it was not proposed by the then government because it had enlightened itself in the need to curb political corruption and the space in which the gray zone was ruled but for two very important reasons. The first was a terrible public pressure, and the second was a terrible pressure from the European Commission. And if the law had not been passed, negotiations with the European Union would probably have looked a little different. And now, look at the paradoxal situation, we've been discussing this law all day, and I see that it's very agile to discuss it that those who allegedly come from high moral principles as if practically yesterday it wasn't a situation in which the president of their party says elections are not won by those on the table, but 50% of the funds under the table. That's the first thing. And the other thing, where it was actually a practice for political activity financiers to be public companies and where then a case so great must happen called the Fimi Media that the entire nation is aware that indeed parallel public sources are being drawn and informally into black also from public sources of money. Because I also care about the position of the Government, which was verbalized by Minister Bauk, that it is much smarter to insist on funding political parties from public and transparent sources, in particular in budgetary or budgetary cases, is something that we strongly support because practice has shown that whenever the sources of funding were actually allowed to be from another sphere, it opened up space for non-transparent financing. To be clear, there is no law without political culture and a positive practice that will change our practice in principle, or I would say inherited political culture, something that we have, which is that there will always be one part of the funds spent for political purposes or for political promotion that will not come and will not be spent transparently. Among other things, there are regulations that require political parties to operate over one bank account, and they have, say, 3 or 4 or 5 hundred organisational forms where they are actually sent to local organisations. And we need to be aware of that. It's just that it's not a problem when you volunteer work get involved in the story, the problem is when actually black funds get dragged into the story. We heard an observation about why it goes to the new law when it's prescribed old. That's funny and it's hypocritical. In fact, this house, this House, this House of Commons, has long adopted one criterion by which if so many provisions are changed in the existing legal text that they are passing, it is never said or written, but about 20% of the existing solutions are known, that it must go to the new legal text, especially if changes and additions have been made on several occasions. I remind you, the basic text was adopted in 2011, changed again in 2011, and again in 2013, and again in 2014, and we still have as much as we have been able to count 39 news. So that we have now adopted this in the form of amendments and the addition of the law but then we would really have reason to yell and be angry because it does not create consistent legal text and review, and in this case it is very important for us to really make the text clear, examined in one place, and that it does not have to be done through amendments and amendments to articles 1a, 18b to reconstruct what the legislator said because it only creates an atmosphere where it can be done probably badly. Several times today, this new solution to the transition or decision of independent councilors was mentioned. The big question is that they're even independent councilmen. We know what that means, but it seems to me that, apart from the election units that elect representatives of national minorities at national level and other than candidates who compete in the minority self-government elections that have nothing to do with this, we can hardly talk about people who are truly independent. We can talk about non-party candidates, but there are both party lists and coalition lists. Otherwise, I would like all political parties in the Republic of Croatia to open more to non-party people and show that they are not sectarians, that they are able to co-operate with those who think alike, but have not necessarily tied themselves to a political party, but that they remain responsible. In that sense, this proposal was written. But our practice shows they're so-called. Independent representatives are the softest target of political corruption because they come from small communities, small organisations, small lists, have no infrastructure that protects them and are then targeted by different forms of pressure. After all, we now have a paradoxical situation as they associate independent lists to come out together for national elections. Well, that's the ips fact that a political party is being created. It does not matter if it is formally called or not, but the creation of a political body that is able to run at national level is nothing but the creation of one, perhaps.../The speaker is not understood. ideologically political to the end of a non-philt but certainly coherent political option which is acting as a political party. And that's why, not without the devil's sake, Article 6. A constitution that stems from the political party being a constitutional category, an institute without which is an unimaginable contemporary political culture of a democratic society that does not deprive, of course, the possibility of exceptions confirming the rule. There are others in this assembly. I'm afraid there won't be that much in the next one. In any case, it is necessary to approach resolution and some doubts, and this proposal, therefore, goes in that direction. Recently, a municipal court sentenced no less, no more than 15000 kuna for a candidate who competed in the previous local elections for the head of the municipality because the State Election Commission had declared him because he did not publish a financial report on his website in time. He was late in the announcement literally two weeks ago. The court punished him for three times the amount he invested in his own campaign. It's a narcissistic situation, it's a dragon's punishment. So, when we talk about penalties that are unsustainable, we should not only refer to the Constitutional Court's decision that declared me to be the 42nd article practically unconstitutional, but there is also a caucus case law where in a municipality that has literally 1300 residents, one of the five candidates was late 15 days to put the report on the website, he finally informed the State Election Commission, but according to the DIP, he filed a criminal report and the man was convicted. A man who doesn't have that kind of income and certainly didn't deserve it as a citizen who had politically activated and engaged, went to the polls and got 14% in one environment in which the sheriff's government has already seemed to me since '96. The year is the chief, rather than being encouraged to give an alternative to such petrified structures, these fossils regardless of which parties they come from. In particular, this one comes from HDZ, he received a fine of 15000 kuna. So these are situations that must be prevented and legislation that regulates the issue of financing political activities, promotions and referendums. Given the fact that the referendum law as such has not resolved this issue, it is perfectly logical for me to address the matter of the referendum here as well. If it is not to the end consistent, or carried out in a way that does not harm the institution of the referendum as a form of direct expression of citizens, then we have time until another reading to resolve this issue of trusts, associations, illicit sources of funding. And I hope we do, but that's no reason to be against this law. And that's why I repeat, the HNS Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109355	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Marijan Škurić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, in your debate you have very well highlighted the importance of this law, because funding political activities, election promotions are very important. Well, it's important that we can even question whether some of the choices were valid, even even equal. Because we who participate in election campaigns, how can you go with someone into a good election campaign if you have to buy yourself a promotional material at a smaller level, and someone can get out of the funds that you said yourself from public companies, and that's tens and hundreds of billions of kunas could not only pay for the performance of the best estrogen stars, but even pay them not to participate in that part at all. But of course, you also said good situations about how certain fines were paid in that election campaign. But no one really mentions in this law, it's Article 18 that you can pay a fee for a photocopier material, for a piece of paper you're photocopying in a way like the mayor, the mayor will pay if he's in an election campaign, if by chance in his state administration anyone's photocopying some material, if he's under any indication that he's in the commission of promiscation in the election campaign he's going to pay a fine for a paper he's photographed. Or maybe a random text or some phone call, and there were cases like that and an official cell phone. I think that's where we should distinguish whether that's exactly the kind of thing for a fine at that level, for some kind of paper, or for the heavy billions that are... The campaign, and no one in that section has launched any responsibility, and neither took the money nor eventually got any punishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know no one's ever talked about it at that level before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109357	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109358	Col. Skvarić, therefore, the practice did not come from anything but from a doctrinal position when the president of your party says, the deputy to his own, elections are not won with money on the table, but 50% of the money under the table, then it is a model of behavior for all who are below. So you're not going to hire a FIMI Media to take money from a national state-owned company, you're going to hire someone local to take it from a local. So that's that logic. And that's why right was the new State Attorney Cvitan when he announced in fact that the battle against corruption at local level is, in fact, by scale, meaning and far-reaching even more important than that at national level. And then, of course, it comes to you funny when in situations that are eclectic and which are known to be a thieving millions of kunas, someone gets punished for the damage of 148 kuna and 25 limes as much as two hundred photocopies can be. Of course, neither should be forgiven, but some order of size must be known that the citizens of this country who give money to public sources so that it is redistributed do not feel maimed and dragged by the nose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109359	Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109360	Comrade Beus two brief remarks. You said this House passed a rule that when there are many amendments to the law we go with a new law, otherwise I welcome that you have come with a new one, not amendments and additions to the law. Unfortunately, this House has never accepted a proposal that one of these same laws could not have, say, 18 amendments and additions without forcing the Proposer to come with a new law after 19 or to publish consolidated texts. This may be a rule if there is a debate on the adoption of a proposal from the Legislative Committee that has some such proposals in it. And secondly, you mentioned independent lists and candidates in the election. So they're the ones who run for election and say they're not politicians going to the polls and saying they don't do politics. Croatia has so far, and particularly with this law, their rights in terms of candidacy, candidacy, electoral procedure and the right to compensation for the promotion and regular financing of the only EU member state that, apart from perhaps partly Denmark but to a far smaller extent, has fully equalised them with political parties. Except in articles of criminal sanctions in 62, where they pay 10 times less than the political party for the same act. So politicians who go to the elections, not dealing with politics, and not politicians, are completely equal with political parties and candidates of political parties, except for sanctions, so it would be good for the proposer to consider the part. In fact, if we went with logic, and I agree that we don't need sectarians, equating all positions in the election race and funding then and in responsibility must be the same as the political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109361	Thank you. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109362	As far as this first proposal is concerned, I hope not only if the Legislative Committee is a little louder than when Labourers enter the ruling Kukurik coalition that we will have a little more gas in the engine to turn it into a written rule. Secondly, as far as these unprofessional politicians are concerned, it's a completely narcissistic situation. Let's say the mayor of my city was the first two years of office after he was elected to the public all the time, justifying himself for stupidity, weight loss, failure, so no results kept saying, you know, I'm not a politician to you. So that's one message that's funny that can't be funnier. A man gets money for a political job that he does because he's a professional mayor and then he dares say I'm not a politician. It's every politician who's a member of the political party. And next to them anyone who shows up in a political game as an independent, impartially any other candidate. And you don't have to run from it. It's not something that's negative, something to be ashamed of, just the opposite. Let's not tell the kids that politics is a dirty activity that only deals with dads and breaks through. Because that way, in a year, two or five, we're going to make it really just like that. And then these people will all talk, you know, we're not politicians. Politics is an honorable duty, it obliges anyone involved in a political match and must behave as such. And it has to be worth more than anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109363	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109364	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Richembergh would disagree with this statement of yours that the easiest target is actually just independent representatives at local and regional levels, perhaps even in the Assembly because I think that first these transfers or crossings depend on people and their personal reflections and what they really want to achieve with such moves. Because, let's say we have a club that started here, the club of Independent Left-wings, it was party-based people, some and ministers. Let's just say it's not clear to me what an independent left-handed person means when we talk about independent people? Because it's independent or independent of the left, we don't like the right? That's what's in each other's hairs. I mean, if you're left-handed, you're right-handed, you're liberal, but you're an independent left-handed, so maybe you know what that is. But I will mention to you an example where they were not independent, they were members of the Labourists and we had a situation in the Primorje-Gorski County the mayor became mayor, most in Kukuriku County coalition of 23 MPs, opposition of all parties and Labourists 22. And then a member of the Green Party rebelled, and all the time he threatened to maybe not vote the budget. And there was just one hand missing. And what does politics do? After that experience, which was after the experience passed by former parliamentary representative Mr. Sabo simply those Labourists, two Labourists, even one of whom was the mayor's opponent to the Croatian People's Party. And suddenly, most of them were created, 25 - 20. Were they now addictive, independent, members of the Labourists? They've gone to your party. Now we also see in the city of Rijeka the same process, again I think two or three Labourists go to SDP or to that majority. Some processes happen, but it depends primarily on people. Because those who cross over take their mandates and rarely who returns or has the possibility or the desire to leave it to strangers and leave the council. It means that it depends primarily on people, not whether they are party members of one party or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109365	Thank you. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109366	A fellow Boric always depends on people and at least on machines. But when we talk about people, you know, I think the big problem with our policy is that all our parties have forgotten that famous and fantastic Leninov that human policy is the mother of all policies. So they run the staff policies so they can trust them today, and tomorrow they actually give them a chance or a reason to go to another party, but it doesn't even bother me if someone went from HNS to SDP or from the SDP to the Labourist, I don't know about the HNS or the OraH back to SDP. It's crazy for me when someone from the SDP goes to HDZ. Because you understand? Or someone from HDZ from the SDP. So, these cases that eclatively show that you're basically cheeky as a freak, so you can beat it any way you want, that's what's worrying because that's what sends a disgusting political message, so you can do what you want and you can do with everyone. So it can't be that way, it's not true that we can do what we want and that we can do with whoever we want because there isn't, there's no political credibility in that. And that's why it's the target of those who advance themselves to the independent. Why? Because he's not protecting them. They're protected only by their cheeks, the consistency of their political attitude and their personal integrity, but, you know, we had cases and threats, so we had cases and blackmail, and then the man was bloody under the skin and was given for small money or one apartment bribed. I had a case in Velika Gorica where a man was offered a three-bedroom apartment in Zagreb to move to HDZ, for example. I could never offer him that if I didn't know which party, not because we don't have that money, and we don't have it, but because it's below my every level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109367	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Gordana Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's already out of line, but it's still a few sentences. A good deed in terms of and support for the proposed law, with the belief that the individual debates that were held here today and during the day were that they would be respected until the next reading. I therefore favour the proposal of this law, and I particularly support it in that part that regulates and finance the referendum, although personally knowing that there were discussions, so through public debate, the question has also been raised, and the dilemma of whether this part of this law or possibly within the framework of the referendum law, I would say this way wherever it may be in this law, it may be in that referendum law, but I support that this is exactly how it is arranged because, in my opinion, there are too many unknowns about who have basically been funded among other things and the collection of signatures and everything that has gone with it. By arguing to remain exactly like this, by saying the restrictive measures listed in Article 57, which I consider to be prohibited from financing referendum activities and referendum promotions, or by not being able to finance referendum activities. With the exception of that, I agree with one part of the objection that comes from certain associations that, eventually but really, in this work, it should be pointed out precisely and that one part of the association will eventually be allowed to finance referendum activities and only then, if it is possible to demonstrate completely transparently that this funding is not done indirectly so to say, so precisely from the part of the funds from which it should not be implemented. Because, as I said in one replica to my reply, associations are mostly financed by good work from the local budget, or from the state budget, they are financed for a specific activity, or specific programmes they implement. And on this basis there are no options, there should be no possibility of funding referendum activities. I especially support that the foundations, foundations, religious communities and humanitarian organisations have nothing to ask for when it comes to funding a referendum of any type. Furthermore, the related eye, a lot has been said today about Article 5, so who has the right to regular annual budget funding? I believe that the much better solution is what was given in the proposal not in an alternative when I speak, therefore, of the resignation of Article 5(2) rather than that in the proposal itself, that there are members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government chosen from the list of a group of voters, rather than possibly remaining on the decision of local representative bodies. So it's not an alternative, it's an article 5 as proposed. As far as the issue of independent deputies is concerned, I agree with all those who have said that independent representatives are at least independent. I would perhaps talk more about non-party representatives who therefore also enter the Croatian Parliament or on behalf of a group of voters into representative local bodies, so they enter from certain lists. We assume, therefore, that they have not gathered from the hills from the valley but also have their own specific programme, certain interests that they represent and based on, or which they want to achieve by entering the representative body, whether it is the Parliament, whether it is a local unit. And I expect that if they enter the Croatian Parliament as such tomorrow, but in the next parliamentary elections, they will actually behave according to some and their own rules and not that they will come here and drag one to the other side. So, again, they have as much a similar structure as the political parties, besides a good part of those associations, has already formed their own parties so far. And I support the solutions proposed here in this bill, and I absolutely don't think that some colleagues have said that this makes it impossible for independent MPs to act in the same way, especially what this law will now apply in the next elections for Parliament. Finally, I would also like to say something about the proposal, or the debate that was held on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and this is what my colleagues on behalf of the club, I support the fact that the bill highlights and particularly members of national minorities who are elected from their lists. In addition to independent representatives, but this applies to Article 1 and to other articles, including all other articles mentioning both political parties and independent representatives, it should be added to me and national minority representatives so that there are no dilemmas about who has the right and in what way to finance. And, of course, this also applies to Article 7 which talks about the larger resources that are given to MPs, i.e. a representative who is a sub-represented sex primarily refers to women because we know that in political life I would say in a large minority, so in that article it should also be added to representatives of national minorities, which we know more than we know when Parliament is concerned that in Parliament's history there were very, very few women members of national minorities chosen on behalf of national minorities to represent a particular community. Here in one of the previous conferences was I think there was only one colleague of Zdenka Chuhnil, so maybe it could be an incentive for colleagues who are struggling to represent national minorities to run more women in the future. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109369	Thank you. Following is an individual debate, respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this law first of all because I see it as one of the only and the way it has been studied as one of the essential anti-corruption laws. I welcome the way he deals with the interested public, the general public, and the same thing that goes in two readings. As early as 15 years ago, the French Bishop's Conference held a special session on the topic of policy rehabilitation. And I see this very law not only as anti-corruption but also in that sense, which primarily contributes to the affirmation of every politician, every independent, every political party who wants to perform at any local or national level. Why until yesterday were they highlighted here several examples, but I remember well in the past term the minister... I am telling you I am not a politician. Is that normal? Is it normal for mayors or mayors to say I'm not a politician, and they perform important political functions? But what is it? It's sitting on that mill and that criticism that is sometimes justified for everything that some politicians have done or political parties have done. It blackens policy as a whole, but speak self-critically, speak and warn of such facts does not mean attacking politicians and politicians as a whole, but rather fighting for the purity of politics. No social activity, no shell activity, no profession can claim in advance that corruption cannot be nestled, but then investigated, condemn such elimination. This defends the purity of every call, especially the one we want and we believe and believe is the struggle for the common good, the engagement for the common good, and that it should be to the greatest extent possible. That's why all those who try and hide it in their recent history, it's very dangerous. It reminds me of the opportunity to behave like that again. So as individuals, as politicians, we must be absolutely and mature to condemn everything that is evil and to affirm what is good with anyone, with our political opponents, with our competitors. Here's a colleague today, I think, from HDZ, Mr Dujo Marasovic said that they, as a matter of fact, would limit the financing of the political party, so that he could sell his own house. And you see, he's gone now. Apparently, in the engagement of the struggle, the voice by voice and the struggle for the preferential vote has already been put into such a race, and it is not here. So now that we're talking about that and we need to talk about it, for all those models that seem as acceptable to the public as they are to the referendum. Certainly he himself and his essence is, but the better the institute is lurking and the greater the possibilities of abuse. It does not mean giving up that institute but it also means making such fences so that it can revive in its fullness. It's the same with the preferential vote, the same thing. A colleague here speaks today saying on behalf of his club, why not all the preferential voices so that the people choose exactly that. So did the people put you in? They'll be put back by the political party, put on top of the party. So let's not pretend we all know that. Whom we raise, we deceive the people if we will not admit it. But it is the interest of the party and the interest of this law to put on the list those who are worthy, who have worked, who did not harm the citizens above all, and then not to their party. And by that we can differ and recognize each other. And that's why you see, and I think that here we should unite after that because many are lurking and attacking right now, criticism versus politicians is justified but sometimes excessive. And they are not good intentions for those who say that fu is all that is political because then they perform. They're pushing God, maybe even inventing someone, someone who's independent. That's why it serves this bill. As Mr. Cvitan said we're following a trail of money, we're going to find out everything about everyone where he's been, what he's been buying, not across Europe, but the world. And it's also in political life, and that's why many citizens are rightly angry at politicians, especially what happened to us in history, recently, an entire political party convicted of stealing state money. Therefore, this should, above all, be limited by financial resources because such funds are too much and too much of everything that has been made possible within that one limit for me. But that limit, regardless of whether anyone can raise more funds, does it have so many powerful donors, not because some smaller ones can't. And that's exactly the best answer to those who think they're cut off because they're small but they can't get into parliament because they have 1.5.2%. Well, that's what this initiative has been hiding, which has celebrated its own initiative, which has also called its Initiative "Let's choose representatives by name and last name!" and has not said what their initiative also contains, let's join the House with 2%. It's not the citizens' drive. And what kind of a convulsion that would be, it's impossible to even say coffee could make a decision. But it certainly needs to be affirmed that people's desire to recognize the citizens on the list of those they would rather see in their order and such a person than perhaps what the leader or the top of one party suggested. Now that's where we come to the referendum. Someone tells us from HDZ, Mr. Mlakar teaches us that we don't even know what democracy is because we set the same conditions for elections and for funding the referendum. Yeah, same transparency. Who knows... initiatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know exactly how the unions know that they've done everything on their own, that we've seen them there. Who's been seeing some people on some civic initiative? Let's not kid ourselves. The role of direct democracy is indeed needed, it corrects and complements representative institutions. It gives the electoral body a direct vote in the decision and in a specific and political, either political, constitutional or legislative issue. Of course, it's not just us, the frequency of these civil initiatives, but in the last, if we look around Europe a little bit and beyond, in the last 30 or 40 years, that number of referendum initiatives has multiplied multiple times. However, they also have their own limitations and these are, above all, restrictions on national rights, minority rights, not only national but all minorities and equal human rights. It is often mentioned in Switzerland as an example in our case, Switzerland, please, when it gave women the right to vote. Switzerland, which banned the referendum and the construction of minarets but also banned an excellent initiative to tax the rich layer more drastically. So let's not kid ourselves, I already read the statement this morning... , former head of the State Assembly of Carolina, therefore, from the United States of America who have very much experience in the referendum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She says any billionaire can change the constitution of the state, all he has to do is spend money and lie to the people. So it's very important to us, who is being funded to see whose they are and whether they are his noble intentions. Today, the initiative "In the Name of the Family" was also mentioned, and one, I don't even know that they said it directly, but the HSS gentleman claims, here you can see how this initiative was played. Although the head of this initiative said when she advocated this referendum that has passed, the Constitution changed on the definition of marriage, we are not against anyone, we just want to protect marriage as a community of men and women. So these are good initiatives that all you have to do is protect from abuse and this is the best way, show me who's funding you, and I'll see what your intentions are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109371	I would like to thank the last individual debate, dear Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the assistant. The Law itself, or the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of Political Activity, Election Promotion and Referendum, is indeed quite said today. I think both representation and the Minister's explanations are more than quality and give insight into the full law. I'd approach from one slightly different side. It's in the first reading, so a little poetic freedom is allowed. ... that at least a few words should be said in the context of this agenda point in order to communicate with the public about the importance of political parties' status in modern society or in the modern state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All modern countries so-called Western civilizations, as well as some countries of South America, Japan, Australia and others, have accepted values built on the foundations of liberal democracy based on 17th century English liberalism theories and on the fluids of the American and French revolution. Modern world-wide liberal democracy theorists Huntington, Hobson, to me my favorite Francis Fukuyama and many others, argues that the only possible form of state that successfully develops all economy and society, a country based on liberal democracy. Croatia is also one of the countries that accepted capitalist social order and liberal democracy after independence and liberation. The basis of liberal democracy is pluralism of pluralistic thinking and thinking, and in order to turn it into too many... programmes are necessary political parties. So political parties are necessary in every modern state. Without political parties, there is neither democratic order nor freedom. Without liberal democracy, private entrepreneurship, there is neither progress in the economy nor in other human activities. Today in Croatia, political parties are publicly interpreted as the greatest evil of the entire society. Politics is underrated, and politicians as individuals are often overestimated. We have a big problem with the media that takes on their own and simply a mission that doesn't belong to them. On the one hand, they run for profit because virtually all the media at national level and the vast majority in the local, in the Republic of Croatia are privately owned. On the other hand, editors try to convince themselves and the public that their mission is to make Croatia a better society. Media, journalists and editors must and should contribute to this, but it is certainly not their primary job and it is not their mission. It is simply a business of politics and politicians, and every other individual in any other activity actively contributes to the improvement of the state. In this... and incomprehension is constantly being conducted in public by various wrongs about bad politics, bad political parties. It is clear that there is staticness, uniformity, self-adhesiveness, maybe old-fashionedness is both in the work and in the internal structure of political parties, but they are organised as most political parties in the European Union and are organised by law. Political parties are in a broader sense organised by civil society, so groups of people under the current 100 law are organised by the founding assembly, written by the statutes, elected by the Law on political parties, and the party was founded and that is how it must be. And no one has the right to interfere except for the administration to verify legality, the internal organisation of any political party. Clearly, it can always be criticised and may be required to amend the Political Party Act, but only party members may and may intervene within their party in accordance with the party's statutes. Various theorists, critics, critics, independent thinkers are happily involved in the internal democratic or non-democratic structure of political parties. The only way to change that is to get into a political party so they can change it from within or form their own party within a 100 group. The financial operations of all political parties financed and 1 kuna from the state or local budget must also be made publicly available, and this proposal also regulates the financing of political activities, election promotions, referendums. The citizens in the elections decide whether or not some party and its policy are attractive to them in any way. Every political party and all political parties make up adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These are all our fellow citizens who have decided to put part of their free time in the service of public interest. These fellow citizens, members of political parties decided not to be in a cafe, not to sit at games, not to go to gym, not to sit in front of TVs, not to go on a weekend with family, not to hack and play cards. They and they decided to work for the common good, for the public interest and their engagement should simply be respected. None of the hundreds of thousands of members or members of political parties are seeking or expecting any praise. They're all used to being publicly muddled, called by neighbors and fellow citizens, almost always in a negative context. Infrequently, members of political parties are exposed to public attacks and humiliations, and local and national media support this with pleasure. I say this not in the protection of politicians in public functions, I say in defense of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who do every day selflessly, believing in their mission, the mission of their political party and its political person, and the mission of every political party and policy is the improvement of the Republic of Croatia, each from its specific point of view. And finally, I want to say that it is important to raise faith in politics and political parties. It is important because it raises faith in the system, and as Fukuyama said in his book "The End of History", if there is no faith in the system then there is no active and sacrificial cooperation, necessary for the normal functioning of the entire system. So to conclude, political parties are a necessary tool for the development of freedom and democracy, necessary for the functioning of the modern state. These include voluntary and free citizens and citizens, our fellow citizens who have the desire and courage to make their community better. On my own behalf, thank them for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109373	Thank you. In conclusion, the minister of the administration, the respected Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109374	... After an almost all-day debate, I can express the satisfaction of the proposals that we have received on the text of the law that we will improve by the second reading and hope that until the summer break we will direct it to another reading so that it can be accepted and that it can live. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109375	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109376	Proposal for a law on the financing of political activities and election promotion and referendum, first reading, P.Z. No. 820. The debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 7 abstentions, 7 votes against, 17 apologies, 17 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109583	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 832 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister of Administration, the Honorable Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109584	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The relevant law has made significant improvements in the exercise of the right to access information held by public authorities and incorporated Directive 2003/98EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information which prescribes the conditions and method of re-use of information for commercial and non-commercial purposes. The draft law amending and supplementing this law proposes compliance with Directive 2013/37EU of 26 June 2013 amending this Directive on the re-use of public sector information, which provides for far greater and more precise obligations for Member States to adopt the regulation law and administrative regulations necessary for the implementation of this Directive by 18 July 2015. The transposition of Directive 37/2013 required intervention through a significant number of provisions of the law. In line with the new commitments, greater availability of data for re-use will be ensured and the possibility of using open data by citizens, the private sector and civil society in creating new values and products. In this respect, the provisions on the collection of costs and re-use in such a way as not to charge the re-use of information when the information is published on the official website. Only limited costs incurred due to their reproduction by giving to use and dissemination may be charged by the bodies. In particular, costs may be charged above actual material costs if it is a body of a public authority which is largely financed from its own income, or it is a matter of information which the public authority provides revenue covering the costs of its collection, production of reproduction and publication. Special rights for charge of non-basic costs are provided for libraries, museums or archives. All bodies which have the right to charge costs above basic costs shall be provided with a reasonable return on investments. Furthermore, licences setting out the conditions for re-use are regulated so that the conditions do not unduly restrict the possibility of re-use and may not be used to limit competition. In view of the need to avoid the non-limitation of re-use and to support the adoption of common practice in the Union, the Directive is an incentive for Member States to achieve openness and interoperability. In particular, the issue of banning discrimination, but also the possibility of granting exclusive rights, has been regulated. Therefore, although the reuse of the information is authorised and available to all applicants with the same compensation and under the same conditions, the exclusive right to reuse of the information may be granted if it is necessary to provide public service or other services in the public interest. It is an obligation for those public authorities to publish on their websites the criteria for the collection of costs and how to calculate costs with all factors taken into account, and to publish information on the actual amount of costs charged, re-use of information at the annual level. The adoption of the Law on the right to access information in 2013 based on proactive publication and public involvement in the creation of public policies and regulations has increased the public's interest in access to information. It is precisely an increased public interest in access to information that has pointed to the fact that some legal provisions are too broadly defined or misread, and that certain legal provisions need to be more clearly defined and aligned with the amendments to other regulations. The proposed amendments and amendments regulate the Law on the right to access information and provide information on the basis of specific regulations. In the amendment to Article 1(1) extending the content of the law in order to comply with the Directive as an alternative to the existing paragraph 3 it is proposed to amend it. Therefore, the existing provision excludes the application of the FPI to parties, administrative and judicial and other in law-founded procedures which establish the availability of information from such proceedings by means of a regulation and, from the point of view, that information from which a party should have been easier and faster than the application of the FPI. The application of this provision pointed to a problem in its implementation in such a way as to make it more accessible to the parties, but also to third parties to the information through the application of the CFSP than the procedural rules in which deadlines are longer, and the demand for information should be explained by a legitimate or legal interest. Therefore, the alternative paragraph 3 proposes to amend it in such a way that the proposed provision excludes the application of the law in all cases where the availability of information by court, administrative or other law-founded proceedings is established by a regulation, irrespective of whether it is a party or another user of the information. This is proposed in order to avoid conflict with other laws governing the availability of information on judicial and administrative proceedings, which leads to problems in the application of the relevant law on concrete cases of the exercise of the right to access to information. There are clearer arrangements for individual legal definitions, the public authority, the owner of information and the principles of the law. Within the scope of the ZPPI, legal persons having public authority, i.e. public service and financing from public funds, shall also be included in the scope of direct financing through public budgets or by the collection of imposing or giving of so on. parafiscal charges directly from users, citizens or legal persons. The obligation to pro-actively publish information in accordance with Article 10 shall be governed by priorities and importance. The purpose of the regular publication and updating of information by the public authorities is to double. On the one hand, it facilitates access to information for citizens and other entities and, on the other hand, facilitates the work of the public authority because it is ultimately necessary to result in a reduction of the number of requests for access to information. Therefore, a set of information which is published proactively systematicly and precisely arranged and where it was necessary to be narrowed down. The proposed provision of Article 10 is clearer, more pronounced and precise by means of a proactive publication to see what obligations public authorities have to make. In a clearer way, the provision of Article 11 is regulated. Public consultation law. For reasons of clarity and unnecessary burden on all public authorities, the newly proposed provision is a narrowed circle of public authorities which are bonds to conduct public consultations with the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public powers, general acts affecting the interests of citizens and legal persons and strategic planning documents. In order to facilitate the implementation of the provisions in the obligation to adopt a public consultation plan, its content, and to make it clear that the public consultation procedure for draft laws other than the draft laws adopted under the rules and the duration of the consultation procedure is laid down. Exceptions to access restrictions are specified in Article 15 of the Law. There is an extension of the restrictions on the document and the document in the internal preparation or examination of a question or decision-making process. In accordance with the existing prevailing international practice of the state to protect internal processes, specific treatment of documents in the production and documents resulting from internal preparation or consideration of a question or decision-making process is envisaged. It is necessary to note that the restriction regime and in these situations is subject to a mandatory assessment by the public authority of the existence of a public interest which prevails, respectively... it must state the reasons for the restriction as well as the control of an independent body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is prescribed not to be considered a request for access to information and how to deal with such requests. The practice so far has highlighted the unnecessary application and burden of the public authority in certain situations that do not justify the use of this institute. For example, seeking insight into the entire case file, giving clarifications or instructions regarding the exercise of a right or the exercise of an obligation, the making of an analysis or interpretation of a regulation, as well as the creation of new information. These rights may be exercised in the prescribed regular procedures, e.g. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The law obliges the authorities of the public authority to refer the applicant to the exercise of the right. Cases of abuse of the right to access information have also been prescribed when public authorities are exposed to misappropriation by users of information. The basic purpose of this provision is to protect the public authorities from requirements which do not achieve the purpose of the law as well as the protection of the rights of other users and services so as not to tolerate their rights by engaging excessive resources to address chicaneous requirements. The abuse of a law guaranteeing access to information has been recognised as a possible situation contrary to the law's intensities to ensure access to information allows individuals to significantly burden the work of public authorities in an excessive or excessive number of requests. In particular, it is felt in smaller bodies which, in view of their capacities, cannot meet excessive requirements within the legal deadlines. There are identified situations where individuals, through a large number of requests, are mistreated by the public authority or by specific officials in that body. The abuse of requirements should be seen in the spirit of the principle of mutual respect and cooperation which is important in order to create partnership relations and raise awareness of citizens and public authorities from the importance of access to information, transparent public administration work and public interest. It also redefines the provisions on the content of the law enforcement report in a way that the Commissioner for Information can determine each year the aspect of the implementation of the ZPPI, which he wishes to present to the Assembly. One transitional provision in Article 66(3) has been repealed. In order to improve the right to access information and to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement and to ensure the implementation of Article 38(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees access to information of public importance with restrictions under the prescribed law, needed better to address the identified difficulties in the application of the CFSP, whose amendment we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109585	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of the Sunny Glavak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, it might be best to discuss first the Report by the Commissioner on Information on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2014 where the Commissioner on almost 150 pages provided a detailed analysis of the state of law enforcement in practice and ultimately made recommendations for its improvement in 13 points. All of these recommendations and its indication of the amendment and addition of the Law on the right to access to information are not observed, i.e. they are not considered to be an integral part as a measuring body implementing the cited law. So we express our disdain that we did not first discuss what the Commissioner said, what were the difficulties in the work and what she said in her guidelines because we believe that these would be relevant indicators for us to be incorporated into this bill. The promoter, we heard part of this and from the minister, his obligation to amend and supplement the law of justice by Directive 2013/37/EU which has served, we would dare say, as a front to intervene in those parts of the law that have been shown to function well and well in practice. However, it is obvious that such work was not appreciated by someone because the present practice of availability is narrowed and restricted. Of the 72 articles of the colleague and colleagues of this law, as many as 30 are amended. So this isn't a small intervention and this isn't just a harmonisation with the directive. The directive is available, you can look at it, and the directive does not in any way impose all that is in front of us today. Of all the factors involved in the consultation process with the interested public, the proposals of the Commissioner for Information that we would keep are the most addressed to the metric and key factor in making a proposal to amend the law that she pointed out in her report and which I repeat is still waiting for us to discuss. Therefore, we do not know whether her cooperation was missing because I will remind you of her critical position towards the Government at the time when the funds were missing for the functioning of the Commissioner's Office, which only after the storm in the Parliament and the media were found but in a reduced amount. The proposal ahead of us envisions, among other things, consultation with the interested public for sublegal acts that will last not as long as it has been 30 days but 15 days. Why am I saying this specifically? Thus, in her report on the implementation of this same law, the Commissioner warned of violations of the law in many public authorities and so on in many ministries. In relation to non-compliance with the 30-day legal deadline for the implementation of the consultation, i.e. too brief determination of the duration of the consultation, the applicants indicated that the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Health did not comply with the prescribed period of consultation with the interested public and, as a rule, 7 to 10 days. The largest number of performances that requested an extension of the consultation deadline referred to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the applicant of the play indicated that for a longer time it was warned that 80% of the consultation with the interested public in that ministry would last less than the law prescribed for 30 days. Similarly, the applicant asked the Commissioner for Information to ask the competent ministries to extend the deadline for public consultation. We're doing exactly the opposite. On the contrary, we cut from 30 to 15 despite this being a suggestion and according to the Commissioner to see if this deadline can be extended. As regards the alternative proposal you offered us in Article 1(3), I have delegated the Law on the right to access information that will in practice prevent the exercise of the constitutional right to information. One in a series of articles that are contrary to the objective and purpose of the law itself, you will remember all the votes in the Croatian Parliament said that this law is necessary and necessary for the raising and transparency of the work of all bodies of public authority with the purpose of prevention, corruption, building public trust in their work. A whole series of remarks come from the NGO sector, associations, HNDs that are unique in the view that it is a proposal that seeks to restrict access to information and which is devastating for so far reached levels of transparency. Thus, among other things, they warn MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament that we should reject the violation of constitutional principles by favouring sublegal acts over fundamental law, consultation procedures with the public interest, I have already said something about it, to reject the manipulation of publication of only works of information on public procurement procedures, to reject the introduction of two new exceptions to the law which will unnecessarily slow down the exercise of the constitution of the guaranteed right to access information. In view of all of this, they even say they suggest that the text of the law be returned to the promoter in an effort to ensure the achievement of constitutional law. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the prescribed content of the public procurement contract register, in the other words of Article 11(2), in such a way as to define and write, in addition to online consultation, other appropriate forms of consultation, the stands, public representations and the like, by rejecting the restrictions imposed on publication of only those data relating to public procurement which are not published in the register and by clear regulation of the obligation to publish full public procurement information in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the prescribed content of the public procurement contract register. By rejecting the proposed general restriction on access to information in the process of drafting, addressing the issue of arbitral assessment of so-called chicaneous requirements, the minister specifically mentioned this in a way that the obligation to publish online information for which frequent requests for the supply of the same or similar information or requests have been made, or which requires a large number of information. However, there are a lot of objections, we would say too much if we were to comply only with the directive as presented here. There's one more question, we'll probably agree on that, what's actually in the public sphere? No one is likely to have a clear answer to this question, and because of such or similar interests, the public authorities are interpreting the sphere of public interest in their own way. One more thing that is proposed here, we heard it today and on the Media Committee of Proposers, it is that the number of bodies of public authorities will be reduced. At this moment, according to the available register in Croatia, more than 5,000 public authorities operate, some bodies will be excluded from the public authority body. We hope that a second reading of the observations of all interested parties will be considered to include in some way the general public and that by the second reading, the law will be significantly different. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also make its contribution and so far we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109587	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associates. The minister initially said more or less everything that would concern this law. We in HNS have a focus on certain things that are regulated by this law, so let me start over, noting that the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will accept this law, the proposal of this law in the first reading. The right to access information is an important means of ensuring the rule of law and good governance of all levels of public authorities. The participation of citizens in decision-making and the right to oversee public authorities has become a democratic standard. In 2003, the first Law on the right to access information was passed. Strengthening transparency in public governance is also seen through the adoption of a new Law on the right to access information from 2013. The law lays down the provisions of Directive 98 of 2003. The European Community and the re-use of public sector information in order to ensure that the principle of transparency of free access to information is achieved. The law lays down the Commissioner for Information as an independent state body for the protection, monitoring and promotion of the right to access information, and its function is strengthened by the introduction of the possibility of infringing and directly imposing sanctions in the legal cases prescribed. The public authority's obligation to carry out consultations with the public concerned has been established when making laws, sublegislative regulations and acts affecting citizens' interests, longer deadlines have been set in favour of applicants for access to information, and it is specified in detail which information is required by the public authorities on their websites. The increased public interest in access to information has shown that some legal provisions are too broadly defined or are incorrectly interpreted as subject to legal obligations by bodies which should not be burdened by this because there is no public interest, while on the other hand, controls between the bodies that should be the bonds of the law. It is necessary to strengthen the quality of access in solving requests for access to information and re-use of information, encourage awareness of the need and practice of proactive publication as many information as possible regarding work, organisation, decision-making of public authorities, and the exercise of the rights of citizens and public services, in particular public registers and data that citizens and the private sector can use to create a new social value. Public administration information has considerable economic potential, therefore Directive 98/2003, and Directive 37/2013 regulates the issues of using public administration information in a way that ensures the creation of public administration information-based products and facilitates cross-border use of information and enables competition on the European market. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on access to information is proposing to implement the directive from 26 June 2013 to ensure the availability of data for re-use and to extend the possibility of using open data by private sector and civil society citizens. The legal arrangements for the registration of exclusive reuse rights will establish monitoring and supervision of the establishment of specific exclusive rights for the use of data, reducing the possibility of abuse and establishing good practice. We in the HNS view Liberal Democrats as the right to access information on the rights established by the development of democratic states and regulated by a special law, so Croatia is also classified in this order of states. In some countries including Croatia, access to information is also a constitutional right. In addition to the Croatian Constitution, the right to access information is also protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Under the law, every natural and legal person is a user of information rights and has the right to obtain and request information. Users, citizens, businesses, civil society associations may request any information they possess, which they have or which is supervised by the public authority. in general, all information by public authorities is publicly available and must be made available to all. The public authorities shall also be obliged to publish information regularly when there is no specific request. Access to information may only be restricted in exceptional cases and in the manner prescribed by law. The means of public interest and proportionality may be suspended by the law prescribed for the public publication of information if the test establishes that there is an important public interest to be made public. Unfortunately, certain public authorities have not yet understood or have not accepted or have not been teamed up to implement the Law on the right to access information. The greatest evil of any country is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes to the surface the public, people, events and phenomena that symbolise quasi success, and it is only about the most Jordanian con men and thieves who are unable to function in order to create equal laws in an orderly environment. Corruption induces unfairness and injustice and is the cornerstone of devastating phenomena in society that promote the inviolability of fair life, personal education, honest work and fair entrepreneurship in public. Corruption destroys society, it destroys all values and sets up lawlessness, promotes privileges, values progress without effort, humiliates work, degrades knowledge, rapes regularity, mocks honesty. Corruption is created and can occur exclusively in the country, i.e. through the relations of citizens and business entities with the state. It is established in state institutions and state-related companies. There is a phenomenon that ultimately some entrepreneurs would survive and survive simply forced to accept, and many individuals and entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities become prone to it. Fighting corruption is one of the permanent tasks of all in all spheres and at all levels of society. The special obligation of our politicians, especially parliamentary representatives, to indicate any small or large, smallest or greatest form of corruption and even the very suspicion of corruption. The right to access information is one of the tools to combat this devastating evil. The real value of the right to access information is the responsible authority against those for whom there are, citizens and citizens. Each government performs the tasks entrusted to it by its citizens, every institution and every administration serves its citizens. Therefore, anything treated from the budget, all businesses and anything that is a service in the public services and institutions, and services are paid by taxpayers or citizens and citizens, must be subject to investigation, questioning, evaluation and evaluation. Moreover, today's modern leadership... should be fully open to the public and to the citizens. Today's modern state needs to demystify as much as possible as possible there. Today, unfortunately, in public, they induce unquality surface media that have managed to trivialise public space to grotesqueness, which is too little about the value of politics and too much about divine relations for politicians. Every smart modern government wants as much as possible to involve citizens in managing or deciding and adopting laws and regulations. As a result, every modern state promotes a strong development of civil society that is increasingly participating in all processes in the state and society. Contemporary state leadership is an open state that expects and allows its citizens to participate in all processes after the elections, even after the elections, to question those for whom they have or have not voted. Contemporary governance enables its citizens to directly or indirectly assist in the development and promotion of the entire society at all levels. In this, citizens must feel comfortable and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions, that they have the full right to seek and demand from those who are currently in power to lead their country with increased attention, special care and to care for the institutions and management of processes in the state and society. One of the tools that makes it possible to question but to examine the correct participation of citizens of civil society entrepreneurs is the Law on the right to access information. As I said at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats Club will accept the proposal of this law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109589	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109590	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. We have almost 2 years to apply the Law on the right to access information. We have almost two years ahead of us in which we were able to assess what was good in law, which is wrong in law. Personally, we, too, think that the Law on the right to access information has been a serious step, that it has improved this democratic right and that the level of access to information in the Republic of Croatia has raised to a level well above the European Union average. However, these two years have shown that certain things need to be changed in the law. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act has just been established on the basis of 2 years of experience in practice, of course, and on the basis of an amendment to the Directive to be implemented. In this context, I will talk about what is good in this law, which is why I should support it, which is why this law represents a step forward but at the same time I have to point out certain things that we hold that the proponent would have to do until the second reading if he didn't already correct them and then at least seriously consider and explain why he decides for such solutions. What should be commended, of course, and in the first place the implementation of the directive, further full emancipation of the Information Commissioner's Office by the Personal Data Protection Agency. I must point out that in these 2 years, or a year and a half since its appointment, it has shown that the creation of an information commissioner's office has been a full hit and that we have received another body that shows by its work that Croatia and the right to access information can go forward. And despite what we hear as a criticism of the opposition, we are not angry with the Commissioner, however, but we thank her for her criticism because it was this criticism and was the reason why we created an independent body that would allow the entire society to move forward with its independent work. Furthermore, what is particularly good in this law is regulation of the reuse of information, regulation of publication, i.e. incentivising, above all, the publication of information on websites which then lead to the fact that individual requests for access to information become and unnecessary because it is important that as much information as possible be made public at the beginning. And I would particularly like to point out the fact that this law has regulated something that has been missed in the adoption of the Law itself on the right to access information, which is a matter of chicing the application, i.e. the abuse of the right to access information. I thought not to talk too much about it because the minister in the opening statement very clearly explained why this solution is here but because I would say unargumented remarks I have to stay here for a few moments. The issue of sanctioning the chicane setting of applications is regulated almost in all comparative laws that regulate the right to access information. 20 Member States of the European Union have it, Croatia has not had it which led to the situation that, for example, in a small Istrian municipality, the same municipality receives over 200 requests for access to information and not such information that could be published on the Internet but rather very concrete information that led to the fact that this small municipality with only a few employees must have one person in full time who does nothing but respond to requests for access to information. It is not that the public wants to know, but it is that one person is terrorizing the entire community through his own actions, which is why economic damage arises for both the public and the public. We've arranged it in a way that such demands can be denied. And in order to ensure transparency of this and to ensure that this right of refusal is not misused, of course, we have, above all, a second-degree body in the form of a Commissioner for Information and then, of course, an administrative court that will decide on any such individual request if there is a need. Our solution is based first and foremost on how it was founded in the case of the Republic of Slovenia who had the same situation where it appeared very quickly after the initial blow of the complaint that the solution is good and that after some time of stalking in practice can work very well and that no one's right will be denied, however, because municipalities, cities, public authorities will not be burdened by such chicane demands will be able to answer more quickly and efficiently those citizens who really have the need for certain information that public authorities hold. However, if it were not all in a positive tone, this law has certain shortcomings, we might also call them serious which we hold necessary as I said to correct or at least further explain until the second reading. First and foremost issue of subsidiary law enforcement. We consider an alternative solution to be unacceptable or far worse than what is proposed in the very text of the law because, first of all, this law is into Croatian law and not only this directive but earlier directives are introduced, i.e. the provisions of European law are introduced. We all know that European law is governed by the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, we all know that the rules which are notified in the Croatian legal order of the Directive are published on the European Union's pages and are not allowed, it is not acceptable to allow the derrogation of the rules transposing the law of the European Union into the Croatian legal order, and in particular we hold that it is not acceptable to provide for such a standard as is necessary in an alternative solution to this law, that the derogation of the law on the right to access information can be done by means of a regulation. When we speak the word regulation, the regulation means every general act, sublaw, regulation, etc., not just the law. If we are talking about the possible derivation of the application of this law, then it should be possible only by law but then we should know each such law should be directed or notified to the European Commission in order to assess whether we continue to comply with the directive, or whether European law continues to be transposed in our legal order as provided for by the directives that are in this law, or whether this law is in our legal order. Furthermore, and it is related to this, it is a matter of sublegal acts. They must certainly be subject to consultation with the interested public, and even when they are not state bodies in terms of ministries, units of local self-government, and all other agencies, and we believe that this solution should be considered particularly well because some of these agencies are taking very serious acts, not to speak like this but to say specifically. It's both HERA and HANFA, etc. and their sublegislative acts should, in any event, be subject to consultation with the interested public in order for everyone to know in advance and, of course, to correct the proposals through this consultation. And finally, the issue of public procurement data. We have already spoken to the Committee about the fact that the publication on the website of the National Journals is a public publication, but let us note that certain segments of these pages, especially those relating to public procurement, can be accessed after previous user registration, but it also raises the question of the possibility of finding such data because, look, looking for something on the pages of the National Journals is not the easiest thing to do. It's the same thing to talk about. That search engine is not the most reliable, not to go into technical details now. The fact is that some data are not even published there, and here we are talking primarily about baffled public procurements that are often the subject of the greatest abuses in certain local self-government units. If these data are published on the public authorities' websites, and all public authorities have to have websites available today, then the public, and I'm not just talking about citizens, but it's a lot easier for journalists to find such information and then, if necessary, publish them, and I think we have nothing to fear about. In short, as I have already stated at the outset, the bill really goes in the right direction. This is a serious improvement, but certain things should be corrected and the SDP advocates' club will support this law, but it will also ask the proposing to consider these criticisms, I would say the serious criticisms we have addressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109591	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Freedom of information, and thus the right to be made available to the information available by public authorities, also find their source in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, on the Convention on the right to access to information, because openness and public authorities are one of the basic preconditions of modern society, democratic and good governance. Today, the governments of all democratic states are forced to provide more and more information. Let's remember, just a little over 15 years actually even less than 15 years that we did step up and step forward, especially on this plan, at a time when we couldn't dream of such a law because the law was first passed right during the 2003 coalition government. Until then, the questioning of authorities was considered almost an attack on the government itself, an almost high treasonous act. This was the time, it did not happen again, when it was public secret, and what was supposed to be secret was generally public because the services that were in charge of secrecy for others to show or deunciate, the political reckoning therefore made their own information or factory information public. Let's just mention a reporter and a report, a medical report, so it was fate. So in this context and in this one continuity when we have changed and promoted the law, it is certainly necessary to see this bill that I see first and foremost as a single improvement, a significant improvement above all in the affirmation of politics as an anti-corruption law, as the law that stands first on the defender of democratic power because each authority is suspicious. She's always obliged to explain her actions. When it does so publicly, without subsequent questioning in the very process of making the draft laws or decisions made on a daily basis, when it does so publicly, when it does so in a transparent manner, the public is also dying. In the end, it also prevents some unwanted behaviour that a colleague from the HNS has also spoken about, seeing this also, seeing in such a bill an anti-corruption law. So, just at first sight, it seems that the right to access information is somehow in conflict with all those and the aspirations they want to abuse, the attempts when the right to access information is intended to be misused. When it is intended to be misused, it is no longer the right, for every right being misused is wrong. I'll just quote the provision of article 1000. The General Civil Code, and later all our individual laws that spoke of certain rights as fundamental to our laws, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on the Procedural Procedures, speak of the repression of the abuse of rights, and thus, the old OGZ says literally, "I am not even entitled to serve the law of the law, but only to others at harm and boredom." Therefore, this example, which the counterpart Grbin, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, is, and many are not speaking for good, open authorities, but precisely to defocus and remove power from the path of its basic task of serving citizens to comply with certain provisions that are required by the law at the end of the day by those of their own decision. And that's what needs to be done, something like that has to be prevented and the law also finds solutions. But here's to not just saying what's right, I agree with those who have already made an observation, and that's what GONG himself points to. We still have at least a suspicion and as soon as there is such a public conversation then it is, whether it is justified or not, whether you are correct or not, the public mood is saying that such actions and behaviours should be even more open. I'm talking about public procurement procedures. The name of the public procurement itself says that it must be public from the beginning to the end. Whoever's doing business with the state he has to be willing to do anything about that firm at any time when he's acting as a natural person or as a legal person to know. So, not only those components that are highlighted in the tender, but everything about this firm who wants to do business with the state and who wants to get that job. That's why I think and here's the minister to see what's there for transparency, improvement and this problem through law, through the application of the Information Access Law can contribute and can improve. I would also like to point out that, until the second reading, these very things that are now highlighted can be improved, so not only in public procurement, but in all those procedures that follow after the law is passed. That's also what GONG warns about. We've all agreed on boards. Often, the law gives the minister the authority to adopt a sublegal act in order for a law that has been fairly generalised to be enforceable in certain segments and it is necessary to adopt sublegal acts. Because some things can't be in the law, because life is complicated and the charred, the basic provisions are given, it was necessary to pass a sublegal act. Often such sublegal acts we have until recently had such great problems that the sublegal acts were not in accordance, not only with the law, because it does not question the Constitutional Court itself, but contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, we have nothing to hide and such a single procedure especially when given certain rights to authorities who can achieve, where there are several competitors, that even such actions do not have to be all, some are not the same weights and the same nature. It can be encrypted by one general provision, so what's interesting is in sublegal acts, because sometimes sublegal acts are more important than the law itself. So in such a way, a government that has nothing to hide does not fear its citizens because it seems open. Thus, in such a way and when wrongs can be done in time and things can be improved. Therefore, here is my support for this debate, including my support for the amendment law and the amendments to the Law on the right to access information with the belief that these remarks will be seriously considered and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109593	The replica was reported by the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109594	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, will this law allow, for example, a parliamentary representative to see into all information concerning the economic affairs of the state with legal and other natural persons. In particular about the terms of the Zagreb Airport concession, the terms of the Zagreb – Macelj highway concession, about something the state-owned company had concluded and under which terms the contract was in charge and concluded. Will it be possible to get away with it being a business secret or that another law regulates it, but all the most important information is being disabled. How many times has there been a case of an attorney's question being asked and not answering a parliamentary question? If that law is going to be here, I specifically asked a question about the sale of gold to which there is no six months of answers. How? Will that law allow such things to finally be answered? If we're in favour of nothing, and I don't think there should be anything to be kept secret about what is being signed on behalf of the state and the economic impact on the budget and on all citizens, and that is still, and even if this law is to be passed, it will be impossible for everyone and even for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109595	Replication response, respected Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109596	You were a respected colleague of Maric's, and in the previous meeting of the Parliament when Minister Shuker, at the time he was Minister of Finance, asked for the data, and I think not even the representatives but the media were looking for, the journalists asked, and then that list seemed to me "Leeder" told me in a few extensions that the finance minister did not give the information about who the concessionaries were for some of me banal things, much more important than what you're writing about today. I believe, we will see what the final law will be, so the business secret must be when it is strictly tied to the security of the country, business and some other foreign competitors. It's the only thing, not some other stuff, in my opinion. Now we're gonna see how it's gonna be stabilized, and I believe and appeal to be as open as possible. And I think it implies, I forgot to say and miss to say in my debate, I think it doesn't even matter, but here's the one that fits your line I can point out that some things are being understood. Not the one you're talking about, but let's say a matter of criminal proceedings, a matter of country security. It must be a secret in the interest, in the public interest it must be a secret. But today we have such situations that someone asks a presumptive defendant against whom the State's Attorney has the right to covert investigations until he brings a solution to the question, please answer me whether I'm being investigated or not. So obviously someone's making a joke out of the state. And we have to stop that. So there are such potential culprits who may know more that they are guilty than only the State's Attorney's Office and the nicely dead cold ones ask the State's Attorney's Office such questions and further prolong them in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109597	We're continuing an individual debate, registered with the esteemed Mirella Holly. However, she is not here, so I give the word to the esteemed Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109598	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will also support this bill. As advocates, I am always pleased when we pass the laws in two readings, even those that in most or less comply with European directives. On the one hand, this gives us the opportunity to perhaps have a better impact on the text of the law itself, and finally we have a better law on the person who proposes to hear different opinions. When we brought the first ZPPI here in 2003 I remember this debate a few representatives discussed and all of us who discussed it were actually trying to point out that in modern societies the right to access information in some theorists is even referred to as a special human right, that is, when it comes to the human rights of the new generation then we also talk about the right to access information. The right to access information within the meaning of this law, which is intended for a citizen in that sense, should not be confused with the rights to access information by specific groups of citizens in terms of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have the right to all information in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and other regulations, in terms of media that have the right to access certain information under some of their specific laws and other institutes. This law is primarily intended for citizens in the most general, fundamental sense and aims at the openness of the public authority. And what's mostly being discussed is what the public authorities are, which is information and what are the restrictions actually for the very application of information. When we talk about this particular law not to repeat what my colleagues said, I'd just like to say my point. So, I am about Article 1 for that initial variant of the non-alternative variant, and I am certainly about the fact that public procurement data is also being published at public authorities' network stations. Indeed, these are important information in our system which is highly doubtful and more or less justified in public procurement procedures, and it is important that the information on public procurement is as accessible as possible, that the exception you have unless it is published in the electronic register is actually removed, which is an obligation under one other law, and that we commit to the public authorities' network pages. What I've actually reported for my individual discussion is to point out, and then I suggest one more step further in a part of the law that we haven't had so far and which I'm assessing is actually very important in this concept of open authority and the availability of information. First, it's great that you finally define in this law an open form, an open standard, an open data portal, etc. And then especially regarding the new Article 28, which is introduced to say so or to be introduced into the law of Article 14 of these amendments and additions where practical solutions for the reuse of information are actually discussed. It is a very interesting name of the article itself, a lot of ingenuity was needed to formulate it and it is quite a good formulation that regulates that public authorities are obliged in an easily searchable way to publish the information available for re-use together with... data in readable and open form in accordance with open standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It really seems to me to be the most concrete, greatest step that we will have in terms of the right to access information if we look at the whole process from the past 12 years how many laws we have in application. So far, we have somehow learned more or less from the public authorities to publish their acts, laws and so on, and this step relating to the re-application of information specifically to the open code is something that is new and it seems to me that this re-use of information is actually the area where we still need to work the most and where we actually have the most space, which is actually the most useful to the citizens. Because it prevents the whole administrative process of seeking access to information and so on, it actually significantly shortens it. What is particularly interesting is the paragraph 4 of that law, where you say that in order to encourage and facilitate the reuse of library information, including libraries in higher education institutions, museums, state archives are required by law to publish information on which they have intellectual property rights. It's okay and I'm asking you to think about another alternative. It's about science institutes and university in general. There is, in many international organisations, an initiative for open access to scientific information. UNESCO's like the UN's agency is one of to say the feather in that, they even have something they call open scientific information, so open access to scientific information as a special project. Even in June 2012, the Paris Declaration on Open Access to Educational Resources was signed and we, as the Republic of Croatia, seem to have signed that declaration. The European Commission, within the framework of the Europe 20-20 strategy, underlines the importance of greater availability of scientific information and publications. In Croatia, we have a lot of SRCE working on this as a university computer centre. Within the framework of the SRCE, the portal of scientific journals in the Republic of Croatia also works for all those who deal with the famous hamster, but it seems to me that a step further should be taken. In fact, it has been shown that the open access initiative to scientific data is strong in developed countries and there is a correlation between the development of the state to say so and open access to scientific information. In particular, there is something in the U.S. called Public Access to Science ex therefore literally a law that speaks about public access to scientific research and that is something I would like to see in Croatia that explicitly says that scientific projects financed from the state budget, so those scientific projects financed by public money and all the data collected through these scientific projects are therefore all that is financed by public money is mandatory to publish both the works and the results of research on open-air news platforms or some kind of web site. We in the Republic of Croatia who have really limited resources for everyone and then so on for science and scientific research why not, otherwise, it's quite a controversial topic in our scientific community, why don't we make a commitment when as a state we pay to some scientist or scientist or some scientific institute or university research to simply run naked unprocessed data and to be used by another scientist or other scientist. We do not enter the right neither intellectual property nor copyright over what knowledge is, but what authorial scientific works and the like. But we are actually cutting down sometimes time and money for double funding projects for which it is necessary. You have opened the door to this article on the 28th, and you have made a commitment to libraries, archives and museums. I ask you to also consider scientific institutes and in general scientific organisations that you may be talking to them until the second reading, to talk to the SRCE, there is this initiative in the SRC, it seems to me that a working group in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports dealing with the establishment of a public policy of access, open access to scientific information exists, and that is something that would be in the spirit of this law and in general in the spirit of an open power partnership to say so on the one hand, but also on the other hand the rational use of public resources that exist for scientific research which can then be in the spirit of re-application of information already funded by public money available to all others. It is a principle that we try to implement more or less through many laws, but we have already implemented more or less, but it seems to me that there is room for such a thing more than I have said about it and international documents that are still not binding, but these are very clear trends that exist with the right to access information. Here I hope this isn't too big a step. I insist, of course, that we go to him with our throats into strawberries until we're ready for it, but I think that it is also necessary to open a public debate and debate with the institutions and as we have for the past 10 and more years made aware of the right to access information in terms of those public institutions in the classical sense of the public authority that we should now actually speak and raise awareness of access to information and re-use of information among all those who possess information that has come in one way or another funded by public money, because it is, in fact, if we all as citizens finance something then I think we have every right to use that information. In conclusion, I also support the provisions of this law relating to what is logical to say, asking for the right to access information. I think there's a good balance between the practices we've had and not challenging the right to access information as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109599	We have two replicas. First respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109600	Thank you very much. Comrade Lugaric, I agree that these changes and additions are a certain improvement. But it's about the law of law. If it is a law on the right to something, then I think it is not a good solution that there are no sanctions appropriate and that there is a possible situation in which an institution that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament does not want and will not provide information on the height of the head of the institution's salary and that there are no sanctions. This must be recognised by the legislator by such an illogicality and must find a legal framework that such illogicalities do not exist. Says colleague Anticevic, something less important, something more important. That's true, but I can't agree that it doesn't matter how much budget money is spent, that it doesn't matter how much the official has paid, that it doesn't matter under what conditions concessions are concluded, that it doesn't matter if anyone pays the concession or doesn't pay, that it doesn't matter if someone has 30 thousand kuna and that another state subsidises the interest on his private loan? What if you or any of us state subsidized a credit to a business bank for all interest above 3%? And we mustn't even know who's given it to, so we'd be publicly seduced if it existed in the Parliament or if we told some head of state, but when they do it in some institutions, we shouldn't even know who's doing it. I think that the legislator must recognize such problems and install it into the law that what is being spent on behalf of the state must be known how to spend and sanctions that do not comply with the legal provisions. And we can have law on law and that right is actually disabled in key situations. That's what I'm talking about regardless of the division when the government changes or doesn't change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109601	The replica corresponds to Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109602	It is a shame that you did not read the whole law, as Article 61 and Article 62 set fines for the non-application of this law. In particular, Article 61 of the fines from 20 to 100 thousand kunas will be fined for a violation of the body of the public authority which makes it impossible to restrict the right then it shall be called upon to what and how. Article 62 of that same thing. Therefore, Article 61 and Article 62 define penalties for not applying this law only do not change now, so you do not have it in these articles, but it exists in the law. However, what you are talking about is exactly what I have warned, so these problems you are talking about are not regulated by the right to access information, nor by the Parliament, when asking for information that you are talking about, has not even called for access to information, but has called for some kind of authority, its Rules of Procedure, and so on. So let us not interfere with the right to access the information that is achieved through a specific request, through a special administrative procedure which then has sanctions with some other procedures in which we can discuss whether or not they are optimally resolved, but it is simply not that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109603	Second replica of the respected Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lugaric, you are right when you say that we as advocates have a completely different procedure when we ask questions. However, it is equally inadmissible that our questions are not answered by the public authorities or by the government at all and are not answered at all. More than a year on some questions such as whether or not we can find out how much they spend on official cards, who they travel to and whose money they spend on. As for the right to access information and our citizens, so what do you think their message is when they hear from this side if they can't get some information about how we're going to tremendously empower them to use this very tool at their disposal. However, from your benches and colleagues Anticevic and colleagues, Grbin warned that this package does not need a bow so far. He doesn't need the bow because it's badly packed and he needs a change. And so the praises of the new ones that we needed to be presented under the cover of compliance with the directive are not true. This is about almost 30 articles that are being changed. I believe that you listened very carefully to what I said on behalf of the club and also the whole series of objections from NGOs, the HND and others who participated in the debate with the interested public say exactly the opposite of what you're saying, that it is not good in this way to change the law that will reverse us, which you said a few years ago is great and that it will improve all this. So please talk about the real state. And just one more comparison, as regards the Commissioner for Information in neighbouring Slovenia, he has three times more financial resources so he can be more independent and independent in his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109605	The replica corresponds to the respected Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109606	I listened to you honorably, and I was glad that you then said on behalf of the club what your concrete suggestions were regarding those articles and those solutions that you disagree with. If you can't get some information as a representative, I can't advise you on a replica like this now, you can't get a representative using the institutes you have in your hands as a representative, so try as a citizen through the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109607	I was otherwise looking for something as a citizen because I didn't want to be a minister of an institution, could it have been understood as a pressure on the institution. It concerns the DIP and the Commissioner for Information on the action of the AZOP, which is the topic that will be tomorrow. Let's settle a fundamental misunderstanding. This is a law implementing the directive, but it's not the only thing in this law, so you can't say it's a cover directive. We've made it clear what's in the directive, and what's the program plus, that chain pack you said. And the very fact that we did not use the EU to go through an emergency procedure without a vote and the debate shows that we did not need that bow in this first reading, so I would ask you to ease your view that we have done something under the cover of the directive. On the contrary, so something is a directive, and something that has been shown to change over the past few years. There is a package of 3+1 things to be considered specifically in the second reading. One alternative is Article 1(3) of the subsidiarity application of these laws in relation to other laws. It is the second question of regulations or sublegal acts whether public consultation is mandatory for them. The third question is what range of data in public procurement and the fourth question is this chicanning. And these are three questions that will likely be four questions of which three will likely be changed for a second reading, but it is good to discuss them. I am also not quite inclined to comment on NGOs that there was something not in public consultation, so it is subsequently changed right now that it takes as something which is a very great sin because then we do not need the consent of the ministries at all and we do not need the Parliament. Then what the NGOs said is we don't need the Parliament, but let's bring it back in three months, and then we'll bring it back again. I am, of course, prone to cooperation with NGOs, civil society and for a long time, to contact them, but in the end, you have to know who decides and who answers, and that's not them. Anyone who wants to run the country should run in the elections and then they'll be the government, and we'll be civil society, and then we'll do the same thing, so these are very clearly divided roles. As regards Article 1 he came as a proposal from one of the ministries and wanted to test their proposal in the Croatian Parliament, we put it as an alternative in Article 1 and I see that neither they were overly broken away from the alternative to the defence and since they all objected to it they would probably not be in the new bill. As far as sublegal acts are concerned, I understand the desire and need to conduct a consultation with the interested public, and some provision will probably be put in place for sublegal acts, but we have a rule of law for 30 days now. So if something's in general it's usually 30 days and it can be shorter and it can be a little longer. And it should be assessed from case to case when it is justified to shorten that time limit. For example, I do not even remember consulting an interested public on a law that, frozen the course of the Swiss franc, although, was at a telephone session, sent to the Parliament and voted in a very fast procedure. It was, it was rated as something that was justified, and so were some other things. But as a rule, I agree that it should be good for the rules to be given for consultation with the interested public. For example, it's personal to me as a citizen, when we were already going to those categories in replicas, I'm sorry that the regulation introduced the island's identity card wasn't in consultation with the interested public because... People. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you see that it is not always possible to react in time because there was some time limit when it should be brought etc.. But as a rule, we will try to ease that provision to satisfy that requirement. As far as public procurement data is concerned, we will consider once again with the resolution ministry, so to the Ministry of Economy and with the Commissioner for Information which set of data is needed to be published in which place because how well I know the process so all the data is published is just a matter of which place. But I'm sure when it's all in one place, it's better anyway. Now, no state bodies that have several hundred purchases or several thousand purchases would be simply buried and could simply not physically carry out their obligations under the law then it is not wise to impose on them because for any failure to comply with the obligation of the law there may be a sanction that may be too difficult in relation to a truly subjective inability to do something. And if that's why you're hiding, it's not good anymore. And as far as the chicanous provisions are concerned, the provisions on chicane, the abuse of rights will remain in the law because most of the European Union states have it, I don't think it has four or five. In practice, this has proved to be necessary. So I believe that then we will have your abstention in the first reading that it will be that one drop that will pour a glass to support the bill. Well, then I think, here, that's the point. As for the participation of the Commissioner for Information, she participated in all working groups in the ministry for draft legislation. It was also consulted in the process of agreeing within the ministry's opinion. Not all proposals have been accepted. But again, I am a supporter of independent bodies because they are independent bodies and not those who decide. So they are tasked with implementing the law, pointing to something that needs to be changed but not that now suddenly they become legislators and the Parliament is just a mailbox where those to whom their proposals should be addressed would be appropriate. By the way, I'm glad that here's the Commissioner for Information has been able to impose herself for two years as a good correction of the work and transparency of the government, I mean here and on the state and local authorities because there were certain skeptics from the HDZ when the institute was introduced at all, you called it the Kukuriku Commissioner. And yet it turns out that the body that proved to be respectable in practice, which is what I'm glad to see, will still have support. And here, this is it, for a second reading I believe the same until the end of this session Parliament that this law will go into another reading with these corrections and improvements that I have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109608	Thank you. The replica was reported by the esteemed Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, yes, the Commissioner for Information has indeed corned, you will remember. You didn't give her the money because she couldn't work and then you found the money. So it was her scream and cry out for help which was then answered and then she went public, I'd say. But let's go back to what you said. In any event, sublaws should be made available to the public and should be consulted with the public concerned. But I will remind you, Minister, when you defended the adoption of a new law, we were talking about something we're not even talking about right now, which is a proactive disclosure of information. We can't even get retroactive information, let alone expect something proactive, so I will also have to remind this occasion that we can't get information about what we've been looking for and it's about Croatian broadcasting that I'm not opening this issue again and on this subject. So you finally mentioned the bodies of the public authorities and actually a way of punishing them in some way. It is not that we will only impose financial sanctions on the bodies of the public authorities that exist but in law, it is that public authorities simply publish that information so that it does not occur at all. All of what we have said in our remarks we have also spoken in part of the remarks which are different and NGOs and judges of the Constitutional Court and we have seen some of the pharmaceutical activities etc., made as observations on these changes. Which does not mean that a minister can be smarter or that someone can point to something that you have not seen, and that is the intention of a second reading not only to say that it is not good but to try to correct what we consider to be bad in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109610	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109611	So as far as HRT's salary data are concerned, there is a clear procedure, so any citizen can request that information. If the director of the HRT calls for certain laws to prevent him from making that information that he will make a solution and that solution, then in court, there is a court procedure which can be annulled and ordered him to give that information. Therefore, the court is the one, not the Parliament, who can tell him that he has to give that information. No matter what, then, the Assembly can replace him...... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That goes for AZOP tomorrow, too. So the Parliament can replace but cannot change the solution or undo it. He can change the law and say they have to. As far as these other proposals are concerned, I said, of these four main challenges, I think three proposals are acceptable, and it's not like we haven't seen anything. However, of these four proposals, three were not even in the public debate, but were put into the law on the proposal of other bodies of the state administration that meet some things more, and we decided to listen to and present them on behalf of the representatives and receive all the criticism on their behalf so that here we can say so, and when we return home then we will face them with suggestions and say that we will think carefully that the second time we do not expose ourselves to unnecessary criticism, and those who need it will defend it as long as it is, not exactly, until the first drop of blood, so to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109612	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109613	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 832. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and 4 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109614	And we'll discuss another point. - Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Minister of Management Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109615	It is about the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest. The basis for this decision is the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. The list sets out the Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this proposal harmonises the organisational changes that have occurred since or before the adoption. The latest amendments to the decision, the ones established in the meantime or the ones deemed to be on this list, and so far have not been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109616	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, Grubisic and Cain reported. They're gone. In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109617	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. I noticed that in the hall we are always late in the afternoon, in the evening, us who are in the Parliament a little longer, and these juniors and young men and young girls are missing something but good. ... They've got better things to do, say colleagues, Ingrid. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's what they say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, smart people. So, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to look back on this first part of the decision where you correct the marks, you add seats instead of titles. It is good that, for the first time, we have received a set of materials and correspondence between your ministry and the government by preparing this law, it is quite unusual, but I realized from this transcript that, for example, in the Ministry of Tourism, they did not understand what this decision is for, so they suggested that it, the decision and the list of non-profit users' companies and agencies, was extended to those of the Law on State Property Management and that those companies were included so that they could obviously propose their own people, businesses or legal persons of strategic and special interest. So this is a decision that defines a list of state interest, not a strategic and special one, because that law provides for the Government to appoint its representatives to the congregations of companies, and this is about administrative and supervisory bodies. But in addition to this commendable information that some ministries do not know Croatian laws, I opened the problem of the minister in the last part of the proposal for a decision that introduces 8 new institutions that enter the list of this decision for the first time, which is the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the Croatian Institute for Standards, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, the Croatian Accreditation Agency, the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, the Advisory Service and the Croatian Institute for Physical Development. I don't mind if they're in this decision, that's good, but there are two other problems. By way of derogation from Article 14(1) of the basic The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is prescribed that officials cannot be members of administrative and supervisory bodies, except those involved in this decision by the Assembly, at the most in two administrative or supervisory bodies, and by analysis I have established that some of these institutions are already in the administrative and supervisory bodies appointed officials. Well, let's take it in a row. Investment and Competitiveness Agency. In the Governing Council of these agencies are all government officials, so Ivan Vrdoljak, Branko Grčić, Boris Lalovac, Gordan Maras, Anka Mrak-Taritaš, Orsat Miljenić, Robert Pende, Josko Klisović and Tomislav Radoš. As a result, the Government appointed them as administrative councils without the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness being included in Parliament's decision and included in the list where they can be named. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, I have names but I couldn't tell from the name if any of the state officials were there. The Croatian Bureau of Standards has also appointed members of the Governing Council. I'm not sure there are government officials from the list of names. A hydrocarbon agency named Ivan Vrdoljak, if I am not mistaken, is Minister and Sabina Skrtic, who was deputy minister if I am not wrong at the time of appointment. And speaking of these names, the minister said he was listening, he might be able to answer my doubts. I now question whether these people are in conflict of interest all the time from the day of appointment to the day of completion of this decision. But there's more. The previous point discussed the right to the availability of information and talked a lot about so-called. The chicane demands, so when someone hangs, they ask for some information. And I was preparing for this debate to take a look at the compositions of the boards of directors and supervisory boards, and I gave the associate a request that he check on their web pages the members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards. So I can tell you that the Agency for Hydrocarbons on its websites has no published members of the Governing Council, have not been published. The Croatian accreditation agency does not have the publication of administrative bodies on its websites and the names I read to you I came from the National Journals, because I did not expose myself to the risk that my associate must submit a chicanous request to obtain information about who are members of administrative or supervisory bodies. Let's move on. Energy sector and investment monitoring centre. No members of the Supervisory Board have been published. We will pass the law, change the law, we will do everything, but so important state institutions have not publicly published members of their administrative or supervisory bodies. Now with this Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, I am reading again and asking if anyone will be able to help me with the members of the Management Board of Ante Ramljak, Dubravko Ponoš, Marko Lončarević are vice presidents and Boris Lalovac, Ivo Vrdoljak. These are two other state officials already appointed to the Supervisory Board, and the centre is not listed in this decision. Advisory Service, Administrative Council of Davorka Hajduković, Assistant Minister, Zoran Vasic, Assistant Minister, Domagoj Križaj, Assistant Minister appointed to the Administrative Council of Advisory Services without the advisory service being included in the list of state interests before that. The Croatian Institute for Physical Development, reading names again, is not sure, and therefore I will not read the names, whether or not there are state officials among them. Now I ask her, is it possible that the government has put the members of the government of the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Minister and Assistant Ministers in the administrative and supervisory bodies in conflict of interest? In order to resolve that doubt, I will apply these days against them to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and seek their justice. Because it is unacceptable for any laws, any different decisions and decisions of the Government in administrative and supervisory bodies to be referred to as people in those institutions that the Parliament did not put into that decision. And I'm sorry to have to say that the abdomens of the renewal of this decision go so slowly that it doesn't matter to anyone, because it's important then, in parallel with the laws of the establishment of these centres, agencies and services, when we legislate that someone in function must be a member of the Governing Council, as is the case with the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, in parallel with this decision. Therefore, the state and state bodies have violated the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, appointed members of administrative and supervisory bodies, past the approval of the Parliament without inclusion in this Decision. But there's more! I remind you again of the provisions of Article 14. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Exceptionally, officials may be members of no more than 2 administrative councils, institutions or supervisory committees. Two. And if you've noticed, I've read one name three times. Agency for Investments and Competitiveness Ivan Vrdoljak, Agency for Hydrocarbons Ivan Vrdoljak, Center for the Monitoring of Energy Sectors and Investments Ivan Vrdoljak and the Minister of Economy writes everywhere. He's already in three, out of the only eight I've been controlling. It therefore violates the second provision of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, as it is appointed by more than 2 administrative or supervisory bodies, institutions, i.e. the beneficiary of the budget or outside the budget users, as the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest requires. So what do we do now? At the moment of this decision's vote by the parliament, they will cease to be in conflict of interest, but by Friday from day of appointment until Friday they are in conflict of interest, regardless of whether they accept and have no right to compensation for their work. It's clearly prescribed by law. They can be appointed without the right to compensation. Why did I trouble you? Tomorrow we will discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Last week we had an incident situation or a situation in the application of that law, but here the problem was produced by the state government. No one but the state authority that has not changed the decision in time, complemented, or which has appointed prematurely, made the choice or appointment of members of the administrative and supervisory authorities. And what message have we sent now? When it comes to conflict of interest, officials may also be a secondary matter. We can appoint them before Parliament changes its decision, and some can be appointed to more than two administrative or supervisory bodies because it will be appointed accordingly. I will apply to the commission not only because of the time last and at this moment of the present, but I want to get a decision from the commission for the future. So if they are declared to have been in conflict of interest, I'm interested in whom the commission will punish, them or the government that has made the appointment contrary to the law. Who broke the law, them or the government? It will be an interesting subject, I'm sure, in front of the commission and a lesson from which the government should draw that decision must be changed when we prescribe by birth laws that someone by function is at the head or member of a governing or supervisory body. This decision is directly applicable from the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and I therefore find it extremely important. And in the meantime, maybe other ministries understand and learn to distinguish companies or entities from state from those of strategic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109618	Replica, the esteemed Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you found something else that would make you happy, I believe the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so another one in a series that we're going to add to that list that's already existed by the ministers who are in conflict of interest, here's something else. However, I'm sorry I couldn't talk about it before, but you and your colleague, Lesar, and we've been asking HRT on several occasions. She's been on this list for years. And when I mention HRT, I consider it a demeaning double Croatian Parliament because HRT informed all media that the salaries are available on HRT sites, so what Croatian Parliament's representatives asked us to do was not delivered to us, but this is how the Croatian Parliament was bypassed and the media was informed that they were not proactive but retroactive and that they published it beautifully on their websites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109620	Replication response, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109621	Thank you very much. My colleagues Glavak forgot to say this before, when I read these names I listed three of them, three institutions, which on their websites do not even have that information about who are members of the administrative or supervisory bodies and that I had to collect the data myself. If a mistake has been derailed somewhere, I will apologize to each and every one of them, but it just shows that we here in the Assembly are often conflicting over some legislative solutions, and after the law is passed, we all forget about their application. That's the case here. We have passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, prescribed that officials may be members of administrative and supervisory bodies, that this decision is taken by the Parliament, and then every 5 years someone remembers that decision and we revise it. And if the information that HRT published on its websites is correct, I would not commend them for that, but I would just say that they finally respected the opinion of the Commissioner for Information and Law that these data must be publicly available. So, I don't know what form they're published in, but it's kind of a start then. And I hope that the state institutions or public authorities will no longer exist in Croatia that do not have such basic data on their websites. Imagine a government website where you don't have a list of government members. That's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109622	In the name of the HDZ Club, the Đuro Popiè will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So we have here before us a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest. I tried to find some kind of credible document on today's valid list of legal persons of special national interest, I found something from the National Journals, and I don't know if it's a final and real list. However, several trends have been seen for several years. So, let me remind you in 2011 there were 63 companies, 97 institutions and 5 extra budget funds on this list. In this list which was valid until this change was and is now still likely to have 54 companies and 169 institutions and 5 extra budget funds. So with these 8 added to this decision, there will be 235 companies, institutions and extra-financial funds. Therefore, the number of companies in this list decreased while the number of institutions increased by 77 so in these four years. Whatever that list of legal persons of particular national interest meant, I thought that this term of special state interest meant something far more important and powerful than that of a conflict of interest, that it was defined somewhere, which is still a state interest to put into some kind of list. I found nothing other than the obligations of course arising from Article 14a that is the link and related to supervisory committees and the very item that says that the Croatian Parliament determines that list and nothing else. We don't, of course, talk about companies of strategic interest, of development interest, so I tried to find out if it existed anywhere. And there's a document that was adopted by the government because the government was considering exactly where these companies are spoken of, and then it's said that companies of particular interest, companies of development importance, there are four, five airports and, say, the Immunological Institute. The government is saying that the Immunological Institute is a company of development. It is also of particular national interest because it is also on this list. As far as companies are concerned, there are several other interesting companies I would say now and let's say Croatia's insurance still stands. I agree it's a company of special state interest but it's privatized and no longer related to the state in that sense as property. Well then there's the INA oil industry, a private company in majority private ownership. Then there's the reference to the Immunological Institute, so let's say Petrochemy, then PLINACRO, then Podravka, underground storage of the Janaf gas. I agree they're all companies of particular national interest. Probably strategic, but these companies under this law have only the meaning of a special state interest in the Law of Conflict of Interest. Does the President of INA have any obligations under this decision now, and it is about the Law of Conflict of Interest. Is someone from Croatia now being controlled by the board of completely people who are out of the state system do they have anything more to do with this? But I don't know if everything Mr. Lesar said about article 14 and this list did we even know what we were talking about? Article 14(1) states that officials cannot be members of the administrative bodies and supervisory boards of commercial companies. This is the case in Article 14(1), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: There is no longer any mention of the exceptional companies. Then why are these companies even on this list, in a decision on the list of legal persons of special state interest? And item 4. The Croatian Parliament shall establish a list of legal persons of special state interest on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What does that have to do with each other now? So the companies here say that officials cannot be members of administrative bodies and supervisory committees, companies regardless of whose ownership they are owned. These are mainly state-owned companies except, mostly state-owned, except for INA and Croatia's insurance now. I said before that I didn't know if this was the last list because I didn't find any list that says this is the last one, it's probably. So we have a problem here now. I'm also asking the government to see if this is in complete contradiction right now and who's going to crucify this? If we are talking about a really special state interest and a list of companies, then let's say what a special state interest is, and I guess in economic terms, we have to talk about what companies represent in this context and if it's only about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and that officials cannot be members of the Supervisory Boards of Commercial Companies, but there is no further extraordinary record of anything here, as far as I am written and can interpret, I am not a lawyer, these items of this law, Article 14. The law of conflict of interest. So, of course, and everything that's been said that already some institutions, the dozens agencies that this government has formed over the past three years have not been updated at all in this decision, but now here at the end of it all come to this list, and now it's not going to fix something, but obviously everything very sloppy, sloppy and superficial as otherwise many things in this administration are happening, and then it's no wonder that these dilemmas and these things are being discovered and, let's say, thanks to the discussions in the late afternoon and already evening hours. Here were a few suggestions, remarks, observations, and then if you hold that there are excuses, please consider it and change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109624	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109625	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this list of legal persons of special state interest is shown here as a purely technical character, but I don't think it should be just technical character and that there should be a minister of the economy with you here. If it's something of particular national interest, then we can't bring it down to a purely technical matter, a record. Then it's more important than that. It would be important to explain, and it's not your job, it's the business of the economy minister, why some companies, legal persons, are of particular national interest, why some are not, and those that exclude themselves are excluded, and those that include why they are involved. Just to read the list without such an explanation makes no sense because if something is of particular state interest, then it deserves special care, then it deserves a special approach, and a special relationship and a special approach deserves and requires a very caring relationship with these entities, to those legal persons. And now how in practice do we treat what we say in a technical sense in the list that is of particular national interest, most important, what we have to pay the most attention to, how? The sub-level is of particular national interest by making a decision to increase the core capital, to buy an foreign society in Slovenia with a production programme that previously shut down and fired thousands of workers on the programme, so that the state will reduce its share to just a miserable 12%. So it's an approach that the company is this legal person of particular state interest to make it less of a state interest inside. Petrochemia, here's an opposite example of a bar at a symbolic level the government has shown that it's interested in the situation in Petrochemia. The truth is that nothing has been done to help this Petrokemia, but at least it is a sign that it will help. It's worth a positive attitude and we're recording it. The Immunological Institute claims to be of particular national interest. So there is no such enemy in Croatia that the Croatian state refers to as the Immunological Institute. We've been more aggressive in destroying the Immunological Institute than destroying enemy soldiers, for years it's been going on and on. And we continue to argue that he is of particular national interest to us, on the contrary, we do not even claim, but only on paper are we technically, or we record and develop, and the relationship is quite different. INA claims to be of particular national interest. Tell me one move we've made to show that it's a legal person of state interest. Everything we've done and done shows we don't care about the INA or the INA workers. The Zagreb-Macelj highway is of special national interest to us and is not owned at all by the Republic of Croatia. He's in a concession from a foreign owner. We're worried it's a great concessionary, so take care of the state. Croatia Insurance private company of special state interest. How to interpret it rather than make it possible for all states to make as much profit as possible to the private owner. So with HAC, so with BINA Istria. And then we get to two banks of Croatia and the Croatian Post Bank. Interestingly, Croatia's bank of special state interest, and for 15 years no one has settled the dispute with former Croatian bank owners, no one has taken any steps to help the bank do business. And the Post Office, we're selling it. So it's of particular national interest, but we'll sell it. Well, isn't that confirmation that we're not interested in her being in state property at all? We've become the official policy of state-of-the-art trade. If the Republic of Croatia had invested state money in the Immunological How much it had given to only one infrastructure trading centre, this Immunological would have been an example of a successful company in Europe not only in Croatia. We finance the trade, we finance the import goods, and on domestic production, we go after the enemy. Such an economic policy will not increase employment, nor will we increase the standard in Croatia, but only will we continue to have on paper which companies are registered as state interest, which they do not. In the meantime, how it is sold will likely be later remembered and deleted from the list of legal persons of special state interest. Someone would have to answer to Mr. Minister for what's on the list, and it's not even owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I don't mean you here because you're only there in technical terms, but here are much more important economic aspects and the economic potential of these legal persons than the mere list that we're being provided here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109626	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We interrupt the session now, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-13-0.u109627	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 832. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and 4 votes against the proposed conclusion.
