ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106499	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all to work. The purified agenda you got, but before we move on to that purified agenda I see my hands in the air. First came the honorary colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106500	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Due to cowardly crosses, hate speech and similar appearances in the Croatian public sphere, I am looking for a break on behalf of the club of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106501	Cresimir Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106502	Thank you very much, Vice President. Because of the extraordinary situation in Slavonia and Baranja i.e. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106503	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106504	On behalf of the club, I'm also looking for a 10-minute break because of the cowardly crosses.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106505	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106506	Well, because of these Split events and the fear that when we don't have bread, we're left without games, I'm also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106507	Here you go, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106508	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106509	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106510	We're looking for a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106511	It's a critter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106512	Also because of this phenomenon, the unloved appearance of the cowardly crosses and I'd say the floods are requesting a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106513	Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106514	On behalf of the DC Club, the Reformist and the New Wave break of 10 minutes is the same for cowardly crosses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106515	Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106516	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I'm looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106517	Vice President Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106518	And the SDP club is looking for a break for the appearance of a swastika on the Man.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106519	We'll continue at 9.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First came the esteemed Igor Coleman. Here you are on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106521	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The reason I'm reporting is that human swastika, but I want to point out at first she's not the main subject I'm going to talk about today. This human swastika is the result of the deep problem that we in the Republic of Croatia have, and it is not a cause and is nothing in itself. The problem that we have colleague Marasovic in this country is that every wall, every fence, every trafostation in the Republic of Croatia has one Ustasha U, one hooky cross or one "For Home Ready" on it and nobody cares about it anymore, no one wipes it, no one cares about it anymore. Every little bit at some public gathering in the Republic of Croatia is rising right, we are surrounded by rhetoric of hatred, impatience based on the differences between us of any kind. We hate each other and act that way and say that, that's the problem we have in this country. The swastika of man is the result of this problem. And in order not to be confused Ustasha U, "For Home Ready" and the cowardly cross are the same, between them there is no difference, there is no relativization of crime and what these signs represent, it's exactly the same. What worries us further is that these things happen to us often and to a large extent where young people gather, at sports events, not some concerts, at some types of public gatherings. That means we've got extra deep problems, we've failed. Of course, it's part of home education or not, but not alone, not alone. The fundamental values and the state must promote and we, in the education system, have obviously failed in this regard. And I'm sorry, and I'm going to say, I'm sorry that we missed the opportunity and through civic education work on it and give our children a chance for a better future, and for better mutual relations, and for more respect, and for more cooperation between us all, and for less cowardly crosses and similar horrors. We live in a country that relativises the scariest pages of human history and the most terrible crimes committed because of daily political events. We live in a country that started to be ashamed of antifascism. In the Republic of Croatia, people began to be ashamed of the fact that we participated in the brightest page of human history, that we participated in a movement that defeated that non-human, this monster of Nazism and fascism. And it relativizes, and unfortunately it glorifies the darkest side of our and human history, which is participation in Nazism and fascism. And there can be no relativization and there can be no negativity. And the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, we at the HNS Club think it's time and that the Croatian Assembly not as a set of individuals, not as a set of political and social, ideological if you want a worldview and look at things but as the most legislative body of the Republic raises the voice, raises the voice and shouts loudly and proudly to Ustaška U, cowardly crosses and "For Home Ready" we are not us, that this is not Croatia, that we are a decent, open country and that this has nothing to do with us. Because at the end of my colleague and colleague, it also says in our Constitution, it's in a document on which this country is founded, if at this point in this country it means anything to anyone else, and I hope it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106522	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Kresimir Bubalo will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106523	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We were just looking for a break at the HDSSB club because of the extraordinary situation in Slavonia and Baranja, and it was a mosquito problem that got out of hand. Why do we say out of control? Is what a man can tolerate and endure, it's up to 15 stab wounds in 15 minutes. Unfortunately, at the premises of Slavonia and Baranja today we have 15 minutes and up to 500 stings as recorded in the Municipality of Erdut in Baranja and other parts. We were just looking for a break for this reason that the prime minister, but also the health minister and other competent to deal with this problem because the situation in Slavonia and Baranja is alarming. People after 1900 can't get out of the house and often, you might be joking when we're waving from the pay phone here, it's because of the ticks we once have, and we come from Slavonia and Baranja because of the mosquitoes. So if people can't get out of the house after 7:00, then that's a serious problem. God did not allow things to happen, and we know that mosquitoes and carriers are diseases, that health problems happen to us, that mosquitoes start to carry certain diseases, so I ask who will be responsible for what will happen in Slavonia and Baranja. Some have sought a break because of the grass, unfortunately in Slavonia and Baranja no grass is cut, canals are not cleaned, but in these canals, there are mosquitoes in the swamp area and mosquitoes have to be controlled. Therefore, if it is necessary to change the rulebook to reduce the number of mosquitoes. We know that the change in income tax reduces the possibility in local administration units and budgets. At the premises of the Republic of Croatia for a billion and 800 million kuna. But we know only in the space of Osijek-Baranja County that 60 thousand acres underwater and we know that 10km around that area is necessary to treat mosquitoes and we know that mosquito can fly 30 km. Therefore, it is urgently necessary from the current reserve to provide 40 million kuna for Slavonia and Baranja for treatment but also treatment at the same time throughout the room in order to suppress the nesting of mosquitoes. What I'm saying is that at the premises of Osijek, it's been arranged to treat mosquitoes but with Serbian planes. So I'm calling since the SDP and HDZ coalition are there, and I'm calling the Resolute Ministry to see if these planes have permission to treat on the premises of the city of Osijek. If the Serbian air force... And on the premises of Osijek we have the same mosquitoes then I wonder if these permits are good, if these planes have been tested and we know we have Croatian aviation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to say that high water supply and Danube and Drava, but no lurvicid treatments have been made in that area. Adjunctive treatment is needed, therefore at this point we have the feeling that we are in a tropical space and not in the space of Slavonia and Baranja. I mean, when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, we don't have the worst investment, but we have the most mosquitoes. So I'm asking the government right now to check all this data that I've listed. I'm asking the Minister of Health's Resorient Ministry to see if we can have inconceivable consequences on human health and human health, but also on the premises of Slavonia and Baranja. And I'm looking for an emergency response from the Prime Minister and the Resort Ministry to contain the mosquito nest and get it under control, which is up to 15 stab wounds in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106524	We return to the swastika or the swastika, Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the Independent Lefties.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106525	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Bubalo was talking about how mosquitoes are transporters of disease, I wonder at the very beginning if I'm good at creamworth, who are carriers of moral disease. We're not ashamed of fascism, Ustasha, cowardly crosses and similar symbols, that's proof. The proof is the city of Zagreb, look at the walls in the city of Zagreb. The well-known postman Milan Bandic, never bothered to cover the hooky crosses, the letter in which he actually solved many houses and many walls in the city of Zagreb. We begin to be ashamed only if we are caught in indolence by the sign of evil. That's when we start. Only when the Italians saw it then did we start to be ashamed. It doesn't occur to me to do anything to the police, we're talking about the DORH today, and we're going to mention that, too, to Uskkok, to PNUSKOK, to all those services we have. In Croatia, it is also allowed to highlight what is evil. And now he sees the devil, we're all consterned, the whole of Croatia gets up on its feet and says who lets it. Only on the lawn is it illegal because there was still that, the whole world, she went around the picture and it's horrible. And it's the wrong thing to do, guys. We've become intolerant of evil. We've become tolerated at crawling fascism. They're guilty institutions that don't react, tolerate the spread of hate, blame football leaders. The most intolerant person in Croatian football is also the most powerful. Mamic spreads hate, threatens, fights, politicizes and political cheerleading, and the parties accept it as such. It's freed by any responsibility of society, freed by the media's responsibilities. Davor Shuker is getting rid of his sister-in-law and he himself has pilgrimaged the grave of the criminal Pavelic and now he says it can be done. And we're toleranced and he's elected president of the football union. No, we can make everything seem, steal, lie, encourage hate and be a pillar of society. She's amazed by the swastika on the Man and you see the president. She was at a game where the Home-ready was running, she didn't get up, she didn't mind. Why isn't that? Yes, it was a magnificent atmosphere when they yelled "For Home Ready." It's also those who play the Thompson song football games, the singer whose song begins "For Home Ready" and says they'll never give it up. The man who sang, I don't know if he's singing Jasenovac and Gradiška old now. It's played at official team games. Well, that's embarrassing and we're doing the same thing here. Split is a normal consequence, and those who did so thought they were not doing some great crime. And now the only thing we need is for the team not to accidentally remove the team from the competition. It doesn't matter to us that society is sick, it's just that our football players go and play games and still write fascist signs wherever we go. Don't throw away, at least you're decent people, so don't throw away, I never do, yeah. So we're ashamed of the cowardly cross only when others see it, when others point their finger at us and say what you're doing. Then we raise our voice here, raise the voice of a few intellectuals, but this intellectual cream, the cream under quotes, should be asked why we are silent. Why is the academic community silent? Why is the HAZU silent? Why is the institutions silent? The hooky cross on Po man is the result of indemnity, tolerance towards evil. Everyone else, even if most of them are, orders these days Mr. Karamarko, he will sanction them. All different and then all those who sanction us will unite into one beautiful one, as Mr. Glavas says in his profile, glorifying the swastika, the big cross, and left-wings will be ordered by Karamarko from Canada, on hooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106526	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain will speak. My colleagues, I would ask you to calm down, to be tolerant, to be parliamentary, and to let our colleagues speak when they've already called.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106527	You gentlemen are coming to mine slowly. We're going in this kind of order. The 12.6th in Zenica is played by BiH and Israel, Croatia plays with Italy in Split. What happened in Split is an insolent provocation, a provocation I call a diversion, for which all the members of society are responsible, not just the CNS. But what happened in Zenica is dangerous and could mark the time ahead. What happened in Zenica? The Bosnian game with Israel, they won 3:1, the flag of Israel was trampled, the Jews aufwiedersehen, etc., etc. With this in Split, we will somehow deal with, how BiH will be dealt with, and everything in Zenica is difficult to assume. Croatia, Serbia, BiH, Montenegro, including Kosovo, Albania, we are kind of neighbours. Messages from Zagreb or Split should be read meanings much wider, as well as those from Zenica or from that match in Belgrade between, say, Serbia and Albania. Imagine that about a month ago that Zagreb drone, that helicopter armed with no flag, had already flown to Maxime when there was a game between Dinam and Hajduk. There'd be panic, people would probably get hurt. Who'd be guilty of that? HNS, police, us, who? This in Split is in some way a continuation of all that has happened in Zagreb, which is happening throughout the Republic of Croatia. If the police found the perpetrators from Zagreb, they didn't. Did she look for them, I guess. And it happened to us, Split, that cowardly cross happened. Whose responsibility is it? Just the CNS, just the police, that's irrelevant. For this situation in Croatian football, but not just football, I would say once again all the members of the government and what someone on the higher level is more responsible. In front of 20 days, the president says she didn't hear, as my predecessor said, those screams "home ready" at a game in Maximir, don't you think? But they also heard them in HNS, heard them at the Ministry of Police, heard by those ministers who were there, they heard it both in my home and in the Prime Minister's house. Everyone heard them, and everyone put it down. Except maybe I was saying something to myself in the mustache how long that fascism would take. In 2008, I read in some newspapers when I came to the apartment here in Zagreb that at Thompson's concert in Zagreb, some were Scandicated by ′′s, killed by a Serb, and in seven days he was scheduled to perform in Umag. I'm calling President Mesic's second day right now and I'm asking Mr. President if you'll come to that ATP if that's the star and that one. And Mesic told me then literally, you tell Rasberger, I respect Rasberger, we're friends, if he comes he won't come me. And so this problem is sort of solved. I'd give Mr. Perkovic blood, but you can't say hello to the home ready in Istria. You can't go anywhere, not Istria. And what happened when he came in the second day, the second day at the concert, then they didn't run for ′′kill, kill the Serb, but they've been running an hour's kill, kill Caine. And what the police said, they're not at the concert, but before the concert, we're not responsible for it. Well, that's not how it works, gentlemen. I'm just saying that Croatia doesn't like Ustasha signs, Croatia doesn't like cowardly crosses, Croatia also doesn't like robbery, kidnapping, turning public into private and so many main culprits are far away I'd say outside of HNS and perhaps a little less in HNS. Yesterday I read a text, I think Mr. Jarasovic wrote that it would be a tragedy if we didn't have the bread to run out of games now. And that's why we really need to keep what little is left of our football. One cross united the media, us here in anti-fascist thoughts, and if nothing else, maybe it's a good thing and maybe something in this country will change after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106528	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Jasen Mesic will speak on a different topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, it is necessary to repeat what HDZ has done before, and it is clear to condemn this shameful act of drawing a cowardly cross on the lawn of the human stadium. It is a shameful act, a Nazi act that has nothing to do with 21st century civilization and that has caused great damage to all of us and the Republic of Croatia, sports, football, society as a whole, and we definitely condemn such a fall. The Croatian Democratic Community does so continuously, continuously condemns all totalitarianisms in line with European conventions. It is precisely those totalitarianisms that are listed in European documents and conventions, national socialism, fascism and communism. Regardless of the advances of all our colleagues who condemned this disgraceful act here in the House, the only real answer to that is democracy, but also to get caught and found guilty of this shameful act as soon as possible. It is also to establish the full extent of responsibility of all those responsible for this shameful act by the organisers, the one who drew it, or set the grass on fire to see the flow of the shameful symbol, and all the way to the Minister of Interior, the police who cannot be esculpated with their responsibilities regarding the event, because this very state body is also responsible for maintaining order and that such things in Croatian stadiums, on Croatian facades, do not appear on Croatian streets. I had to call the vice president on that. [[Upadica Stazić: I find it very interesting to hear HDZ's views on this, but you have announced the topic of postponing graduation.]] Vice President and more, less than half the time. [[Intruder Stazic: You can refer to whatever you want, that's all you have to announce.]] Here I go. Allow me? [[Intruding Stazic: You be my guest.]] Sir. Mr. Vice President, what I said was important for the prominent, it was important to repeat our thinking and our views, and it was only important to point out how the serious state administration handled these things, which is to catch the culprit, that he be properly punished and to determine the responsibility of everyone in the chain of responsibility. [[Intruder Stazic: Here you go if your colleagues from the club permit you, if they stop making noises you may be able to continue.]] Democracy is also the right answer to these very problems, and it came early in the 1990s and was brought by the Croatian Democratic Community. Take a look at the situation that you have with a delay, let's say the state's graduation because of what I wanted to talk about, where you have a situation where state bodies have several hours before the graduation for all graduates in Croatia postpone this important exam, which is still called a colloquial maturity exam. Well, that's not the only example, Mr. Vice President. The other day he fell, practically yesterday a complete CARNET system related to the conclusion of grades, and we boast and talk about how everything is fine, how the state is neater. Mr. Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic says this is a more decorated state, a more orderly society than they found it. How is this situation so good, and it takes another four-year term to make it even better so that God forbids it. Today I'm talking about these things and we're judging, and we're wondering where our education is going. Our situation where we're postponing the prom whether it's for breaking and entering and stealing exams or not, I don't know what. But it speaks enough of the disorganization of the state bodies, or government bodies in charge. CARNET falls to finish the grades. Can you imagine what this situation is like in any family that has school children in their family? Very recently we had a funny one, not to mention the sad situation with the award of an Oscar of Knowledge that was to be placed on one pedestal. Practically, under the reason of saving almost completely cancelled this event. Fortunately, a solution was found where children in one school made their own rewards to those students who deserved it. There lies colleagues and colleagues the first cause of how we will deal with these situations that have occurred at the Human Stadium. He's lying here. And as long as we are all here only judging, and not giving an emphasis here as well as punishing all those responsible by the perpetrators, the organizers of the sports event to the minister responsible for the police until then our votes here in the Croatian Parliament will have no results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106530	Thank you. In the name of the HSU Club, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106531	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We hate to talk about history, but the fact is that in Croatia there is a system climate and a system of constant return to the past. And this unfortunate event in Split is a constant return to the past. Recently, I watched on Croatian television a show "In the twilight zone" when after 20 years, the commander of Dachau returned very arrogant and pompous from Latin America in Dahau and so overtly began to remember everything that was going on in the camp. He met with the souls of his victims and eventually because of these encounters and because of the conflict with his souls, he went mad. The conclusion of the leader of Dahau must exist for people to be aware of what's going on there. Do we have those sites where they were killed both under the letter U and under the cowardly cross, if our citizens can see them somewhere. And the Americans could level those concentration camps with tanks with the ground as it leveled with the land of Jasenovac. In Jasenovac you see a flower, but you can't even experience the conditions in which these people lived and died, nor can you, including the highest possible level of imagination, conclude what human suffering and suffering were. They are like the Italians who today react to what happened at the Split stadium, they have preserved their Rižana on the permanent memorial of the victims, i.e. a warning to that society, to their society to the crimes committed by that people. That's what the Germans did. And they kind of passed that part, cleaned it up. We didn't do it. We have, as a Croatian society, the unbearable ease of existence, the unbearable ease of playing with symbols, the unbearable ease of playing with the past. And look at the devil, we all got excited this four days talking about a cowardly cross in a human stadium, and no one to react to what one of the predecessors said to the hooky crosses around schools, about institutions, about these screams at all the concerts and mass events. We're very, very tolerated there. Now that it is yet an affair of international importance, we are now questioning who has not done it, which he has not done, why he has not done it, and we have done nothing for decades to warn that it is evil, that we condemn it all to the end regardless of party belongings. And there can't be any sympathy for crime, it can't be. How can I who did not remember my uncle forget the words of my late grandmother be shot by Rommel's soldiers in a small place near the Barban. They didn't find his gun, they didn't find his letter, he was a courier, but they didn't prove it. Without trial, he was shot with nothing. We can forget it as a society? Carrying from knee to knee? We can be tolerant of such a symbolism? My people, you can't do this! It can't be done, politics can't be run in a way of sympathy or unsympathy toward something. There must be a general social climate condemnation of what is unacceptable for a level of civilization, for a democratic society. That's where we prove it, right here on this one we'd call marginalia. But they didn't marginalize, they're very important, we prove how mature and democratic society we really are. We didn't pass the exam, and let's not expect it to solve the system's institutions. We have to work this out in our houses, first in our heads. We are responsible for what the Republic of Croatia will look like today and tomorrow. So I repeat, let's not put our heads in the sand. We have great tasks ahead of us on this plan, but in the future, we do not return and calculate ourselves with the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106532	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, Novi Val and the People's Party of Reformists, the respected Petar Baranovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. Very serious, very ugly subject this morning. When Hannibal in his day crossed the Alps with elephants and appeared at the gates of Rome then in Rome they commented on Hannibal's ante portas or Hannibal was at the door. And as my representative and your colleague today in this House I speak very clearly, very responsible fascism is at the door and has already opened them up fat when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. And let's not let the ladies and gentlemen walk so easily past this problem anymore, let's look into the truth. Every story has its own origin, so let's ask ourselves today in this room how many years has it been since the relativation of the crime as far as the outcome was in this room in this pay phone in many debates? How many times did many MPs look for, of course, weak points and elements of crime that were on one side and on the other, in some historical events, entitled to put in a negative context those military forces that were truly clearly recognised as part of the anti-fascist military coalition in World War II? I'm talking about partisans. What political messages have been sent from individual party leaders, what political messages have been sent from individual colleagues in previous mandates and in this mandate? How many political messages we sent to the radicals of individuals and groups that it becomes socially acceptable to return the swastika as part of the iconography in general, that it becomes socially acceptable to put U on the wall of a meter, that it is socially acceptable and that it is desirable for some. What are we ladies and gentlemen doing? Did the English get the English army and Churchill to do it because he bombed Dresden? Of course not. He committed a war crime in the circumstances of history in which he committed it. Did the Americans beat their president because he knowingly dropped two atomic bombs and killed a few hundred civilians of women and children? Civilians, not prisoners of war, but civilians. But we trampled in the Croatian public a bright episode of Partisans for the crimes committed, the truth of '45. And '46. the years part. In my town, which was given by 1350 guys on Sutjesca, in the same anti-fascist coalition that we're even constitutionally sworn to, the name of their commander-in-chief came down the other day. What message did we send to the right radicals? Go ahead, gentlemen, grab a pinnel and pick up the hook crosses. Draw an even bigger cowardly cross on Po man, at the stadium of the club that played under the Partizan uniform against the English military team. ... Well done, Duje, I see how you reacted because you recognized yourself. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And there's part of the responsibility in your actions for this. It is time for this Parliament to take a very clear, very clear stand to amend both the Penal Code and the Law on Sports and to start to throw into shackles those who will play with the cowardly cross. Who's gonna play with the cowardly cross deserves it. The time has come for us to bring order into this country. These gentlemen are benign things, the next step is someone's gonna take off another head tomorrow because of the cowardly cross. That's how it started in the '30s in Germany. We all know the result. The thing intersects in the root. As politics, as a society and as responsible people, let's deal with every kind of radicalism and at this point we have a cowardly cross at the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106534	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106535	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, Povestika and Postika have been the subject for days in Croatia because the painting from Po man has gone into the world and because we will again be judged by others. These two cases are European football authorities. In Croatia, no one has made the condemnation or verdict of unacceptable behaviour. If it hadn't been for that, it'd have been like the maximum home-ready. And then in Croatia neither the Croatian Football Federation as a football authority nor the leadership of the team, some admitted that they did not know that this was not acceptable behaviour, did not respond sufficiently to politics, police, or media. It all went like this happened by accident. She was at that game and the president of the Republic of Croatia didn't react either because she said she hadn't heard. And then the football power of Europe emptied the Pomen and someone decided to send a new message. I read the statements Mr. Karamarko said it was most likely done by hooligans, saying in the same statement that there is also a special war against Croatia and that the world media is ringing at the alarm. Isn't it sad that the world's media is ringing the alarm for something that happened in Croatia? This swastika on Pomlje is not a cause but a consequence of deep ideological divisions especially in the last two years of imposed historical debates and opening doors to signs that when they come out no one can control anymore and all to escape the debate about the present. The letter "U", "For Home Ready" and the cowardly crosses in Croatia are declared a patriot, a patriot. I can answer that, lady, and say that in Croatia patriots are declared peasants. All those who do so should be reminded that the country loves each other in a different way, including honesty. And when that criterion is dominant, there will be no time, no space, no possibility that this ideology, which is extremely dangerous, will be declared an ordinary hooligan and a patriot to peasants. I consider myself a patriot, and no one has ever told me I'm a peasant for it. Probably because to prove patriotism, I didn't need to yell "For Home Ready."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106536	SDP's last club and Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u106537	Dear colleagues and colleagues, sister-in-law, the cowardly cross on the Earth is not an isolated case. Let's not kid ourselves about that. The hooky cross on Po man is the result of a long-standing head stick in the sand. The hooky cross on Po man is the fruit of a long-standing relativization of the hate speech we have often witnessed. The hooky cross on Pomlje is the fruit of Ustaška calling "For Home" some persistently trying to portray as an ancient Croatian greeting and a sign of patriotism and it is not. The hooky cross on Pomlje is also the fruit of it when some go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, for example, in Canada, call for arms and behind each corner to see some new people's enemies. The SDP today, here, once again, I do not know which time condemns every hate speech and calls on all relevant political factors, all of our colleagues and colleagues and in this House that every hate speech condemns when it happens, and not when it tells us someone outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. But also today, the SDP invites all colleagues and colleagues, all political factors to move more away from the past, to stop fighting the battle of '41 and the battle of '91. We in the SDP invite you all to turn to the future together, to start talking about GDP growth and industrial production, to start talking about export growth and personal consumption, to start talking about the employment growth that Croatia is at the top of Europe today. We of the SDP claim, we are sure that this is the only way we will ensure that last week's unloved pictures of the Humans never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112641	Now we're going to the agenda. Today we will discuss the first three points in the consolidated agenda. First: - Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2014 The report was submitted by the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 40. Law on State's Attorney's Office, you've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Dinko Cvitan, Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112642	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report for 2014 pursuant to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. the content of the report referred to above, the report on the state and movement of the reported crime in the previous year, on matters relating to the protection of the real estate interests of the Republic of Croatia, on legal issues in certain areas, and on the review, organisation and status of staff in the State Attorney's Office. The report, of course, also contains statistical indicators according to certain thematic elements which I will highlight in my opening speech only if they are relevant for the analysis of the state and movement of the reported crime, its risks to society as a whole, and the situation concerning the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Since the State Attorney's Office has criminal and civil-government departments in its composition, a specific analysis of the work of criminal and civil-government departments has been carried out in the report. The report shall contain information on the staff bases for the operation and material finance of the society, and shall also refer to the legislative framework relevant to our work, warning of certain shortcomings in the legislation and, in relation to certain areas, proposals for improving work were made if possible. I note that the report does not contain data on certain items in accordance with Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 2 and 40. Law on State's Attorney's Office. During 2014, the State Attorney's Office as a hierarchical organised judicial body consisted of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, 15 County and 33 Municipal State Attorney's Office. In 2014, 1,636 of them were employed by 604 officials, 918 officials and 140 tenants. Of the 604 officials, 403 deputy state attorneys worked in the penitentiary departments and 162 in the civil-government departments. Of the 604 judicial officials, 400 or 66.23% are women. On 31st December 2014, 133 alternate seats were unfulfilled, of which 9 seats of the Deputy Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, 35 in the county state's attorneys' offices and 89 in the municipal state's attorneys' offices. There is also a significant number of unfulfilled councilors 159 trainees 181 and officials primarily due to lack of funds, and when it comes to officers with special knowledge due to a small coefficient or small income, it is difficult to find candidates with appropriate expertise and skills to work at IT experts and other specialised professions. The problem of lack of trainees will certainly show even more in time since the last trainee is employed 4 years ago and since then there has been no competition for trainees. The additional problem is the question of advisers who do not have a completed State School for Judicial Officials, for many years have been working as advisers in less complex cases, or are doing small complex work under the supervision of mentors and state attorneys, which leads to their indetermination in work, lack of responsibility, and this is not the correct profiling of staff for deputy state attorneys. As far as material assets are concerned, funds for the operation of all state attorneys amounting to 311 million kuna 423 thousand have been provided. This plan has been fully respected, or so spent, and has provided funding of slightly greater than 311 million kunas. The fact that the material resources provided are not sufficient for all needs because they are often intended solely for the settlement of basic and daily obligations towards the provider of municipal, telecommunications and other services and for the purchase of basic material resources. Despite the fact that state attorneys in all segments have sought to make the most of the financial resources available, they are nevertheless not sufficient in particular in the intellectual services item, in particular for the costs of skills required before the indictment is filed or implemented to determine whether there is a reasonable doubt or not a criminal offence has been committed. The lack of funds could be questioned and protected by the property of the Republic of Croatia because unless the requested advance is paid to the court for the execution of certain evidence, it is considered that the party has given up and the evidence will not be subsequently implemented. We have informed the competent ministries about this problem and have proposed amendments to Article 46. The State Attorney's Office Act in such a way that the funds for these needs are secured at the positions of those state bodies and institutions from whose jurisdiction a particular dispute arises or which manages the real estate which is the subject of the procedure. In particular, it noted in the report that 24 million kuna was spent on the material costs and costs of representation in international arbitration, by foreign law firms, in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The financial resources available are insufficient for the education or implementation of seminars, consultations or the necessary professional training of officials. In addition, the State Attorney's Office points to insufficient resources to obtain professional literature that is necessary for officials to work daily in view of the rapid legislative changes. The report also lists the lack of computers necessary for the implementation of the CTE system. Last year, 672 computers were delivered. Overall, it is available with 1360 computers so that all employees do not have a computer and in 2015 it will be necessary to obtain cca. 550 computers if you want to ensure that this year the CTE system is launched for all state attorneys. The report lists data related to problems, state attorneys' accommodation problems, and I would point out this and only the problem of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. The space that is located and which is available in the office in Gaje... It's absolutely insufficient and unconditional for the office's work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is, there's only one room to shoot. The archive is too small and no longer in the archive can fit everything the archive should go in and in the way it is prescribed by law. In addition, two deputy directors sit in rooms ranging from 12 to 14 square meters and it simply makes it impossible to work. On the other hand, it is impossible to hire employees, tenants, or professional associates simply because although the means provided are those people simply do not have to be where they are located. As regards the application of the legislation, this was the first year of full application of criminal procedural legislation noveled after the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. As we pointed out last year, the conduct of a state lawyer in the previous procedure became more complicated because of a number of newly introduced rights of defendants and other interested persons and a series of deadlines that time limits decision-making and, within such deadlines, pressured the work of state lawyers, created an additional burden to the opinion or legal understanding of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia as of 30 May of last year, leading to the fact that the cases conducted by the old CAP were of '97. So the investigation conducted by the investigating judges was delivered to the state's attorney's office to 352 cases with 889 investigations that additionally burdened the work of the state's attorneys. Obviously, it is particularly difficult and complex cases because none of these investigations are younger than 3 years old, noting that some of these investigations are both of them and 20 years old. Of course, in these situations, state lawyers must make a decision within 6 months. As regards the duration of the proceedings and the shortening of the deadlines prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act, the investigation is too short, so the basic period is 6 months and it can be extended for another 6 months in particularly complex and difficult cases by 12 months. These deadlines because it is impossible to respect them in less complex and generally simple cases because it is possible to wait, for example, for an international legal aid application to be examined by one witness, without an examination of that witness, you have not established a factual state. And then these deadlines are extended, and I think it's enough for the law to say that the investigation has to be completed within six months, unless it is completed that the senior state attorney will take all measures and actions to complete the investigation within the appropriate time limit as we have proposed to the Ministry of Justice. New solutions in the 2011 Criminal Law have affected the work of the state attorney's office in the previous procedure, the difficulties are always the most common in the first years of law enforcement, but I must say, regardless of the changes in the law, the state's attorneys have largely prevailed and the time has passed so that the situation will be better. To emphasise that the work of the state's attorney's office in the area of criminal law has increased significantly because of the decriminalisation of certain crimes and the transition to the criminal sphere of punishment, and because of the exclusive jurisdiction of the state's attorneys for the initiation of the infringement procedure under the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion. In this regard, in the light of the legal solution to informing the State Audit Office and the State Election Commission of the infringements committed by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia are not directly but indeed all State Attorney's Offices are involved from the DORH, county and municipal state lawyers. In the area of civil law, the draft Law on a litigation procedure has significantly changed the course of proceedings before a first-degree court, as the previous procedure, which was provided for only in small-value disputes, is being introduced into all litigation proceedings. It is limited to present new facts and to propose new evidence after the conclusion of the previous procedure, a new concept of the first-degree procedure provided for in two hearings, etc. All the novels of the Executive Act in recent years were intended to simplify and speed up the executive procedure and to collect the requests of the executives, leading to a significant reduction of the executive cases in courts but not in state attorneys. The amendments to the 2012 Banking Act are the same as in line with the provisions of the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement, and a whole new type of case has emerged in the work of the State Attorney's Office and the possibility of settlement has been introduced with the aim of resolving disputes on the existence of a trustee of demand. These frequent amendments and additions to civil procedural legislation have led to the discharging of courts, their more effective treatment and the speedier completion of the proceedings but, at the same time, led to a significant increase in the burden of the work of state lawyers, more specifically civil administration departments representing the Republic of Croatia as parties to those proceedings. As for the state and movement of crime, a decline in criminal charges against all known and unknown perpetrators is recorded this year for 10%. I wouldn't say absolute numbers. They're clearly indicated in the report. Reports against celebrities and legal persons have been in continuous decline since 2011 and decline in 2013 was 6% while the number of criminal charges against unknown perpetrators is also down 14%. When we look at the structure of the crime on charges filed, crimes against property are participated in the largest part, so against 12 thousand 443 persons, criminal charges have been filed for crimes against property, and they are participating with 37.4%. The following are crimes against personal freedoms with 17.7%, and these are mainly threat crimes, crimes against the economy with 7.2%, marriage, family, children with 6.8%, etc., etc. So we can conclude that nothing significant has happened in the structure of the criminal offences reported, which should be the subject of some particular evidence of the state's attorney's office, so in the structure in all criminal acts, reported criminal acts, and I must stress that, in relation to the younger adult and so on, the largest number of persons reported is precisely for property offences. The law on criminal proceedings distinguishes the direct charge from the charges following an investigation, although in certain cases a direct charge of criminal offences prescribed for up to 15 years in prison is possible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The CAP and such a direct charge. As a rule, direct charges are brought up for criminal offences for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to 5 years and that these acts are the most numerous in the structure of the reported criminality directly accused 13280 persons and after an investigation of 3593 persons. Of the 13280 indictments filed, 6276 accused persons and 47% of all direct indictments brought by the State's attorneys requested the courts to issue a criminal order as one of the means of shortening the criminal proceedings. As far as the investigation is concerned, I have already said that the solution to conduct the investigation was brought against 4353 persons, which is the size of the increase in the job, and here is only one comparative data in 2012 the solution to the conduct of the investigation was taken against 783 persons, of which from the jumper's jurisdiction 521. It is therefore an enormous number of solutions to conduct investigations in relation to the previous year, as a consequence of the legislative solution. The trial before the accused council was successful for the state's attorneys. 10284 of the indictments or 96.1% of all charges have been confirmed. The courts made first-degree rulings against 15747 people, out of which 14371 convictions, which is either 91.3%. During 2014, the work of the State Attorney's Office in relation to the agreement was specifically monitored. The data indicate that 716 judgments were made on the basis of a party agreement which was more sensitive than in 2013 when they were 425. However, of the 716 rulings under the agreement, 424 came from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, while municipal and county state attorneys concluded agreements on the basis of which only 292 persons of 13776 indictees were convicted, so 2% of the cases were agreed. We appreciate this absolutely insufficient because agreeing as an institute is very important, primarily because of the reduction in the process and because of the great cost savings because each process carries, or costs a lot. Special attention has been paid to freezing and confiscation of property benefit. In the report, there are tables showing all the state's attorneys, how many judgments were made, what was the value of frozen assets, and what was the value of the assets seized on the basis of first-degree rulings, so I say that the value of the frozen assets was a total of 175 million kuna. So it's an estimated asset, it's also got unrated assets, so it's a larger amount, because it's in relation to the jumper's jurisdiction, and it's frozen property worth 112 million kuna. The first-degree courts, or first-degree judgments, took away the property benefit of 202 million kuna. As for working in criminal cases against minors and minors, we can say that younger adults are involved in the overall criminality of known offenders with 7.6%. So in 2014, less than 13.9% of people were reported than in 2013. Trend declines in the number of reported minors have been continuous for two years, and one of the reasons that is certainly a change in criminal law, which the nearest form of criminal offence related to drug abuse was then reported largely with about 30%. However, we can say and conclude with certainty that such legal frameworks have led to a fall in the number of crimes committed by younger minors and minors. What's important is that state's attorneys were absolutely up-to-date in cases compared to minors. In fact, there were 2864 applications in the paper, of which at the end of the reporting period in the state's attorneys, only 6 applications or 0.2% were pending, and we can argue that this is an absolute emergency. In particular, it was pointed out that, by applying the principle of purpose in the previous procedure, it was achieved or proved to be extremely good, particularly because juvenile law is a right of education, this is not a repressive law, and in 2014 as in 2013 51% of cases by calling for a principle of purpose, the decision was made not to initiate criminal proceedings without or subject to the special obligation laid down in Article 72. The Youth Court Act. The report gave the movement and structure of crime and detailed data on USKOK's work. In several sentences, there has been a significant decline in the number of criminal charges, a smaller number of investigations than the previous year, which is actually the result of last year's Hypocrates action, which reported over 500 people. So it has now returned to that situation which was the number of criminal charges filed in 2012. Just because of this action last year, USKOK has had the largest number of convictions since its founding, so the majority of court decisions on the office's indictments. These are 622 convictions of which 595 convictions or 95.66% convictions, 23 convictions or 3.70% are liberating, while 4 convictions are 0.64% reluctant. The report gives clear indicators regarding organised crime, as well as corruption. Otherwise, as I have initially said to each chapter of the Penal Code, statistics have been provided and certain conclusions have been made on the state and movement of crime for each individual sentence, the head of the Penal Code. As regards the work on civil and administrative matters, the State Attorney's Office as a representative under the Law of the Republic of Croatia shall take all legal actions in order to protect its property, property interests through representation of the Republic of Croatia in proceedings before courts, administrative and other bodies, representation in administrative courts, the submission of requests for an extraordinary review of the powerful judgment, and administrative proceedings for the return of the seized property, the State's Attorney General shall act with a view to protecting legality. However, by giving legal opinions on legal matters concluded by the Republic of Croatia as one of the Contracting Parties, the State Attorney's Office shall simultaneously protect the legality, ensure fair and equal treatment towards all, prevent disputes and protect the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. Civil-Government departments in last year's work had 63663 cases, court cases representing an increase of 2 and a half percent. In fact, all cases, the court cases were 48532, administrative 3117, while the other cases were covered by 12006 cases. The report gives an overview of new cases according to the state body from which they came from, so according to the value of the dispute, the highest value of disputes stemming from the jurisdiction of the State Office for State Property Management in the amount of 3 billion 182 million kuna, the Ministry of Finance 720 million kuna, the Ministry of Justice 276 million kuna, etc. The total value of the dispute in litigation initiated under the claims of the Republic of Croatia is 535 million kuna which is almost the same as in 2013 while the value of the dispute case against the Republic of Croatia is 4 billion 775 million which is twice as much as in 2013. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the Therefore, the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, the natural and legal persons are obliged to initiate the procedure, let's say, the non-judicial settlement of the dispute in 2014 has totalled 1285 extrajudicial settlements. The value of settled settlements is 77 million kuna. It is interesting to note that from 2010 to the end of 2014, a total of 6812 extrajudicial agreements with a total value of 603 million kuna were concluded. In this way, there is great savings both in relation to the costs of the litigation process and in relation to non-payments of interest when such a settlement is concluded. The Deputy Civil-Government Departments made a total of 5579 metric state-law decisions, representing 18899 hearings, which is 11.29% more than in 2013. They invested 1523 regular legal medicines and 536 extraordinary legal medicines. As far as success is concerned, we then got litigation in total value of 897 million kuna and lost the total value of 136 million kuna. So success was 87%. Analyzing the success of the litigation according to the value of the dispute before the Trade Courts, we received a total of 541 million kuna, lost 135 million kuna, so that the total value of the dispute and the amount of the claim against the Republic of Croatia as regards the defendant before the Trade Courts amounted to 676 million kuna. The report shall contain specific parts relating to the investigations of criminal offences and the restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms with the provision of statistics on the application of specific evidence actions showing that the success of the USKOK is much higher than the success of regular state lawyers and that is the subject of permanent and permanent analysis to improve the work of regular state lawyers in this segment. It contains the Report on International Legal Assistance and Cooperation. All statistics are also listed on increasing the activities of the State's Attorney's Office. The report shall analyse cooperation with the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights, the supervision of the work of lower national lawyers and shall in particular explain joint work with the police and other state bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. The state's attorney's office during 2014 maintained a high level of awareness, efficiency, quality of work. Intensive legislative changes have not significantly affected the orderly and legal conduct of matters under the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office because of the continued implementation of the education programme of the state's attorneys and the deputy state's attorneys both within the judicial academy and within the State's attorney's system. It is pointed out that without the admission of trainees and the number of state-level lawyers required as assumptions for the appointment of deputy state attorneys, it is not possible to provide the necessary personnel potential to carry out increasing legal obligations due to current staff sub-capacitation. It is also necessary to maintain, during 2015 and in the future, a level of up-to-dateness and quality of work to ensure the necessary assumptions for working in the form of providing the necessary material and technical resources. Under this we mean providing adequate office space, obtaining information equipment, official cars and others. Finally, the results have been achieved due to the situation described above, primarily thanks to the exceptional over the average commitment of all state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, officials and deputies, which in itself does not create conditions for the sustainability of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112643	I'd like to thank the attorney general. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112644	Your Honor, Attorney General Cwitan, nothing personal. I would be much more pleased if such reports were on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament if experts like you would explain to us those figures they write. I have no objection about this report. In the first row it's systematic and it gives statistics everything you've been doing. And now I'd like you to do that statistic in ours when you're talking to us again to explain that statistic. Here I am going to ask one comment or one question. You're saying the crash is a report. There is a feeling, according to this report, that there is also a drop in crime in Croatia, that there is a fall in corruption. However, the perception of corruption is high. Whether it's a reduction in real crime or state institutions, I'm not talking about DORH, I'm talking about courts, I'm talking about all those institutions that need to take care of citizens, they've lost confidence in those institutions and they don't report. Because it often happens that those who report crime or corruption in state companies or in some other companies actually end up fatter. After that, they're chicanted, fired, even when the courts decide to go back to work, they're very hard to take back. How much is your perception, is it really a fall in crime or are the citizens really discouraged? And of course it's always more intriguing, for those of us who read this report, what it doesn't say. So the problem is that it doesn't say, and I know that you can't talk about everything that's going on in the DORH because it's certainly not this place to talk because many investigations are secrets but it intrigues us and we can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112645	Do you want to answer to the state's attorney? ... Is this how you're right, and you're not going to answer yourself? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, thank you. Look, you can't end it. You can contact as a proponent 5 minutes after each debate, and now you can answer every replica for 2 minutes if you want. And finally, after the entire debate, you can spend half an hour. ... Two minutes, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112646	Thank you very much. So, when we found the drop in the number of applications, I couldn't claim that there was a decline in crime. The fact is that there has been a change in the legislative framework, the fact is that decriminalisation as a criminal offence is the mildest form of drug abuse is no longer a criminal offence and therefore I cannot say that there has been a reduction in crime. The following year, so you have recently passed a law on amendments to the Penal Code, where that limit from 2000 kuna for theft is reduced to 1000 kuna, and as an extended crime, and certainly now you see reflections, there will be an increase in the number of criminal charges, i.e. there will be a rise in criminality. What I have pointed out, which we can certainly conclude about the known perpetrators, has seen a decline in juvenile crime and a reduction in relapse. The relapse was increased year after year and now the first time there was a fall, so one trend stopped. As far as perception is concerned, it's very difficult for me to speak. I know that the state's attorneys are in charge, and I, as the attorney general, do everything I can to respond to every criminal application and react in the manner that the law provides, to determine the facts and based on these facts, to make a valid legal state-of-law decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112647	Another replica, dear Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112648	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chief State Attorney, Mr. Cvitan, I'm going to ask you something that seems of interest to the entire public, especially to the Dubrovnik public. According to the SOA report, which mentions that one large state-owned company in which the state has a majority ownership or ownership, the share, after that report, was said to have had an irregularity in privatisation or that the administration was buying shares, etc. However, since the company's name is not listed, speculation has occurred in public. So on all prime dates in all media outlets the name of the company Atlantic navigation is published. So I'm asking you to at least answer, I think here's what I'm assuming you can tell us, is it really about Atlantic navigation, I think it's out of public interest because all the media are in prime time you saw it and posted it yourself from public television to other media outlets that it's about Atlantic navigation. However, this company says that it simply doesn't matter no matter what they say. I'd like you to answer if it's Atlantic navigation. First of all, for the sake of the employees themselves, it's not for the administration if it was possibly wrong, it's for 95%, 99% of those who do their job diligently, and these are sailors who melt on all seas around the world. And it would be important to answer whether it's Atlantic sailing or not? If it is, of course, you have all the instruments available to verify the truthfulness of these allegations but I don't think it's good, it's generally a little weird that the SOA published it. I'm sure everyone would be happier if the DORH had announced that it was based on certain applications and possibly on the basis of the SOA's application that it had responded and that it was about Atlantic navigation. Here, this trip I really don't care about right now, I wonder if it's really about Atlantic navigation in view of all the speculations that are in the media every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112649	Would you like to answer? Here you go, Attorney General Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112650	Dear Mr. Matušić, you've put me in one situation right now, and I know the answer to that question, but the law does not allow me to talk about something that is under way. The fact is, I'm surprised by the writing of the media, citing one of the companies you mentioned. I have no right to say that. I can only say as in any application or in any information that comes to the State's Attorney's Office as I have said to Mr Vuksic, we must take all measures and actions, and it is generally carried out by order of the police's reconnaissances. After this has been completed and after the decision has been made then a decision can be made to inform the public and the public has the right to know. I understand your question, I understand that it's a public interest but I have a legal restriction and unfortunately I can't speak here. The fact is, the same situation is, if you allow the investigation, the investigation is not public. It used to be a secret investigation. To be honest, I don't understand what an unpublic investigation means. As far as I'm concerned, let everything be public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112651	Third replica, Honorable Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112652	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed state attorney in your 2014 report has things that are not published here and are mentioned in other reports, the type of attorney general or the MUP and is related to this Protocol on International Co-operation for BiH. We can do this later. But here, during 2014, a total of 6 requests for a peaceful solution to the dispute due to discrimination of any form were accepted in the competent state attorney's offices, five requests not accepted in relation to one of the requested authorities. So much for that, so much for some growing discrimination in the Republic of Croatia, so much for the phenomenon of fascism coming to the door of the Republic of Croatia that you could listen to before your agenda. If we now return to the Declaration of Insufferableness and One-centrism of National Minorities who sent it a year ago, who were just talking about such things about insufferableness, discrimination, organized groups in the Republic of Croatia who were in Opatija this week, in Brijuni... Speaking of the role of the media, I don't know if they were being guarded by the police, do you have any knowledge? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The support of the attorney general, the SMS bulletin that speaks of the appearances of hatred and discrimination, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia, which speaks of the baptism of 30 thousand Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, although we know through Canon that those who received the sacrament of baptism in the Orthodox Church cannot possibly be baptized in the Catholic Church, and the Catholic Church acknowledges the sacrament of baptism from the Orthodox Church. About the media, public television, and here we have heard about the sister-in-law in Split all morning, and in official reports there is not a single word in yours, as in the reports of the attorney general, the Ministry of the Interior and in the reports of these latest SOAs, and also in the scientific research of PILLAR which he spent several days ago. Not a word of such phenomena in the Republic of Croatia, and the SOA report says that they are active organisations and supporters of Chetnic movements in the countries of the environment and beyond. There are also contacts with like-minded people in the Republic of Croatia and with other organisations, and there is no word about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112653	I thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Babic is out of time. This replica is matched by State's Attorney Dinko Cvitan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can only add what it says in this report. Look, the report has to be so structured that we get the basic data out. If, in relation to each item, each number was the conclusions, if we had concrete items to insist on, that report would have 10 thousand pages. I don't think that's the point of the report. And as for this data, they are who they are. So I have nothing to add or subtract. That's five cases, there were so many, and there's a obligation to write a report about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112655	New replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112656	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Cvitan, you said in your statement that the percentage of the application against celebrities and unknowns has fallen. And I'm giving you a suggestion today how you're going to fix that percentage, report the unknown perpetrators for what they made a socialist feature in the middle of the Hajduk playground because that sign is the mark of the Socialist Party of Germany as well as the five-point star of the Socialist Party of Yugoslavia, i.e. Croatia. And these are the same two identical signs with the same effect in World War II and in vice. So, it's famous here all morning I've been listening to us from Split have to suffer exposure here people who in some way want to point out that there is an SDP in power in Croatia, or party. In Split, the SDP, in Hajduk, mainly SDP, is in secret services because Josipovic was 8 years president of the state, SOA secret, all secret services are in the hands of the SDP. And who's to blame? It's my fault, isn't it? You're looking at this side, you're looking for who's to blame. Well, you go ahead and investigate who's to blame, run the procedure is my suggestion, so let's see who's to blame. And we in Split all know, the babes know, the fish know, that SDP inspired in the fight with the Croatian Football Federation this case to tear down the football alliance just like Tito set up those spy appliances in his... And under Jovanka's bed when he changed Rankovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the same job and please report it so that we finally know, and not here spit on their country and you don't know it, we're like God... swastika. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you're a party, it's the National Socialist Party of Germany, and here it was, and here it is, you're the Socialist Party of Croatia. And you were the others. It's two of the same signs. And you can go against known perpetrators, there are five-point stars everywhere, and where the chief is known, report him because he did not take down that sign of communism that was condemned in the EU so that, according to EU and Croatian laws, they would have to take down a five-point star.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112657	Now let's hear about whether the case against Tito will be initiated for... Was in Jovanka's room. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just say the state's attorney's office is not filing criminal charges, but acting on criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112659	New replica Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112660	Dear Mr. State Attorney, over the past 12 years, there have been 27 spectacular large affairs, large arrests, of these 27 major affairs, only 7 have a judicial epilogue, i.e. a judicial verdict. Over 2 billion kunas are reportedly damage to the 27 major corruption affairs. You said the state's attorney's office took away 202 million kunas of property. The State Office for the Management of State Property, which needs to care for and care for this confiscated property, has officially announced, and I read this recently that only 5 million kunas and seized assets have been taken away. So I'd like to know where the 203 million kuna is, where's that property at the end? Who's really in charge of her and is she in charge at all? That's one question. And the second question is, last year you announced tax evasion hunters I was wondering if there were any effects and results, which was last year maybe that report should have included that element? I'm just wondering if there are any results when it comes to asset-stealing hunters?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112661	The answer to the replica of State Attorney Dinko Cvitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I did not say that we have been taken away, but the courts have reached first-degree verdicts that have been ordered to take away 202 million kunas. The truth is that... some kind of different tracking do because you don't take away 202 million kunas. on the one hand, the court has an obligation to make a judgment deposing of property benefit, and in the case of property offences normally committed by persons who have no property, such a decision must be taken, however, you have nothing to take from those persons. The law has created an obligation for the State's Attorney's Office to pursue a man for life whether he has any property that creates heavy tasks in front of state attorneys, so see how he can track someone who's been sentenced to take away 10 thousand kunas, and today there's nothing, whether he's going to have something in a year, two, five or ten years. So we're thinking about it, and we're making a plan to show next year in the report how truly and truly, based on the powerful judgments taken from the assets that are in the money that is in things and what the State Office has had to do with the management of state property. As far as tax evasion is concerned, tax evasion is one of the capital offences, there is no dilemma. Therefore, there have been objections to some agreements or judgments in this House under the agreement of the parties which have imposed prison sentences by replacing work for the common good. However, the fact is that it is important to return from one side the property benefit obtained by a criminal act and it must be appreciated as well as the eased circumstances, but tax evasion is something that damages all of us and you and our children and our people who work and those who don't receive wages etc. I have to say that this year, the Independent Tax Detachment Sector started working. It's about one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112663	Time, bring the answer to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112664	...financials, it's about a team of young, capable, professional people and you'll see the results very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112665	A new replica of the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112666	Mr. Cvitan, you can see that it's extremely important that the report contains everything that needs to be stood up and then colleagues discuss it the way it stands only on these 200 pages, otherwise it's a practice to make a summary of one 50-acre side, and you can make the report more than 200 and then your colleagues can read it. I'm going to give you this opportunity to say the same thing as you on the board about the most difficult crimes of the early crime that went particularly in the media last year, the criminals are walking freely. This was the most relevant to Serbs and Vukovar, and you normally gave here an extended report that you examined and gave statements and checked such allegations and that no evidence was collected. So this is something that should have absolutely been found in your report and that the whole public knows to sort of take off that Stigma. As far as war crimes are concerned, we are absolutely so that every war crime is investigated, we are so that families don't wait 20 years and more, especially in those cases where the perpetrators are also known and where there is material evidence, where there are witnesses, where even surviving witnesses exist, and not that these crimes are almost nothing. To put it this way, don't be or wear that adjective as the predecessor did for a while so they called it stand Bajić or stand by in some statements or in some cases and please conduct these cases to the end and that it would not be the same as in the cases, and you know that you said that you were working with the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Margus and others. All those others who escaped like this, and were free to walk the Republic of Croatia. As for the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112667	Time. There won't be any more time for that. Time's up for this replica. We'll hear Dink Cwitan's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative of the Montenegrins, I will repeat what I have told you on the board. Namely, we can't and we don't have the right to comment on media allegations. I told you then not with the intention of hurting you or in any way bringing your dignity, but I am the attorney general, not the editor-in-chief, and I cannot in this way deny any statements of these or those. The fact is you pointed to a very small space which is dedicated to war crimes in the report, and I told you then and I'll tell you here that every year at the end of the year all data is published on the DORH website, complete data on war crimes processing cases, it's done here as well. So you have data, you have table views, you're talking about some of the most important items, so you can find it on the DORH website. And I'm going to say again if we're going to burden the report in this way in each segment with 20, 30, 50 pages on one side for us it's very difficult to do this within a given time limit legally until 30 April to bring the report and on the other hand that report will be a huge report and I don't know if it would serve its purpose. Maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112669	7. Replic, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112670	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Cvitan, this report of yours that you have initially explained correctly covered all segments of the DORH's jurisdiction in the prosecution of criminal offences across all areas. However, the citizens of the DORH's work, in some way, are most perceived or evaluated by the criminal persecution of public figures, party politicians and find it difficult to take the impression that the DORH in the perception of citizens is an increasingly political arbitrationist, some sort of hygiene officer, and an increasingly minor body that must be persecuted effectively, not selectively, quickly, but with clear responsibilities that when a judicial process ends with a liberating verdict that someone should and should be held accountable in the DORH or USKOK, perhaps because many suspected media have spread it and ended in a liberating verdict. I remind you of recent cases of freed minister, former minister, one mayor, etc. Why am I saying that? At the beginning of 2015, an independent journalist, Goran Malic, appeared in public, who gave a statement that I conveyed from the media: "Josipovic called me to destroy HDZ with him, Baic and Pavic.", so continues to give. The plan was well realised and included HDZ bankruptcy, prosecution, fragmentation into miniature parts. So over the past six months of this statement, none of the names have said anything, no one has denied anything, we don't even know the DORH's position. Because I'm asking you, Mr. Cwitan, did you take any certain steps on official duty? Have you examined the truthfulness of these allegations? Because such claims should simply be removed, i.e. the suspicions of these called and most of all from the DORH himself. Because the question arises to me personally I was shocked by such a statement as a member of the HDZ. Does it even make sense to act politically in a state where someone tells us a statement like this and there are some kind of political life lords who do something in some rooms and everything happens on that ground? Here's what I'd like to ask your opinion on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112671	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dinko Cvitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Boric. You've asked a few very important and important questions here. First of all, the state's attorney is responsible for his job and the state's attorney has to press charges when he considers that the terms of the indictment have been met and that is the existence of a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. The state's attorney succeeded in his proceedings at the time when the court confirmed his indictment. The further the debate will take place, the different question. The fact is that procedures take too long. I repeat, me and myself personally and as CEO of the USKOK and now as chief state attorney, I have no idea that I'm calculating with any secret... Believe me, I'm not interested in party membership at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, I am very much aware that there is the interest of all politically active people to react in situations where they believe that members of his party or contemporaries are still taking him to the indictee's bench. It takes a lot of strength to keep that dignity, and I believe that me and my colleagues have kept it. There's no timing. The fact is that these situations are extremely complex and difficult cases, in those simple cases decisions are made quickly and decisions are made public. The question is what you said, you mentioned to the journalist that he said something. I find it hard to comment on what the journalist said. On several television shows, the journalist said things and had certain documents that we don't have, and we don't know how to give. But the very fact that it says that someone was shining, no matter who they were and if they had agreed, and had a certain goal and something agreed, the question of what crime would be. Any statement by any political person in the Republic of Croatia from the left, from the right, from the centre, can nevertheless be interpreted in a certain way, we are here to react when we consider that there are elements of the crime. The fact is, we can have the wrong assessment. And a deputy who works can make the wrong decision but he's independent in his work. Allow me, Mr. Vice President, one more thing is very important. That is, therefore, the perception of a state-of-law organisation that it's the chief state attorney who makes all the decisions, knows all the cases is the wrong perception. [[Come on, say it.]] It must be seen, of course, that the attorney general is responsible for everything and that responsibility should not be avoided but we must be aware that the deputy state attorneys, regardless of which state attorneys are coming from, are responsible for their work and ultimately if they violate those norms as prescribed by the Law on State Attorney's Office, are then against these persons and initiate a tight procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112673	Thank you. A new replica of respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112674	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Cwitan, I think your words that BUSKOK needs both improvement in material conditions and spatial conditions. We remember that in 2002, when we founded Uskokok that next year and from our own space of the ministry, we gave these spaces for USKOK which today are inadequate, or unconditional, that you have only one room for recording, one room for the files and which is certainly not enough. On the other hand, the deadlines for the investigation are really too short. And it's like everyone's trying to plant a leg on the state's attorney's office and the USCOC. So it's a weak collaboration with abroad. That's where we often keep our mouths shut, and that's where we politics have to talk more strongly about whether other countries and you have to tell us, they please us, we don't ask you in specific subjects, whether they satisfy your demand. As far as I know, the media wrote no. On the other hand, I also think that we should amend the Criminal Procedure Act and reserve for the USKOK the most serious forms, the most serious crimes of corruption and organised crime, rather than dealing with equal attention, candy and the most complex type of crime, economic crime or corruption and organised crime. So what am I saying? THE BOOK should be reserved for such crimes that he has because he has somehow won the breadth and has lost that blade. As the old Latin rule says aquila non capit muscas, so the eagle doesn't hunt flies. Therefore, it should be established or given jurisdiction to the BUSKOK only for the most serious offences. And don't just wait and report it. So how do you explain to the citizens that the factory is going down on the obvious, so people see, get fired, don't get paid, the creditors are cut off and the owner is building a hotel. That's the fact that people see, so you don't have to ask for applications, that's where you have to question things. And bookkeeping is certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112675	The answer to the replica Dinko Cvitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I've said something in the introduction about the spaces used by UskoK, so trust me on such spaces, I'd like you to come and thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I've said something in the introduction about the spaces used by USKOK, so trust me on such spaces. I'd like you to come and see what it looks like when representatives of foreign prosecutors or foreign embassies come to see it, everyone would like to see it. We're taking them to DORH's official premises because we're ashamed to take them... Last year, more than 6,000 parties went through USKOK, all registered, all spoken to. It's an impossible situation, here's to the banality that you can't use the toilet because in front of the toilet you have armed police officers and the water of the defendant in chains. I agree with you that the question of the competence of the Bounce is too wide. You know we're doing this bypassing it in a way that we're giving less complex objects to a deputy from regular state's attorney's offices, we're applying that institute, but it's not the right solution. The BOOK should deal only with the most serious forms of crime and organised and corruption, I agree with you. However, I would not agree with you in one way, if the Uskok had lost his blade. I don't think so. I don't think he's lost his blade. The fact is that our focus is spreading to many areas, that sometimes it's lost in small objects, but the question is, what's a small object? When a person is reported if it is a jumping authority so that it is 1000 or 2000 kuna, it is a big problem for him, and the decision should be legally made in all cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112677	And the last replica, the esteemed Nevenka Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112678	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. State Attorney, in your report you have made very clear, precise, objectively and professionally the issue of private housing where protected tenants live, and from the point of view of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Namely, private housing owners have been prevented from enjoying their ownership peacefully as they rise up in lawsuits and seek the protection of their rights, but in these lawsuits they fail before domestic courts but succeed in the European Court of Human Rights. Namely, they have been moved into their apartments against their will by tenants to protect the tenants. Against their will, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined to protect the rent of 2,70 lips per m2. The owners of the apartments get up with a claim against the Republic of Croatia for damages consisting of the difference between the protected rent and the market rent. I am particularly interested in your position on this issue and whether the State's Attorney's Office has any measures or mechanisms that could lead the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the decision on the level of the protected rent and to equate it with the market rent, all in order to pay the burden to the owners of private apartments as little as possible that part of the burden that will fall on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Because it is the fact that they will exercise their rights before the European Court of Human Rights and that their compensation will have to be paid from the date on which the Croatian Parliament ratified the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, i.e. From 1997 to the day when they will succeed in their legal battles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112679	Replication response, Attorney General Cvitan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, the fact is that the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are in a certain way a source of law in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that courts, as well as the State's Attorney's Office, are closely following all decisions made and in this context, generally giving specific suggestions to the restoring ministry. So we as a state attorney's office can be and we are initiators of certain legislative changes, but whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose to this high home to amend certain laws cannot affect this. In any case, I think you have made a good point here, which is the fact that the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are a source of law in Croatia and, on the other hand, as stated in the report, and that there have been objections from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where certain cases have been pointed out in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the fact is that we are keeping an account, that in some cases there have been wrong decisions, or not decisions, but inadequate updates, and of course I would not say any of these, but simply referring to something that I might not see for myself, educationally and well, in order to address these shortcomings in the work in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112681	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President of the Committee, Honored Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 at its 67th session held on 28 May 2015. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members held the opinion that the report under consideration gives a full review of the work of the state's attorney's office, the USKOK and all the county and municipal state's attorneys. Speaking of the present movement and the structure of the reported crime in the Republic of Croatia, they agreed with the rapporteur's assessment that the decline in the number of criminal charges against unknown perpetrators 14%, a significant decline against celebrities and 13% and younger minors again 14%, only part of which can point to positive trends in the fall of crimes among minors and minors. Concern has been expressed over the fact that the necessary material and personnel conditions are not fully ensured so that the state's attorney's office can act within the legal time limits. As it is said, it is unacceptable that state attorneys are unable to obtain the necessary information equipment for all workers who need it for daily work, that they are faced with serious spatial problems only with a major drain of personnel. As a long-term problem, particularly highlighted personnel defaults in particular the lack of personnel specialised in certain areas, and the inability to hire trainees, which will later reflect the selection of staff in the State Attorney's Office. Given the difficulties in employment, the question raised primarily by insufficient financial resources is how to ensure equal representation of members of national minorities in state attorneys. It has been pointed out that the data presented have been repeated for several years in a row, and that there has not yet been a necessary twist in this area. The clarification of data on women's high representation in the state's attorney's offices was requested above 6%, particularly data showing that the percentage of women in the municipal state's attorneys and 90% in Karlovac, for example, and in the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, 84% of them are women. So it's a reverse problem of what's being set up on this committee. It has been pointed out that the Committee is particularly interested in the monitoring of crimes against humanity and human dignity in particular for the crimes of war crimes and trafficking in human beings, in accordance with its section of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Crimes against human rights and fundamental freedoms, and crimes committed by hatred. Since the number of criminal charges, procedures initiated, and particularly judgments for these acts are relatively small, an explanation of such data has been requested. A total of 37 new applications have been filed for the crime against humanity and human dignity. One year earlier, there were 59 of them, 21 of them involving crimes of war crimes, 8 of them applying to crimes of trafficking in human beings, and two of them related to other crimes. In the case of hate crimes, 45 reports have been recorded in the course of 30 cases of reconnaissance or carrying out demonstrations, and 10 cases have been indicted during the past year. All 6 requests for a peaceful settlement of the dispute over discrimination of which 5 requests have not been accepted, and one request has been requested to show the competent authorities. During 2014, a total of 5 first-degree rulings were received, of which two convictions rejected prosecutors with claims of discrimination, in two prosecutors withdrew the service, in part an appeal which was eventually rejected after a complaint by the State's attorney's office. Finally, when it comes to the work of the State Attorney's Office in the processing of war crimes, members of the Committee supported co-operation with the State's attorneys of other countries and international institutions in order to obtain the necessary information on the perpetrators of these crimes. However, the opinions are that data on war crimes are insufficient or very summed up in the report, and comprehensive data should be provided in the following reports. In addition, given the number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights, investigations into the crime of war crimes have been related, and in particular taking into account the increase in the number of decisions of the court relating to investigations of war crimes in which requests have been declared illegal but the resignation of prosecutors from the application should be better presented by the State Attorney's Office with the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, given the authority of the State Attorney's Office that, at the request of the State authorities, the draft contracts to which the State acquires or alienates property were requested to show whether the State's attorney had given an opinion on the conclusion of a settlement between the two legal entities to which the third party is charged. Therefore, housing users in areas of special state concern, in particular in Vukovar, which prevents users from buying apartments. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion on the acceptance, which accepts the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112683	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. Do the presidents of other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112684	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. It's a serious thing, but I'd start with a finding that might be interesting. Coming to Parliament, the chief state attorney delivers a report that expects to be accepted, preferably unanimously or largely. I believe that this is the position your predecessor had, and then in Parliament we accepted his report, but we did not elect him to be the head of state's attorney. Therefore, only accepting the report can be counter-proportional to your term of office. I don't, of course, hope not, and I believe that this report will be discussed as appropriate, although we will make the most of the comments we have here. I would say that this is the first report of your first full year of office and that what as before reports is comprehensive, precisely, it is meant to be able to monitor everything that has been done by the State's Attorney's Office during 2014 and most often does not correspond to the public's interest and the interest of this Parliament. In fact, what you can expect in Parliament is that here we have colleagues who are extraordinary investigators, prosecutors, lawyers, often and judges in cases that are most often insufficiently known or who know the elements of some of the processes that are being conducted, most often misunderstood but that is why they are still misrepresented. I hope they're not here right now, but they're usually very up-to-date in the debates on certain items that are of interest to the public and to our media. Let me, on behalf of the HDZ Club, first of all, praise something that I think is the difference from the years we've discussed in this House, which is what seems to me that the State's Attorney's office has significantly reduced its daily public appearance, especially the person in charge of the attorney general, seems to me to be more committed to the business and less to his picture in public. I believe that this is an extremely good solution for everyone, and especially for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. So we said as before this report is pedantic, this report is comprehensive but does not respond to the most often attractive things that are raised in public as a question when it comes to the work of the State's Attorney's office. On the other hand, we have one comment, and on the occasion that if you look at the report text with all these illustrations, the charts are on some 150 pages, the last part is those table views which is less important for this occasion, two thirds of the reports refer to one of the branches of the rights that are placed in the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office. It's a criminal act. One third of the reports refer to the other two not equally but perhaps more important powers of the State's Attorney's Office, which is an action in civil matters and action in administrative matters. We're going to talk about this, something the state's attorney wrote in his report, given the new way of administrative trial. So, what seems to be our legacy, and it seems to me that it's bad for the general interest of the state, is that we inherited the principle of the former prosecution that most of the things when we talk about the State's Attorney's office are based on criminal matters, forgetting these other two branches of rights that I think are particularly important because it speaks of extremely high possible damages, amounts, etc. which I will try to illustrate through my discussion. You have, in the introduction of the report, spoken of several things, one authority and responsibility of the main state attorney and the lower state attorneys and deputies and suggested that perhaps in the National Attorney General's Council, the role of the attorney general would be strengthened, given that his closest associates, who are independent in their work, were named in that body, and only the principal attorney-general, could give them instructions, thus limiting their independence by giving written and reasoned mandatory guidance to act in accordance with Article 54. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office and only when such guidance is required for the uniform application of the law. We're all aware that there are unwritten clues that may be used, perhaps not. Formally, this finding of yours is right but it may be missing for an illustration of how many duly written reasoned instructions you have given to your deputies to act in a particular matter. However, we are aware of the fact that the position of the attorney general allows and that without a written trace may be limited to the independence of the lawyer but this may be less important for this debate, it is important that they be effective and as objective as possible. On the other hand, we think that if the Council of State wishes to fulfil its purpose, it must have the option of electing a state lawyer, and not that the primary choice depends on the opinion of the Attorney General, as is the case at the end of the case in the State Judicial Council. Because regardless of the opinion of the President of the Supreme Court, the State Judicial Council does not always have to agree with the choice of the person proposed by the President. And I think that correction is actually good. I kind of want to tell you that we wouldn't give you more opportunity to influence the decision-making of the State Attorney's Council than it does today. What is to praise, I have followed your rare, and I commend that they are rare, performing in public, and you are today in the introduction and talking about it. You said that in 2014 the courts made decisions to confiscate the property benefits of 202 million kuna and that 175 million kuna was frozen, which in some way would represent 377 million kuna. When we put this in total funds for work that are 311 million kunas if we can simply calculate and this is not all property that is under some control, it turns out that the costs of all lawyers are overall less than the actual financial benefits achieved by your actions. Given the times I'm going to have to skip some parts and not speak just praisefully, so in some way skip over what's going on in your accommodation, the problems of financial nature you have in view of the information equipment. We have only one proposal, if it is not possible to engage information experts within the State's Attorney's Office, we suggest that you consider, in particular, you in the Attorney's Office and the Government that for the State's attorneyship and the affairs of those institutions that exist and are dealing with such affairs, I will remind you that there is one company that deals with information affairs which is 51% owned by a state that has allegedly a whole range of new employees who are both involved in IT support and in other segments of the State's administration, so it is possible that they can do these jobs without new employment in the State's Attorney's Office and for the State's Attorney's Office. However, we would now say something about a few interesting things that can be read from this report. In this report, the suggestion of a state lawyer to the government of the Republic of Croatia can also be found, this will become a promenade, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should possibly be changed in terms of the fact that this burdens the work of the State's Attorney's Office. So you have thus suggested some laws that in some ways make it difficult or more complicated to work as a State's Attorney's Office. One of the things is that I already mentioned an administrative trial where there are now administrative disputes as much more serious to say in a court of law than it was before, which is why it should be adequately held within the State's Attorney's office so that you can satisfy your functions. Secondly, it is a matter of executive cases that have reduced the burden or pressure on courts, but at the same time remained equally burdensome to the State's Attorney's office that we are not talking about what you have suggested is possible to expect additional efforts of the budget, given that this government has succeeded and put the Law on Public Executives out of force, so it is exposed to additional damages that have not yet been resolved. What I think is extremely important for the civil branch of the trial, and it's mentioned on page 132 and 133 of the report, that I stop, I have to admit that it's a little difficult for me to listen to you at the same time. I can't hear you, Mr. President, I'm used to listening to you, so if you'll allow me, I'd be happy to finish up instead of this bourgeois. ... Well, I knew there was a mistake on that side. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, an extremely important legal opinion under the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, namely I assume on the proposal of the State's Attorney's Office, has been the obligation for all state bodies to seek the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office in the conclusion of legal affairs, although at least according to the number of cases, it is the right to use it. And then on page 133, it says there are legal opinions under special laws. The obligation to obtain legal opinion from the state's attorney's office before the conclusion of certain types of contracts are prescribed by among other laws on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia. And a wonderful finding to praise the work of this Government, in 2014 please, we did not have in the work contracts concluded under this law, not a single strategic investment contract that the state authorities are obliged to give to the State's attorney's office was accepted into the work which would allow us to conclude that these strategic investments if the conclusion was quite simple there was not. That's given the praise we've been listening to in the election campaign lately. The second question is, is it because the state authorities no longer have to ask the state's attorney's opinion to be questioned, and we believe that a whole series of serious legal matters that take place without the opinion of the state's attorney's office are of a questionable quality? I'll remind you soon to be on the agenda one of these jobs is to explore gas and oil or if you want a hydrocarbon in the Adriatic, which we'll specifically talk about. The 2014 State Audit Report speaks of serious doubts as to what is said and said by the attorney general seems to be a reasonable doubt that there have been abuses and crimes among others in privatising one of our large companies and these are the reasons why we look at the activity of the state's attorney in a particularly new way. In addition, we must highlight the protocol on co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was signed by the state's attorney and later showed great problems in the use of documentation that later pursues the political persecution of Croatian citizens and now from Bosnia and Herzegovina's body and that I am not talking about the worst case of the State's Attorney's Office, which is the case of the extradition of Mr. Perkovic and Mustac and the actions of two county state attorneys in the opposite way. In one case, in order to say the benefit of a party or a country which was obliged to represent the Republic of Germany, and the other time on the contrary, so that the two county attorneys made completely different decisions, which seems to us given the importance of the case, but also the actions of the State's Attorney's Office that it is unacceptable. These are, because of the time I have to finish, some of the questions that we hold to this kind of report without emphasis on some important subjects we will not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112685	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to bother you because you've been talking a little longer. We have replicas. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112686	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mlakar, that you commended this report and we praised it on the board for a part, but there are some things in this report that are no longer in relation to last year or last year. If you remember last year we had certain reports related to open graves, mass graves and caves in both the Republic of Croatia and other countries, unfortunately there is no more. We have abolished the truth and this Office for the Research of Communist Crimes and the question is whether it wants to be put away somehow to forget and protect itself, in fact, by the employers or perpetrators of these crimes, which is not in this report that you are now talking about on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here's what I'd like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112687	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112688	Dear colleague Babic, I guess I've been talking for a long time and I have long introductions, and then we have circles, and I haven't been able to process everything in this speech on behalf of the club. I wanted to talk about the fact that still one big problem is to investigate war crimes and World War II, and especially war crimes committed in the Homeland War, given all those women who were special victims, civilian victims of the Homeland War where I would say unsatisfactory engagement or the results of the state's attorney's work. They have already spoken of this many times, so it is only our duty and obligation to remind ourselves that we believe it was possible to do much more and that we can still do more than what has been done so far. And on the other hand, what you're saying is that we're ending this office, and unfortunately, or fortunately, we can't really attribute it to the attorney general, we can attribute it to the council majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112689	Thank you too, dear colleague. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112690	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I have listened carefully to your debate and, of course, I agree with the part in which you commended this report that the beginning is correct in one way. But I think you'll agree with me that the public is interested in why the State's Attorney's Office has not responded to a series of cases, and I'll only count three. Mr. State Attorney said he didn't trust the press, but I don't know that Mr. State Attorney doesn't trust the then Minister Linic, who called in the reality of Prime Minister Milanovic, who favored his brother's company to get a favourable loan from HBOR, and that story and tape is being dragged away for a very long time and I'm sure the public is interested in whether it is true, whether the Milanovic premiums have been granted or not, whether he took advantage of his prime minister position. Then you mentioned an interpretation of the government's work, and it is likely that this information here in the Parliament will be brought down to the lower and lower agenda, but the public is interested because it is concrete that Spectrum has been granted without a public tender for research. And that's true. The DORH itself spoke in its report should be obliged to make that clear, but it is equally well-founded and expressed doubts that this government favors individuals in reality regarding this research which is a strategic project allegedly of this government. Is it strategic guesses or is it strategic something else? There's a third one, and that's a non-payment of wages that's a felony. There are state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112691	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112692	I can only finish a sentence, please. There are therefore state-owned companies where there has been no payout for two years, the DORH should question or the State's Attorney's Office, you will agree with me on who's guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112693	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112694	I didn't understand the answer of my colleague twilight in the same way to the attorney general that he didn't trust the press, but I understood that he can't really act on every piece of information found in the media like this, and I totally understand it there. But what you've asked is a much bigger question that we've also failed to process. Thus, using the resources of the state budget, this government very often pays extremely high amounts for various consultants who need to advise the same government in certain legal matters. At the same time, there's a state's attorney's office that she said I'm going to be doing colloquially until yesterday, certainly for much less money, and which I'm sure today and tomorrow might be able to do this job in an adequate way, without saying what she might do to get some of the funds that are intended for foreign, mostly foreign consultants for these big jobs. and there would probably always be a sufficient number of people and time for such capital projects to be done in a quality way. First, however, the obligation of state authorities to seek the opinion of the State Attorney's Office was first deleted, and then they moved to the consulting spheres. Now we can only guess what that would mean. As for respected people, members of the government who make concrete accusations against leaders or other colleagues in public, this is certainly the subject of saying which should be of interest to the state's attorney. And I don't think you could get an answer the same way as when someone else in the public broke up condemning someone your colleague. This is an extremely important question, but we didn't get an answer as to whether anything was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112695	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boris has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112696	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mlakar, following your opening presentation, I return to my replica on the assessment of the work of the DORH by the public of citizens because I say, I repeat, it is being evaluated and it may not be good, but the fact is that the media's most sound cases are being carried out. For example, we have different actions in the area when it comes to land re-use, the adoption of spatial plans, the re-sale of the same. We have witnessed here the shifts of a number of ministers, as many as nine in these few years, some have left because of e-mails, some because of incompetence. One minister had to leave because he was accused, i.e. It went out publicly that he was dealing with some kind of pre-purpose land, that he was buying favorably, reselling, changing spatial plans, and indeed that story was quite fierce in public and the minister was leaving after the public pressure. When the minister leaves, there's no more information after that. So we're talking about some picture of DORH, that's. whether it is misused or used, means whether or not the DORH is used for any calculation. Because after that, here's almost two years, there's not one more word about what happened in those 10 days. Because we have another case, one mayor who's been held for it twice, twice released, etc., that's pretty fresh, and we see that story still unfolding, i.e.. There'll probably be some possible charges or there won't be. We also have a third example of a SDP official who did the same thing but nothing happened to him. So we have a different attitude. And it's almost unacceptable, on page 51, there are almost no crimes in 2014 of illegal employment. Well, we have information daily in the media how people in the state administration are employed. The SDP's own officials say they call us daily to take care of these people. The minister on the road offers jobs. Well, I think we're warning the state's attorney here right now. that he must in some way work on it, on equal terms with all cases and that some cases have an end. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, turn off your phone, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112697	Thank you very much. Time's up. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112698	Comrade Boric, now you've gone too far. The minister made a phone call in 2015 and the report refers to 2014, when jobs were not shared by cell phone, there was obviously another way. We talked about it and it will often be heard there is no reasonable doubt that someone committed a crime. Even with a local official, we found that he was burdened and employed by some suspicious way of hiring. But I think it's in a flood of criminal acts that would be suspected of an insignificant act. There are a lot more serious crimes that would be suspected of a reasonable suspicion where we didn't get any information about whether anything happened. In that plea in conflict of interest it is always questionable, you have here a report on the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. But when a responsible person, the finance minister publicly speaks of the suspicion of the crimes of top officials, the state's attorney cannot remain deaf and cannot say that there is no reasonable doubt that something happened. And so far, the results show that nothing happened in that whole story. On the other hand, if it acts publicly, it will turn out that the state's attorney's office has again taken the role of an arbiter in pre-election months and will then be found to discuss whether or not to act against political persons in the year that follows us, or in the time behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112699	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112700	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Llakar, well, I'm going to touch the two things you've been talking about, is one fact that the state authorities no longer have the obligation to communicate with the state's attorney's office regarding the conclusion of certain agreements. And from that fact, it certainly has resulted in several likely abuses that we can clearly extract from the fact that this company Spectrum is given the opportunity to explore hydrocarbons without a public competition etc., etc. But even more speculative is the behaviour in sales and privatisation you said one large company and I will tell Croatia insurance. Why? Because we have in the State Auditor's report and clearly indicated that this is an illegal act. Unlawful treatment. I therefore think that, of course, it is 2015, or 2014 in which we should have had some steps in my opinion of the State's Attorney's Office. Because the review report has been made public and is clearly called for illegal treatment. The second situation is of course related to the conduct of the state's attorney's office in cases of extradition of Perkovic and Mustac. It is simply inappropriate for one State Attorney's Office to act in accordance with the law and not represent the party to be represented, which was the other side of the state which requested legal assistance and which the State's attorney was to represent. We had the fact that the state's attorney's office didn't comply with the law in that case and that it was simple, that it was deafened and that it didn't file a complaint for a first-degree verdict. Fortunately there were other legal options, and other legal remedies ultimately the Supreme Court made the right decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112701	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112702	Well, my colleague Matušić, not to return to the case now, did well but the damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia remained. We may be able to reduce it over the years, but those who remember will remember what we said back then. The result could have been achieved without all this shame, and the procedure takes place exactly where we said it had to happen under all the circumstances. What you're saying, that's why I insisted on this second large branch of responsibility for the state's attorney, which is working in civil matters and that opinion on legal affairs and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Obviously, with this ultimate intention, someone has concluded in time that the state attorney's office, who often disputed in his action, is dangerous enough for someone's interests in giving legal opinions, so they have kicked him out as an obligation to get opinions out of the law so that contracts can be manipulated and concluded on behalf of God, and in fact, at the expense of the Republic of Croatia without the opinion of the one who has to represent them. I haven't touched at all international disputes and everything we pay for fair trial or long-term proceedings, but the fact is that the government is much more suited by foreign consultants than that PR expert who's supposed to pay 4 million kuna, so who knows how many contracts to explore hydrocarbons because it's a much larger area of possible corruption that you can't control. It's so simple to say. And now the state's attorney's office is still out of that story, and it can only work when there's a reasonable doubt about what these artists were doing during that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112703	Thank you very much. We continue to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly on the same topic. Now Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112704	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General. I will begin my discussion of your report with what you have completed the report, and these are the conclusions you have made. The first conclusion is: The State's Attorney's Office was in '14. the year maintained a high level of awareness, efficiency and quality of work. The intensive legislative changes did not have an important impact on the orderly and legal conduct of the business. Therefore, you are apostrophe of frequent intensive changes in the legislative system in this area and you are warning that by amending the Criminal Procedure Act, which no one disputes the right of the applicant to report damages, victims and defendants during the conduct of the reconnaissance, investigation, investigation, to file complaints against the authorities and to the investigating judge. However, the same complaints shall also be lodged by other bodies to which you must or must respond, which shall be spent by staff resources in the State's attorneys. You are warning of amendments to the Criminal Code that should be more rapid and effective, but its amendments are prescribed for example. and the obligation of a State lawyer to be required by the person subject to the indictment to submit a written notice which must be signed by the perpetrator, and all the assembly is part of the mandatory file for the court which also delays the proceedings. You are apostropherates and amendments to the Law on Violent Procedures which have also led to me, I would say to the actions and procedures that make it difficult and lengthen certain actions that are necessary. As far as the deadlines are concerned, it is interesting that, in fact, part of the police, and part of the law of the deadline of certain activities, we have shortened the shops, and when Croatian courts are involved in these laws, the deadlines are not known. So the advantage of the justice that exists is just still fascinating to me. You also warn of the fact that the State Attorney's Council of Attorneys' appointments, the opinion of the Attorney General should have far greater influence, and that the Law on the State's Attorney's Office has reduced the powers of the Attorney General even though in Croatia there is a government perception of the great powers of the Attorney General. That's five points you're warning about changes made last year. You left out the warning, so that's what I'm doing, another problem. In Croatia, this is a responsible, investigative prison only for the poor and fools, for the poor who do not have 15 million to pay bail, for example, or for fools who do not address the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court began to introduce a new practice, firstly that it began to judge the measure of things and secondly that out of prison, an investigative prison lets all those who are not ordinary citizens but officials or politicians. I think it's a dangerous beginning to involve the Constitutional Court in the judiciary, but let it remain on the conscience of those who do so. Secondly, I noticed from your report that the State's Attorney's Office doesn't have a department of property benefit research obtained by committing a crime, they don't have a county state's attorney's office in Osijek, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka even though they should have. There's a jump, and they don't because there's no money. The disproportionateness of property and income, an old rule if you want to discover a thief, follow a trail of money or what once was called an examination of the origins of property acquired by corruption, theft, fraud, smuggling, drug business. That's why I consider it a difficult part of your job. Turning crime under the Constitution has not become obsolete, and war profit has not gone into obsolescence and despite great expectations, promises seem to me that we have two war profiteers still unjustly condemned. One of them is also a great war profiter because of my vision if I'm not mistaken for profiting or falsifying some kind of war profit. Frozen or seized assets based on first-degree judgments worth 202 million. Of 1205 people most often as a result of theft. 175 million decisions by the State's Attorney's Office were frozen because measures were carried out to ensure the ban on the possession of the property. It is property of which more than 50% of the value was owned or owned, and it is prohibited to have 2 or 3 persons in 2 or 3 persons in 2, 3 large court proceedings. And I am not satisfied with the fact that the issue of confiscation of property, so first by insurance measures and later by judgments, the confiscation of property acquired is still at a low level. And this is probably because in Croatia in tax evasion and in determining the acquisition of property through tax evasion, the Tax Administration cuts the tax, collects the fine, and therefore satisfies the property that is thus acquired remains owned. And I think that in this relationship with the Tax Administration and the application of the principle nothing that is illegally acquired cannot remain owned we have a problem in Croatia. The following conclusions, which have concluded your report, reads: "It is impossible to provide the necessary human resources without the admission of trainees and the required number of state attorneys as a premise for the appointment of deputy state attorneys. And the results achieved because of the situation described in advance have been achieved primarily thanks to the exceptional over the average involvement of all state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, officials and deputies, which in itself does not create the conditions of a sustainable system. This sentence is an alarm. Mr Cvitan wrote to the Parliament that the situation in the State's Attorney's Office today is such that it does not guarantee the sustainability of the system. 1636 employees of 15 county attorneys, 33 municipal, USKOK and only the State Attorney's Office are the following. Unfulfilled jobs, two County State's Attorney's office, 8 municipal state's attorneys, 133 of which 9 in DORH, 35 in county, 89 in municipal state's attorneys. It's missing. 159 advisors, 181 trainees, are unfulfilled, and we don't talk to officers with special knowledge. This is an alarm because it's part of the devastation of the state's attorney's system, the human-devastion system. And it's obviously going to push another year, two, three, and later everything can go to hell because we're also going to accept this report on the Parliament, and the budget for next year is pretending that this report in the Parliament wasn't even there. As many as 311 million kunas were available, I quote: "There is no money for artisaning in financial economic matters, there is no money for the payment of advances for carrying out evidence before courts, which otherwise means that the party has dropped the suit. The lack of funds could question and protect the property and property interests of the Republic of Croatia." He's finding Mr. Cvitan. So, we are jeopardizing, putting into a situation the possibility that the interest, the property interests of the Republic of Croatia are compromised because the executive power and Parliament through the budget do not provide enough money for the operation of the entire system of state attorneys. Spacious conditions at 16 locations, no internet or HItro.NET or local information network. There is no electronic file management everywhere because 550 computers are missing, and the spatial conditions of USKOK, the lawyers' offices in Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Pula, Rijeka, Sibenik, Varazdin, Čakovec and Zagreb are unsatisfactory. When I asked the Minister of Justice about this recently during a debate on one law, he said it was not true, that both the judicial system, the judiciary and the courts had enough money with it alone. This time we are faced with the claim by the attorney general that the system we have in the long run is not sustainable. And all those who will accept this report, and do nothing to fix it simply, you will be the accomplices of the possible continuation of this devastation. In Croatia, there is a fam that non-payment of salaries is a criminal offence and that workers are protected. There were 269 applications from the field of labour relations and social security, a 102% growth. But 147 or 54% of the applications were rejected from which 108 were related to payouts and that the state's attorney could not comply with Article 132. The penal code because those salaries were not paid because the employer had a blocked account or had no money. And tomorrow we will testify again by the Prime Minister's statements that his government has imposed wage default as a criminal offence. So it's not a crime. 37 judgments brought by the courts last year for violation of labour rights of 25 paroles, 3 fines, 2 repulsory and 7 appeal proceedings that are ongoing. According to this data, Croatia has no problem with violations of labour rights. The area of organised crime, 153 persons in 2014, was 215, 2012 272. This decline in the number of persons involved in organised crime leads me to the conclusion that in Croatia, indeed, everything is falling, including organised crime or lack of expert personnel, so they are becoming less and less organised. But I would find it hard to believe that this is true because most cases refer to drug trafficking, illegal drug business and borders, apparently migrants. Corruption, 536 people in the last 1039 years before that. The number of persons prosecuted for corrupt crimes has been halved. This is another proof that there is a serious crisis in Croatia, and in the course of corrupt activities, it was obvious that the number of corrupt actions and persons involved in them was halved compared to the year before. And when I read the finding that the less-determined fees for the absence of a trial within a reasonable period of 10 million in 2013 to 2 million and 800 in 2014 had already fallen, I hoped that because the courts had begun to judge within a reasonable period of time, and then I read that it was not because of that, but because the courts increasingly reject or reject the claims because, watch out now, they take account of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. It is fortunate that European courts do not look at the economic situation and opportunities in Croatia, so they have increased the amount of compensation citizens make. And finally the question, Mr. Cvitan. What protection measures, what degree of protection do you enjoy as a state's attorney? If I'm not mistaken by law, you should be under second degree protection. How's the co-operation with the police force? And in the report, I didn't find a single sentence of a new form of organised crime in Croatia, and that's the mafia that deals with special waste management. Which makes a large part of its income directly or indirectly from the state budget. Can you at least say in terms of what extent the State's Attorney's Office is dealing with this new type of crime in the Republic of Croatia? And those questions about protection measures, I would certainly ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112705	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lesar, your debate has in many ways triggered one thought, in fact, a broader debate that we have never joined here in Parliament, which is that no independent institution like the State's Attorney's Office is an island and is completely independent of the work of other institutions. And she offered me the replica of your finding regarding the Constitutional Court's work and the Constitutional Court's decisions in some cases when, of course, it was considered an investigative prison. And that's something we should have the courage to publicly talk about without being perceived as politicians who want to pressure anyone's work, the Constitutional Court, the DORH or the courts in general. In fact, we have witnessed in at least two relevant cases that the Constitutional Court has, in fact, decided in similar processes, similar investigations in different ways when we are, of course, talking about investigative prison lengths and the conduct of the duties of individual politicians. You all know what I'm talking about. In order for the State Attorney's Office to have all the fullness and strength in its work, then, of course, it must have the guarantee of a uniform judicial and any other practice and practice of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is of course not a classical court, but I am also speaking and extending the subject of course, and the decisions of other courts, in particular the Supreme Court, which confirms ultimately and which is the point on and from the beginning of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the police, to the course of the first degree and then the final judgment. As we are here, and already there have been different decisions of the county courts in some proceedings where the state's attorneys disagreed on So, we have to open this debate once. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112707	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112708	I agree with you, Comrade Kosor. That is why I have also apostropheded the fact that several decisions have led the Constitutional Court to how many of their decisions I have seen and the scale of the things itself, so it was not just about protecting human rights, and there was no serious debate in Croatia. It is also important to note the issue of an investigative prison when it is determined by politicians, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who deal with politics at any level, have always followed a decision that the regular judiciary and the State's attorney's office must find other measures of protection. The Constitutional Court also introduced a new institute that was nowhere in the law... In the case of officials, which is a ban on carrying out activities, duties would be said and the Parliament has not responded to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for all that, I am free to claim that I have the feeling that the Constitutional Court has settled into a regular trial shop and placed myself above the Supreme Court. Now whether the Supreme Court itself is guilty of incurring judgments to some cases, and then intervened by the Constitutional Court, I wasn't directed enough, but so long as we really didn't open that debate and until we saw what started to happen with that kind of tampering. I'm afraid that in such situations we'll have more, and it seems to me that the state's attorney's office will be in a position to offer or use measures as little as possible and to propose investigative prisons when it grabs someone who deals with politics with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112709	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112710	Dear colleague Lesar, you have just devoted a large part of your report to a segment that this House, whenever it receives a report from the attorney general, simply leaves out, and these are the conditions in which state attorneys and deputies work, spatial, material, human resources. So we almost say every year we get a report, maybe it's a report from previous years that wasn't as open, clearly and directly about all the material conditions of the state's attorney's work as it was done this year. And I can testify to you that it is true and true. I remember one case two years ago when only one jump state attorney had to deal with 33 indictees in one procedure. He was alone, he didn't have an assistant, he didn't have anyone. This is what we really expect from the state's attorney's office some time wonders, to be effective, to make quick decisions, to make, to have eyes and back, to process everything alive, and that's simply impossible under these conditions. When you look at this report of the government that we have attached, the government has simply silenced this part of the report relating to the material conditions and the work of the state's attorney's office, considering that it is sufficient. We are here to discuss courts, always courts in the first place, the state's attorneys are always in the second plan, and so are spatial and material assumptions. I mean, what you said seems like a good idea to me now on the next state budget, let's remind ourselves of this report and all of what the attorney general said about the difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112711	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112712	Dear colleagues, Ozbolt, when the chief state attorney concludes his report with a statement that the results achieved so far are the result of the average engagement of all employees at all levels of the state's attorney's office, but that in itself it does not create the conditions of a sustainable system. When the report says that because of the lack of employment of advisers, trainees and officials with special titles, I guess we all understand what it means to know, there is a danger that there will be no future recruiting of deputy state attorneys, including county, municipal, state-run lawyers. If that's not the alarm, if the Parliament goes over it and into the budget, when it doesn't say we hear a cry, we hear the alarm bell, we have to fix it, then it just means that leaving it in the state's attorney's office is a decision, a political decision that we want it to be so, and that we don't care how things continue to develop. That is why I have devoted most of my debate to this because in the last three months, the Parliament has been discussing hundreds of reports that are coming before us, saying these reports, and after that nothing is happening. Now we're not discussing anything, but a report from the state, tomorrow we're going to talk to the President of the Supreme Court about the state of the court. They will also indicate the problem of this,... Our obligation from the opposition ranks is to expect the government to understand this, but on the government's view that part, that chapter of the report has not been read at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you delivered them the same book as we did, or if they had any other reports?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112713	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112714	Thank you. I would completely agree with you that this part of the State's Attorney's Office's report is very important when it comes to the material conditions under which the State's Attorney's Office works, and especially the USCOK. Information or impulses that these conditions are very difficult not only come from this report of the State's Attorney's Office but also come from different sides because let's say so from the field. So there's a lot of it, that's not news. It is good for the state's attorney's office to present it in this one public document that comes before the Croatian Parliament. Let me remind you, for example, that for example, the budget of the BOOK is extremely small, whether it is about 50 million kuna, and that we are through the work of USKOK, in fact, to double-return each year the amount that the state budget costs in the first place. That we had a foreign judicial academy, but that we had real cases that the total state attorney's office or USKOK on education had no money and spent several thousand kunas on education at year level, and that some state agencies spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on the education of their employees, including millions of kuna a year, and that in fact, the USKOK shows in a six-month report I think it spent five or seven thousand kuna on the education of employees. This shows on the third hand what we need to expect from the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK it's just to do their job. In a projection that is quite present in Croatian society, they are often expected to change Croatia, of course they cannot change Croatian society. They just like all of us need to do our job well, and it is up to us to enable them to work through material conditions. And those who need to change Croatia are still the ones who pass the laws on that state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112715	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112716	You are right, colleague Djurovic, and these warnings are coming from the field. You have an absurd situation, if by now by miraculous rebalancing and finding money for hiring the necessary people, there is another problem, to say the spatial conditions in USKOK make it impossible for people to own and give them a desk, but not only in UskoK, Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Pula, Rijeka, Sibenik, Varazdin, Čakovec and Zagreb municipal and county state attorneys do not have adequate space, nor for now the number of employees, let alone fill in what is missing. And so this is an alarming warning that this system is no longer sustainable. And now if we don't do anything to change it, what background, what message are we sending? Let's keep it that way. That's what I'm afraid of, either this report or Parliament should discuss or adopt. Which is the purpose of the report rather than having, based on what we've seen, heard, seen from it, so when we pass laws, we read these warnings that one move or move through the law we're doing in violation, the Penal Code of Criminal Procedure has consequences on both their work and the police and the police department, the state's attorneys. However, you will see on Friday after the vote of this document there will be no more or no one will care about this book anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112717	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The club of independent leftists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Vukšić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112718	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Attorney General Cvitan, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of the presentation I must announce one news that certainly interests everyone and intrigues the Croatian public, namely UEFA allowed the play of the football match Croatia-Bulgaria in Split with viewers but without grass. If it is to judge by the inspiration of the author of the fascist drawing on the human lawn, they do not seem to care about grass, but they do not want to remain white. Of course I'm kidding. When Police Minister Ostojic makes jokes that the stadium is likely to have been examined by an ex-Miss, don't blame me if this information is guilty, but that's the story. The Croatian state is the state in which the State's Attorney General has the brightest future of all institutions. It's simply because prosecutors have work to do indefinitely, and by the state of society they'll have it forever. Sometimes he may take a breath thanks exclusively to his greatest enemy, the popular name in these places called "the statute of limitations." The Attorney General appoints prosecutors, the Parliament appoints a chief state attorney at the government's proposal. If the attorney general makes a mistake in appointing or resolving a certain prosecutor, it may not cause any particular damage. But if we in Parliament make a mistake in appointing or supporting the attorney general, then the damage is imminent. We unfortunately live in society and time when every professional and hardworking, unwavering prosecutor deserves every admiration. And this is quite certain work that requires full engagement and most of those people who work at the State's Attorney's office are doing hard, responsible and dangerous work, so we didn't say anything later. But I hope we don't wait too long for a day when such admiration will become excessive, and the exceptions will become those prosecutors who haven't been quite able to do their job. Let's stop admiring the work we have to do. As far away as that day is concerned, I would not like to judge by Mr. Bajic's sentence which he publicly apologized for because she was awkwardly engaged, but even before the verdicts talked about it, which is that the prosecutor is like an unwanted child that no one loves. She's not quite correct, but she's basically correct. So I won't say much about this material segment, but it's quite evident that we only verbally support when we support the work and work of the responsible State Attorney's office, but everything about the money itself, which is also the space where they work, the equipment they work with, is absolutely certain that the state shows by example or authority, and now we're talking about the current government, not the former authorities or the former government was as good as possible. Chief State Attorney Dinko Civtan is in the morning list, so if it is incorrect, correct me since 13.5.2015, he said he is urgently seeking 143 prosecutors because no one wants to work in DORH. Now the question is, does Mr. Chief Attorney have that kind of money to hire? I believe that so many prosecutors need Croatia because not only is the perception of corruption great, but everything that we haven't solved so far, and remember that we have stopped a converted robbery that doesn't go out of date and war profit. How much has been solved so far? Who's being punished? Who ended up behind bars? Now I'm going back to these that there are few who want to work at the DORH. Paying the county attorney, that's what I was talking about, if you remember when the report on the work of the MUP, so the minister told me that I should tell the state's attorney, so here I am now talking to the state's attorney. The salary of the county's state's attorney in Zagreb is about 15 thousand and the salary of the municipal state's attorney is also in Zagreb about 12 thousand kuna. Their deputies have a slightly lower salary. A large number of lawyers with a legal exam are on the market or for half their salary are working in law offices or private firms, but for some reason they do not want to work for twice the salary in the DORH, which guarantees a certain social reputation and promotion. Who's most invited to tell us since it's been like that, why it's like that and when it's gonna change. I'm asking all of us here because if the lawyers don't want to work as prosecutors, what do we expect from the D.O.R.H. at all, and what should we evaluate in their work? Why, in just a few days, resolutions from these influential jobs have been requested by the heads of these state-owned law enforcement authorities and are not the only experienced prosecutors at the DORH exit door. The latest example is one of Zagreb's leading prosecutors, Ana Ivanisevic Indjic. At the same time, Mrs Turkalj Dragosavac was returned to the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, which was resolved not long ago by Mladen Bajic after a disciplinary procedure was conducted. I wonder if her return means she was wrongly resolved or in the meantime she was trafficked into a high-class prosecutor. All of these human resources may have some logic and some excuse, and I believe that the state's attorney will explain them to us. It would not be fair to criticise or praise the work of the DORH if we did not go from the criteria that lead to an objective picture of the quality of work and results. For years as a journalist, now as a representative and citizen, I have observed the flood of crime the inertness of the body of persecution. From whatever point of view, my perception of the prosecution's priorities always coincided with the opinion of the highest public in Croatia. And what are the priorities? Converting crime, corruption in public portfolios, embezzlemental bankruptcy procedures as a means of privatising previously defecated state property. Now, Mr. Attorney General, these are the criteria by which the majority of those priorities will appreciate your work. I certainly don't think that winding up, smuggling and human trafficking, paedophiles, cyber crime, drug trafficking are a problem that doesn't deserve the maximum involvement of police and prosecutors. But nothing can change the fact that those three previous types of crime made us poor, humiliated and backward. These are our open wounds, and what I've been saying now, smuggling, pedophilia, cyber crime, drug trafficking are very visible bruises. When you do enough for these questions, believe me, it's the people who will see first. Then we won't need hundreds of pages of these monotone reports either, because it's just statistics, but on our applause, you'll know that we trust you very much. Then you won't get away from this phone booth, either, asking for an apology for my criticism. I thank you for saying in one interview that you've gone too far with criticism and that you realize that my criticism of your work or the work of the DORH was not malicious, which makes you a great man. There will be more criticism, I have referred it to your predecessors, but not because I would humiliate anyone but because I consider it my obligation as a parliamentary representative. If there's a reason I'm going to refer her to your heirs, because that's the simple thing about my job as an agent, whether it's a journalist or not. I'm not here to teach or direct you in your line of work, but it's clear to many how this country's repressive apparatus should operate because we listen to it for days, we read about it, and every day they talk about it under the quotes of ordinary people. I will repeat what I said to Police Minister Ostojić, as long as we do not see that the police and the DORH deal in an effective and dynamic way with destroyed companies, dissuaded workers until we are satisfied with the speed of processing the entrepreneurial, under the quotes of "great maesters and local powers" until then I am completely indifferent to reports in this form and with such arguments. I'll draw your attention to these standards of SOA which has announced that a larger stock company with a share of the state was the subject of their investigation. Most of the investigations you're supposed to be conducting shouldn't be secret at all. Some drug, smuggling and murder investigations should be secret, but Kamensky workers and hundreds of other destroyed companies don't have to squat in front of the DORH window to tell them where they're being investigated what their life means to them, Zagreb and the state. You spoke of this secrecy today, and you said there shouldn't be these investigations, many of them from a secret investigation, but it's such a law and you respect the law. We're changing the laws, Mr. Milenic, it's not up to you, it's up to Mr. Milenic, who the state's attorney says needs to take the veil off a lot of investigations, so I think it's time to take it off. Recently from this place, Police Minister Ostojic asked about the affairs of his closest associates sitting at the head of Zagreb as well as the state's PNUSKOK, and the police department, I am now asking you, sir, because Ostojic replied that about all these affairs I have asked the USKOK responsible for deciding on the prosecution of these police officers. The head of Zagreb's PNUSKOK, Zoran Filipovic, has for years been at the sight of ministers and his bosses, at least as numerous media claims have stolen the state. With a cut, the claim that he travels daily from Bizovac to Slavonia to work in Zagreb. And that's what some officials in some parties also do, but it hasn't responded. But everyone saw and knew that he lived in Zagreb, and they didn't know who would normally believe that someone from Bizovac traveled to Zagreb for years daily to work in Zagreb. Due to the illegal benefit of the fictitious residence, the indictment against Vesna Željnik, the mayor of Koprivnica, was filed. The same thing brought charges against Zrinka Perica, head of the Zadar Crime Police. For the same things he was convicted not long ago by Mr Dragicevic of the INA administration still not to list similar examples. Interior control from the cabinets of Minister Ostojic has informed USKOK, a mediocre prosecutor can process the case in two days, but to date it is unknown what is waiting for it, or the case may have been archived in the belief that it is not interesting to the Croatian public. I'm sure you'd be wrong about that. The first inspector who had the courage to show internal control of Filipic's hoax is Perica Biocic, whom the same internal control began to investigate and question where he came from, and time will show what he was doing and on what basis and with what real purpose. Meanwhile, the head of PNUSKOK Filipovic moved faster and better to Zagreb to continue coordinating with you probably Mr. Cvitan coordinated the work on sensitive objects. What you do not coordinate with Filipovic must be with the head of state PNUSKOK, Mario Bertin, who another citizen complained that he had recently been physically attacked and threatened. It was 15.5. when he shot down a citizen who reported both to the police and to all the authorities. Not until today. Mr. Bertina said: "You don't know who I am and what I can do to you, the dark will swallow you." If you report me, I'll report it anyway.' The report seems to have been stopped. We don't know if because of the disturbance of public order and peace, they're going to launch misdemeanor proceedings against the Commissioner Bertin who's threatening, and I'll probably get some kind of threat from the middleman I'm getting, or they'll get stuck in a drawer under Stojić's discretionary assessment, and best man's ties between Ostojic and Bertin shouldn't be denied. However, as Ostojic likes to say does not interfere with police work, these two PNUSKOK chiefs should probably be prosecuted by chief police director Vlado Dominic whose list of affairs begins with conflict of interest because of receiving generous charges to the AKD, then leads through a ski trip to an official vehicle accompanied by family, police bodyguards. Where it ends, it'll probably show time. If you have to rely on these police leaders to prosecute crime, Mr. State's Attorney, then it's not easy for you and it's going to be a lot harder for you as long as you agree to the different criteria for accusing the appearances attached to them. Part of the public and a good part of us here in the Parliament with a deep reserve have received an explanation of the replacement and resolution of the prosecutor and her boss for the case of Mladneo and Sacic. Few will agree that direct and objective responsibility for failures in such exposed objects has stopped on them. Isn't 400 million kunas of state money and several unsolved war murders not important enough topics you should know in all the relevant details. If you don't think you need to know, why do you think the chief of a single prosecution should know, especially when it comes to the deadlines for bringing charges? What would calm us a little bit when it comes to the DORH's problems would be your statement from this pay phone to name people who are reasonable and good choices, to respect the prosecutor's personal integrity and independence, to do whatever you can to keep as many good prosecutors in the DORH and to receive as many perspectives as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112719	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112720	Here's just a sentence. To respect the principle of equal distribution of work tasks, to encourage the professional work of the prosecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112721	You, too. We have a replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112722	I agree with you when you say about the processing and punishment of the crime and the conversion and privatisation that has traumatised Croatia almost as much as the aggression against Croatia. However, when you say that the state's attorney is choosing his own associates about unfortunately, unfortunately I will say, perhaps fortunately, but the good part and unfortunately not true. It's done by the State's Attorney's Council and all the sanctions it's taking against certain state attorneys. That also makes the State's Attorney's Council. But when you talk about statutes, that's what the attorney general said, and we need to take it seriously about the very short deadlines of antiquity that really need to be extended, not because the state's attorney would be able to work for a long time because we knew when we had an investigative judge that almost every investigation would go awry, but precisely because the state's attorney was saying it openly. We have bodies or state attorneys, law enforcement authorities, other bodies, and in particular foreign authorities do not provide data. You can imagine that Germany is asking for something from Croatia, everyone here would stand up against it, especially protection would come from the other side, what kind of state we are, for example, that we don't give to one Germany, and when the chief state attorney, when the police, when the state's attorney has been looking for information for years, and in familiar cases, there's no answer. It's a political issue now, it's not just a secret judicial issue, it's a political issue, and it's a matter of public speaking to include political structures, to call all non-cooperation countries in the European Union with Croatia. And how we're going to process economic crime when most of the time that money's out there, and those countries don't give us the data. Apparently, some of them are involved in this, so they have an interest and there is no need to stutter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112723	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112724	Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinović, we are in fact in agreement. This isn't literally what I said about the state's attorney choosing his associates when I was talking about whether he could make a mistake about the appointment or the resolution of a certain prosecutor. First of all, I will point out once again, the future of this country depends on how the Croatian judiciary works. The Croatian judiciary is the weakest link, in the Croatian judiciary, the weakest link is courts, not the State's Attorney's office. All that the State's Attorney's Office is doing today, what I failed to do because of the weather, it's great that cases started to process in the city of Zagreb because who's going to stop what's happening today, what happened these days is that the secretary is appointed head of the company that operates with 6 billion and which is, on whose establishment, the future of Zagreb depends. The state's attorney's office has a huge responsibility. Finally, the HAC we talked about finally began to unwrap the ball. I hope it doesn't end up at 600,000 kunas a movie that Mr. Calmett says he knows that's how much those movies cost. For 600,000 kuna, a feature feature film can be made, etc. So all that was said, what I was saying about the report, I was saying in good faith, in good faith, because I think that if we put our doubts under the rug here, then we'd be as dishonest as we've been for the last two decades being dishonest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112725	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112726	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic and again, in your speech, you started with what we are not all happy about, we are not happy that this swastika has appeared in the stadium of Hajduk, Po man in Split. But there was talk here today about it and it was said and I don't know why I keep saying it. In fact, it's about writing such species, graphite, etc. and in many cities, and in many places public, visible, invisible, as someone said at trafostations, etc. You see when there was a meeting of the G7 Group in Nuremberg then two police officers played a speakers speech by the Gables in '43. A year. One day it was that witch. Did the German Parliament argue afterwards? I don't know either. So we here already, instead of saying that institutions are doing their job, to see it. But one day the Germans reported the news, and then there's nothing more about it. Next, tell me when the state's attorney is here. Has anyone ever processed that case in Milan at the match Italy – Croatia? And you know who's behind it and why there's no name for those people who started that avalanche, torch, etc. in Milan? Well, because they were provokers who were against Croatia and the Croatian national team, and for them someone was organised to stand and finance them, such people. Unfortunately, we can't find out, we don't have a record of any prosecution or any other persecution of these people. So who's organizing them? And you'll see that we won't even get an answer from Split who did it in Split? Then what does that tell you? What does that tell you? Is there really someone standing to say here behind that? ... Croatian team... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112727	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112728	Dear colleague Grubisic, I was just saying that the human being is just a consequence. Therefore, the consequences of inconclusive in 20 years and 25 years. And now to correct it in a year is impossible. It's not DORH's responsibility, it's the police's responsibility, but society's first and then they're as the state's institution. We've become immune, I've been talking about the "U" in Zagreb and the "W" crosses all you want, and nobody takes it off, everywhere. First of all, you're chasing a star and a cowardly cross. Many countries that are not communist have a star in their flag. Therefore, the star will never be banned. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, So don't chase the star and the cowardly cross. That's what you from your ideological blindness do. Well, don't, 'cause they never will. America will remove the star from the flag. So give me a nice one, please. Yeah, well, it doesn't matter what's still white, black or whatever, she's a star. You're talking about the star. They also have some red stars. You said we'd never get reports. I'm talking about it. Institutions don't do their jobs. That's what I was saying, institutions don't do their jobs. 20 years won't. Who's behind the torch? You say provocatives. Well, that's what Mr. Karamarko said. A special war against Croatia is being waged. All these cowardly crosses, every letter, and they came out, from the outside to make mistakes for Croatia, to write, to draw hooks. I believe it must be a special piece of work, that it must be some unit of Captain Dragan made. Here's what we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112729	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112730	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Vuksic, I wouldn't be joining you in these really infertile ideological, almost pampering, but there's something else interesting about this part of which you were talking about. Those are the wounds you were talking about. It's a privatization, a transition robbery and a robbery of public companies we've witnessed. And I would agree with you that there is, in fact, one big lager of social problems that burden Croatia and which would be good actually for the Croatian judiciary to continue to solve in all its segments or to solve them through much more seriously. After all, and with this circumstance that converted crime no longer goes out of date. So the space is open. And further to being prosecuted, I would say as well as a war crime as long as it lasts and as long as its perpetrators live in the Republic of Croatia. What's the fact that the State's Attorney's office is not and cannot be the only leverage of that effort to actually continue. Also, I think that we are all aware that Croatia is different today and that there are different public perceptions and corruption and crime, and even those phenomena that you spoke of today than it was 10 years ago or 20 years ago in the Republic of Croatia when it was massively done, but nobody paid any attention to it. Therefore, however, Croatian society is changing and in five years, it will further significantly, significantly tighten the criteria of relations with corruption and what is corrupt than it was in Croatia 10 or 15 years ago. And I don't think those individual cases should be what we're actually going to be painting. The State's Attorney's Office has done a lot in this term, but what you are, I think, is crucial that the Croatian judiciary has not actually been reformed and that only the Croatian judiciary should be seriously reformed in order to make it as effective and as effective as the State's Attorney's Office today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112731	Thank you, dear colleague. Time's up. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112732	Dear fellow, what you've said to my ideological hints I'll read to you No, no, everything's fine. [[Intruder Đurović: Excuse me.]] All kinds of stuff we're doing here, so here's how your boss used to say, "That wasn't a swastika on the human lawn last night, it was a trail of lawn mowers on a freshly cleaned lawn. To ensure the accuracy of this claim look at this carefully selected color harmony on the real Nazi swastika and compare it with the trail etc." Unfortunately, this quality design solution of the above symbol is written by one of the HDSSB leaders or which is on your badges. I agree, at first I didn't speak at all, one joke I told a colleague who didn't understand, but that's his problem. As for this, I was talking about individual cases if it were a police officer in a village then I wouldn't talk about it. They're the police chiefs. When one of the police chiefs beats the citizens, not the first time, and he doesn't react, he should be suspended for the same second until it's proved true or not. I'm talking about it. And where am I gonna say that? At the bar, at the bar? This is where I speak. Look, when the boss works, I believe that if we keep going like we do now, we'll be different in five years, with more swastikas on the walls if we don't react. If this is what my colleague Grubisic said, we'll never know anything about it. So if we're not going to find out then let's give a boost to those who do. But then it means the government doesn't want it, so it wants to keep the conflict in Croatia between the lefts, let's say lefts and rights. What do we get? Then we get a sick society that deals with irrelevant issues but what questions we're talking about right now are inadmissible in normal society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112733	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Vuksic, spoke about investigations and concluded among other things that investigations should not be secret, if I understood correctly. If they're secrets, if they're public, and how many secrets are the ratio, by the time, etc., I think it's always the law that should be released. We're legislators, so of course we can discuss it. But I think you've well touched something else that seems important to me, which is to demystify in public, and also in the policy of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, or USKOK. Demystification especially for every citizen because the State Attorney's Office of course protects and should protect every citizen and state and represent the state and protect the interests of the state above all, and in all investigations, for example, against corruption and organised crime, then USKOK, of course, protects the state and constitutional law in all cases. So I think it would be good for the attorney general to, perhaps more often than the opinion of some other more frequent public appearances and more often speaks in the context of very widespread qualifications that come most often of course from political circles related to the opening of investigations, raising charges where this is very often qualified by political persecution. Qualification of investigations and indictments exclusively by almost political persecution, especially during the election years, and all the years before that are preparations for the election years, of course reducing the importance of the State's Attorney's Office in public. And if the State's Attorney's Office doesn't have enough public reputation, so perception of the importance of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, then its opportunities and mechanisms will weaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112735	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112736	Dear colleagues Kosor, yes, anyone who drags either the state or the individuals' hands into his pocket and gets caught with his hand in his pocket says that he is politically persecuted and that the DORH is the instrument in the hands of the government. Which is not true. Because they've shown, the verdicts have shown, if so, if they're right, then we're not a sick society, then we should be disbanded if nothing is true or what the courts judge or what the DORH prove, etc. So I believe in a legal state that doesn't do business the way we would like to, but that's all we have, the rule of law, the DORH, the police, the courts, that's all we have. And we need to fix and point to the problems that are and help, we as a legislative body help those who are fighting crime. And if we're not gonna do it then we don't want to do it well to the state. You said it was the DORH's job to protect the state. Yeah, it's true. And the state is a citizen. You know when Madeleine Albright came to the airport first what she said to President Tudjman tells you the state exists because of your citizens, remember that sentence, because many politicians forget that they are not the state and that the state is not an imaginary anthem, flag and coat of arms, but that the state only exists because of its citizens because then it makes sense. If it's not because of its citizens, if it's only because of the elite, then there's no point in that country. Demystification needs DORH, now there were words that, I also think it's commendable that the state's attorney doesn't suffer on the light stage. But from time to time, I should send a message to the citizens of Croatia for what is done. Mr. Cvitan himself said that many investigations shouldn't be secret or results shouldn't be secret, so let's change those laws. We're the ones who need to change the laws so everything doesn't get mystified. And I think it'll be a lot easier for the State's Attorney's office to do what may not be a secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112737	Thank you very much. We continue the debate by representatives' clubs, the club of representatives of the Independent List and the esteemed representative Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin, the sharing of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112738	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I was happy and very careful to hear your presentation about your work in the previous year. You should certainly hear the appeal and open your ears to what you are, what you have warned about and where you are asking for some help and also from this tall home, which is so-called. legal tools to help you perform your heavy and responsible service. It is certain that with the tools this Parliament brings and accepts your cross will not be smaller but will grow with responsibility and with the disintegration of Croatian society unfortunately. You stressed the need for technical equipment, that's important. I think in some ministries and some institutions there are too many and standing on the lagers, and you are debilitating. That's where they should be resolved at the state level. I think the state's attorney's office should also influence electoral proceedings, it's not foreseen in the law, but there's a reason that the other echelon or third political parties are doing some affairs, I've convinced myself that by law they have no foothold or justification. There you should see who is doing all this and to those persons take certain solutions and shifts. Unfortunately for us to have more problems, your work will be more difficult and responsible. In Croatia, some say I agree with a better organised mafia than a state institution, and that is not good. Families, various and different systems are falling apart, and this creates new problems. Some say there are a lot of police officers in Croatia, I think there are few of them, given the problems we have. It seems to me that every man in Croatia should have three officers in three shifts of eight hours and not achieve any results. When something is falling apart and is inside itself, when it is not resting on strong legal procedures and each one is doing his own according to the law, it is easy to act in that country any public service, and when society falls apart, it seems to me that it is very difficult to stand at the end of the evils that fall apart from it and the various scents that come out of it. I want you to personally endure and carry on this difficult cross that you have accepted, and that society and this tall home as much as possible in that regard and help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112739	Thank you, too. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Cain to end the time set for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112740	Dear President, Mr. State Attorney, the Croatian judiciary, my God, will work on what the DORH delivers to them. If the DORH doesn't work, it's clear there won't be a court. And as the court and the DORH work sometimes, the best testimony lies to the Zagreb case, the Bandic case. Well, gentlemen, whatever someone thought was simply a scandal, and that's how the people of the Republic of Croatia experience it. The state's attorney has rightly complained that he lacks space, that he lacks people, that he lacks trainees, that he lacks cars, that he lacks money, but sometimes when I look from my perspective, it seems to me that the state's attorney's office or the county's state's attorneys still lacks the will, the desire, the feelings, the feeling of dealing with the problems that makes these attorneys compatible with the social reality. We have state lawyers in this country who are in charge, I call them, for old age. The damage of 20 million kunas will be transferred to the state, the state will or won't pay for it, and nothing at all, but what bothers me most in the work of the state's attorney's office is selective justice. What is true of God sometimes does not apply to the ox in this country, and now who is God, the will is simply to discuss it. I agree with everyone who said that this is a report, a report of all reports. Why? Because DORH, among other things, is responsible for the Croatian reality. Croatia has been stolen, Croatia is or has no perspective, our citizens are without a future, in three, four years 100 thousand people have left this country, I say, and because of the failure of the DORH. If we want Croatia to be better, then we should talk about the DORH. While Sanader was in power we see and stand alone calmly, when the Americans said you were cleaning, then the cleaning was normally gone from Sanader, but many worse or equal are at large. I'm reading this report to SOA a few days ago, which is a play. SOA walks even in some land-booking departments in Istria, e.g. In Buski ok, they deliver reports to the top of the government, and they calculate with the elections, and people in the DORH are normally silent. And what the DORH in Istria at least was to correct myself immediately, an extended hand of politics. Yesterday I read one text in the Morning List, about saying revealing corruption is the first national interest. Everyone, almost all the media is under the wing of politics and capital. Why politics? Because money is in politics, whether it's financed by local media, whether it's financed by national knowledge is where money is drawn from. How do the PR agencies work, especially in Istria, where they operate 15-ac headed by Manjgur? What's Macan, Genero doing there, who are they representing? It's being drawn to millions of kunas, but since the position of the attorney general depends on the top of the state, what we can't do is Fimi Media can definitely do it down there. And what and how it ends and what it results from, Istria, which is 2002, e.g. had 18% higher GDP than the Primorje-Gorski County in 2014 has 3% less or more precisely 333 euros and normally no one else. For example, 50 thousand euros was raised by a local official, not from IDS, via Liechtenstein, DORH knows everything, shut up. It's even supposed to be someone asking themselves where Cain came from, but it doesn't matter. What I said about this state's attorney in charge of obsolescence, so it's 20 million kuna and no one. Your men, Mr. Cvitan, confirm after the entry into force of the Law on the ban on selling real estate or agricultural land that leading people can buy thousands, thousands, hundreds of thousands of squares for the equivalent of one or two kunas and no one at all. SOA also when I mention it all knows, the State's Attorney's Office knows everything, but the public just can't hear anything, and that's why it puts the pasture and control on individual media. The former county attorney in Istria, I will literally say under the quotes "exercised" because he wanted to bring Kulterer, director of HYPO Bank to the defendant's bench, who simply stole these Istrian spaces and normally to keep DORH quiet. Now some secret accounts are coming out of Liechtenstein, and I guess this is gonna be nothing to anyone, too. He calls me, I said it once here in the Parliament, so I'll repeat, 9.6.14.45 minutes I'm sitting on the British with Mrs. Zeljko Ogreste, he calls me Željko Sabo, and this is exactly what you're talking about when you're talking about tickets, I was there, or when that Hungarian was talking about getting into the Navy, it's one plot right next to the sea, and when he paid 350 thousand euros. And the other one, the other one, I named him, and he said he took more. I know that in this case the DORH can't do anything because it started talking about it 30 days ago, but as it is possible that the IRS has estimated one square of the most attractive land in Poreč, imagine 10 kuna, somewhere in 2007, eight, nine or ten years. There are five reasons why Istria, Croatia is stagnating, why, among other things, tens of thousands of people have left this country for the past few years and why our future is what our future is. In the first place corruption, in the second place nepotism, third place media control by local self-government or government, it is a normal bargaining and it is a policy of non-refoulement. I said before how it's only in Istria, 2002. 18% higher gross output than the Primorje-Gorski County, today 3%. We've been given to God, everything's going down, except for those who are mixed up with power, so whatever we're talking about, or do, normally big monopoly companies. All testified friends of Istria are in prison today, whether in Croatian, Austrian or Italian. I'm taking some with those Italians and the litigation. What's the DORH doing in the List case? They're falsifying the police and nothing to anyone. Now he's being sued for trespassing. Okay. I'm not going to flood it, but does anyone think in this assembly that someone would come from Austria based on trust in the land book buy land and then to enter and disturb the property..., the county company or do you think someone from Istria would go to Austria to disturb the property, I don't know any Austrian state or worse land company. They're setting him up as a drug dealer, and the police are denying everything. What does the government do after that? Nothing. He's looking for a coalition. Who has Mr. State's Attorney's accounts in Liechtenstein? You're chasing some about the Zagreb cases of urbanization. I say that Zagreb urbanization is Mickey Mouse maus, it's Paja Duck according to what was going on down at my place, but the DORH in Brtonigli I'll say openly in doing so participates. They're accomplices to all that. I buy for 1 to 2 kunas urbanizing all that and then on that land later I sell it nicely, parceling 50 and some bungalows, 26 pitchforks and nothing. Due to this practice, half of Croatia will move to Austria, Germany, Canada simply Iceland or I don't know where Ireland is because people here see that they have no one or what to rely on. So the DORH's commitment is somehow to protect this nation. I'm not going to say that the DORH people don't do much, but I have the impression that in some environments they're simply doing selective and selective justice is ultimately an injustice. I'll bring up a case of the Captain. I spoke several times here in the Parliament, and Istrian heroin during Romulo's offensive killed her father, mother, three sisters, two brothers. She's been hurt twice. She ran into Simon Perez, thank God and someone sent a courier and racketed a woman for 600,000 euros. The Israelis normally left. Will someone help this woman? And then we're talking about football anyway, but the question is, what in some cases is DORH doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112741	Thank you very much. Time's up, let's go to the replicas. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112742	I agree with Don Grubisic, who said that new tools should be given to the state's attorney. First of all, I believe in the context of these and the events that every few appear in Croatia that we need a criminal act that we were instituting in 2003, so this side abolished it with the help of the Constitutional Court to glorify fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian systems. So we need this crime, and some of today's debates would look different. And I think it's a shameful insinuation that the right-wings and what happened defends themselves to God, so maybe the left-wings planted it so they could charge them. I think it's embarrassing that kind of behavior because then the question is whether or not the SDPs and Karamarks whispered what they were going to say in Canada and what they're going to say at party meetings when Kevin's caves were called. So I wonder why and for what it is, what wonders about Kevin's pits or swastikas when they called Kevin's pits. And one more thing. It was said here today, so as soon as a cowardly cross is mentioned, the more shy they appear, the less when they speak in a group of oxen, how they should be equalized, or banned, by a five-point star. So I call for a provision, and I quote the court's decision in Strasbourg brought by the European Court of Human Rights on the appeal, by the Hungarian activist who was convicted of it. The court said that wearing and pointing out the star is a five-point thing of human rights and a symbol of freedom. The truth is, unfortunately, crime has been committed under many symbols, and there is no symbol under which crimes have not been committed. From the cross, from the star, but the cowardly cross is a symbol of evil in itself, that we won't understand it once for the occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112743	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112744	I thank you for the contribution of Ms. Anticevic to the debate. I wouldn't have had anything to add to this. And clearly, the war of symbols is a prelude to physical war among humans, so there is no need to justify any symbols, especially those in the name of which war was waged, and many victims are burned. But when it comes to a cowardly cross at the Human Stadium, it is necessary to distinguish what are the causes and what are the consequences. And we'll see if the rule of law can get to the one who came up with it and did it. I wrote on my facebook yesterday that to that man who designed it and put it on the ground should give a monument more permanent than honey. It's my view of a man with an idea and I condemn a clearly cowardly cross as a symbol of evil in the name of which evil seemed to be evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112745	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica of Damir Kajin's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112746	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you have quite directly accused a representative of the State's Attorney's Office who is working on your... as you said about cooperating obviously with some who were doing illegal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That really requires attention or verification of the state's attorney's office or your apology if it's not true. So there's a lot of heavy charges, and it needs to be made clear to the state's attorney's office, and we need to see what it's all about. But you were talking about the conduct of various state institutions. So now I'm just going to name two questions. It's anti-corruption. Yesterday we had a National Council monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy where we publicly announced that the State Office for State Property Management after 3 attempts to obtain data on the anti-corruption measures implemented is not responding at all to the request of the Assembly Committee. I'm not the only one looking for it as the new president of the National Council, but my predecessor, Shakespeare, on two occasions, and no use at all. Therefore, the state authorities do not respond at all to the request of the parliamentary body to monitor the implementation of the fight against corruption and do not respond at all to what they have done according to the duties they have received from the Government, from the Parliament, etc. Is this not a sufficient example of action and how anti-corruption measures are being implemented? And secondly, here's our chance today, the state's attorney said what I'm saying is that he can't talk about whether it's Atlantic sailing or some other company. However, the economy minister obviously knows what it is and says that he, as allegedly, does not know but knows that it did not happen in the SDP's mandate, although the SOA report refers to 2014. How can the Minister know that? Or has he suddenly become the psychic Maras or what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112747	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112748	Dear Mr. Matusic, first of all, we know each other very well in Istria, we all know each other as almost everyone knows each other in your county. There's 208,000 of us. So let's not just paint. Well, everyone knows in Brtoniglia what someone was in the '90s and how something came up after 1990. It's true what he's listed who, what real estate he owns, what money he has and what capital he owns. It is known all in one relative to our great Pula opportunities, which is 60,000 inhabitants, and that they will not be known in my Buzet or in another five times smaller Grožnjan. I didn't accuse anyone, but I'm calling for the selective justice that's at work, mostly down in my county. I'll say one more time if I wasn't clear enough, that the DORH in the county DORH has people in charge of obsolescence. It's a shame 20 million kunas, nothing to anyone. They're going to move to the state. Where is possible except in Istria when someone in public is called that someone goes with a candy and 10 Doug coffees like a doctor, to the head or former head of state's attorney, they talk a little bit, they normally break up like they're just trying to figure out how the case is going to be handled. There's no such thing in Croatia down at my place. I'm not going to talk about former DORH bosses representing almost all local self-government units and making as much money with their attorneys as he and three generations behind him could possibly make in a year. So let's not just paint. And about selling the country, about urbanisation, how to acquire, control the media, raising money for the PR agencies and so on, that's only possible in Istria. Don't let God...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112749	Thank you very much. Long live Istria. New replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112750	Dear colleague Cain, listening not only to you today but generally in your discussions when you mention Istria, the impression is that the State's Attorney's Office doesn't need to be at all. You also report, you investigate, you here and charge and practically turns out that Istria is a criminal area in the Republic of Croatia. You've been part of this policy for decades. This is where you came to the Assembly to these benches on your wings and such policies, and I think we should all watch what we're saying and how we talk and who we're accusing. And the propos and today's entire debate over that unfortunate cowardly cross. As far as we're concerned with this discussion, as much as these media outlets are going to say Ben, we're going to point out that's exactly what they're doing. We've been discussing today all morning, accusing ourselves, the whole state of something... which is definitely not, and you're literally on the wings of those policies in Istria, you came here to Parliament for the first time and twice and for the third time, and now you're here. After all, you were a guarantee to Jakovčić for that village when he took the loan. I mean, be careful who you accuse because you accuse an entire region, people who do their job fairly and responsibly. That there's a crime, there is, but that's why we have the State's Attorney's office doing it, not that we're calling for this pay phone, pointing out and saying something we heard, that we read somewhere in some media. It's not fair and it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112751	Dear colleague Cain, listening not only to you today but generally in your discussions when you mention Istria, the impression is that the State's Attorney's Office doesn't need to be at all. You also report, you investigate, you here and charge and practically turns out that Istria is a criminal area in the Republic of Croatia. You've been part of this policy for decades. This is where you came to the Assembly to these benches on your wings and such policies, and I think we should all watch what we're saying and how we talk and who we're accusing. And the propos and today's entire debate over that unfortunate cowardly cross. As far as we're concerned with this discussion, as much as these media outlets are going to say Ben, we're going to point out that's exactly what they're doing. We've been discussing today all morning, accusing ourselves, the whole state of something... which is definitely not, and you're literally on the wings of those policies in Istria, you came here to Parliament for the first time and twice and for the third time, and now you're here. After all, you were a guarantee to Jakovčić for that village when he took the loan. I mean, be careful who you accuse because you accuse an entire region, people who do their job fairly and responsibly. That there's a crime, there is, but that's why we have the State's Attorney's office doing it, not that we're calling for this pay phone, pointing out and saying something we heard, that we read somewhere in some media. It's not fair and it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112752	I'd use one term, but I won't, because it's a warning or something. Yes, I have come to this Parliament on a wave of one policy not once, twice, but three, four, five times, but I also think that I have neither received for myself nor earned by not counting on the salary that is privileged for Croatian opportunities, nor on any kuna on the side. What gives you the right to simply tell me that I have called the citizens of Istria, those people who have to get up every day at 5 or 6 o'clock to feed their treasures or to go to Trieste by working and earning something to raise their own families. How can you accuse me of calling those of my Bosnians working in three or four shifts in one Cimos? How can you call me calling people like my mother by '74? years working in Trieste? Don't just do this to me. But if I say that 50 people thanks to exactly the local position today weighs 2 million euros, I'm probably wrong in the figure, and that's what hurts me and what I'm talking about. At the moment that I couldn't change things through the structure of the policy I belonged to, which I was creating, then I decided to go outside that policy the way I'm doing it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112753	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're gonna take a break for lunch. We will continue at 3pm with the start of the presentation of the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Good for everyone and rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112754	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. It is the SDP club and the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. .../Conversation disabled./... My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the report by the state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. We find that this report is very objective, very constructive we should also say very very much, I would say even bravely that one state body does not need to submit to other bodies, but rather requires from them what they are required by law, by the Constitution and by law, to be able to do the same task that is given to them by the Constitution and by the law, by many laws. However, by adopting or amending both the CAP and other laws, more and more and more and more and more important and greater responsibilities of the State's Attorney's office as a whole are being imposed. When we receive such a report, first of all the appeal which is a particular body which is the main state attorney who speaks on behalf of all state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, and this is a lack of material conditions and even these spatial conditions. Of course it's hard for the last 2-3 years to do anything, but you can and must because eight years ago there was absolutely nothing in the spatial order. I'll just remind you, 2004 or 2005. The Ministry of Justice has spread or left free rooms and moved to Djezmanov, and that money was given only in a year to the State's Attorney's Office specifically this, any objections of this nature that you, Mr. Chief Attorney, would not have brought out today. But we can't even justify what it was, we need to solve it because this problem is right for us and needs to be solved. We're here today, as we've been introduced by the state's chief attorney at 15 county attorney's offices for 604 officials, mostly women, at all levels. What's he saying? How is it that apart from traditional health, schooling, one of the most important and important functions in the country, one of the duties in which any injustice and the smallest occur, that I do not speak of those who have been screaming for decades and who have not yet been satisfied with the victims in any way, in any material, nor in the moral, nor in the Croatian people and citizens as a whole for the crime of conversion and privatisation, which is what it says when there are more women and men find jobs elsewhere. First of all, it should be noted that the salaries of the state's attorney and the salaries of the judge of the same level were evened precisely during that period of our coalition government in 2002 and 2003. This has significantly improved the personnel structure, but it is no longer any motivation. What does that mean? The weight of the task that the attorney general and his deputies face at all levels. Now, as far as we're concerned with our law, I'm going to talk about us and other branches of government so that the State's Attorney's Office as an independent body can get its job done because no matter how hard it's worked, the general statesman and his deputies and work deep into the night, so... and often after midnight, people are still not satisfied. One minor thing from the level of the state attorney general, but not from the level of the victim in one municipality, in one city, they have so little trust in municipal and county state attorneys or their deputies, perhaps often and unwarranted but already that impression of the alarm is that we do something in that direction. All your letters, every application comes to you. So in which country is the State Attorney's Office of a State, but our main state attorney's office, our State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, by force of opportunity or trouble not only by the basis of the law, has found it objectively in such a situation that it must practically fail to resolve but at least be warned or lower then at lower levels and follow what is happening because citizens have lost their trust. That's why I think the greatest burden lies right on the Croatian State Attorney's Office, especially on the chief state attorney who said he would pay particular attention just to revitalising the municipal and county state's attorneys in some way. It's very difficult, Mr. State's Attorney, we know that as agents. We don't know exactly what's going on, but we do know what's going on. We don't know how to find cause-related connections, but that's fortunate, or unfortunately, you and we, not us, but people don't, citizens don't trust each other. But I don't say to the state's attorney's office any state's attorney's office, so it solves specific cases. It is reserved only for the most difficult cases of national importance and to conduct criminal justice policies. I believe that, at a very reasonable time, you'll have the municipal and county state's attorneys' offices working for you by midnight or after midnight. But in winter you will see that in three, four hours down there is no one but if you pass through here with Gaius then you will see that the light shines deep into the night, deep into the winter night. But a job like that can't be done properly. Because then you shouldn't need 600 and 4 others, it would be enough of you as many of them as you have up there. What do you do systematically? I know that legal opportunities are also limited, but the law can also be changed to make it, to make the state's attorney's job more effective. And that's because people who have long been in the same small environment all know each other and it's more impossible for everyone, even if there's a will and desire to break some things. So, some special reward I know that state lawyers are reluctant to decide on, not cell phones, not go to other environments. But maybe with a younger team that's getting more and more ready, we can see that the younger people, no matter what profession they're in, are mobile, but with one adequate fee. This should ensure that great results can be achieved. It's obvious, I'm going to start something on concrete criminal acts, and it's evident that the decline in the crime of each type is especially the most serious crime against life and the body. In general, Croatia, according to these criminal acts, is the ratio of the number of applicants and what the State's Attorney's office is learning and the process begins to be said to satisfy. However, what does not satisfy citizens is sanctioning economic crime. People see in everything, they've been robbed, they've been cheated. I said something in the replica. I'll say it again here on behalf of the SDP club. So a man doesn't need to be Edison to know how to turn on the light. But if in front of you, I'm not going to say what city, but it happens almost every city in a failed factory and we have very few, so then we know what kind of workman doesn't get paid, the creditors don't get paid, there's no money company and the company owner builds a hotel. So who's crazy about it? That's obvious. Then the papers, that's where the special reverse logic should go. And then people see it in vain, so because we've been trying to figure out how to sanction simple people then they don't trust when they see something like that. So I also believe in this way that measures and organisational actions are taken only by the State's Attorney's office that such behaviours will end, that they too will come to an end. But here's as well as the trial, and in this case, if justice comes too late, then it's for the people of injustice. We at the SDP club believe that although we all like to say that we want zero tolerance on corruption, we still think that USKOK and then we are invited to make certain changes that USKOK is indeed reserved for the most difficult and dangerous forms of corruption and organised crime. And for all these easier things, let the regular state attorney's office, municipal, county jurisdiction do it. Or we have the confidence to give such authority to a top state attorney who then has a responsibility to the public, according to the citizens as to why he has left something to this or that authority because it depends on the qualification of the act, the jurisdiction itself depends on the severity of the penalty. I think that we are in general, first I will say as ruling, but as a whole mature, unique in that we are not afraid to give such power to an independent state body. I don't think there are any obstacles to that anymore or any fears. As for the crimes committed by hatred for the violation of gender equality and sexual harassment, we see that there are certain improvements that people respond more adequately, report, but also that the State's Attorney's Office itself, so regardless of how it learned most often through public texts or which only convinces itself to do so. I think, and we at the SDP club continue to hold that certain criminal acts that we once had as a special crime are the excelling of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian states today are ideology, today we can sum up a whole series of crimes but that here we also need to react quickly, because precisely the speed, that certainty of conduct, that is, the best way of prevention. When the perpetrator knows, when he does, there is no doubt or dilemma that he will not be prosecuted, brought before the court, then it is in the best sense and general prevention not only. When I first spoke of how authorized we were all, that is, to be the work of the State's Attorney's Office, because it is both our legal and our tasks, which is our fundamental and role to make such regulations and laws that will facilitate our work. But also to point out how we as a policy not only as a legislative body can help in these situations when the State's Attorney's Office, which was specifically referred to by the State's Attorney General, has been bound by deadlines because it was our urgency, we have been consciously doing this to amend the Criminal Procedure Act when we transferred the investigation to the State's Attorney's Office, abolished the investigative judge, and turned it into a judge of investigation that would only control the legality of the proceedings in the previous proceedings, and that procedure that the State's Attorney and the police carried out on the orders of the state's attorney. We have basically 6 months plus 6 more on justifiable occasions, or circumstances, or another 6 months for extremely complex situations that may arise. However, these are not only deadlines belonging to the State's Attorney's Office 6+6 twelve or a year and a half. These are the deadlines which, where the court takes action for a particular operation if it controls the legality of the Constitutional Court's conduct, are the same as the issue of legal aid. And here we are, deficient, here we are, the gentlemen of the deficit. I will repeat, and I will not be afraid of any shame, one Germany, imagine that Germany is looking for something I think would raise hands in the morning, so little we take care of our own self. We're small, but we'll be even smaller in other people's eyes if we're not principled and I think we can be principled, we have arguments for that. And if we talk about arguments, especially when we're on our way out, then we need something like that. How do you find tax returns, how do you find secret accounts? All that the State's Attorney's office needs. I would ask the state's attorney if it is possible not in specific cases and cases but simply how many policies, as far as we can at diplomatic level do and what would be normal for the judicial authorities because we have concluded a number of such contracts, after all, we are now a member of the EU and these are some things that are meant by the laws that we have adopted and specific framework rules, standards and directives. What I have already said about the crimes against life and the body themselves, that this number of crimes is falling, but crimes against the environment have not yet been seen in public as particularly dangerous acts. And the consequences that they can cause As far as the civil trial is concerned, we remain at the SDP club that it is necessary at this stage to remain an integral part of the State's Attorney's Office because the civil part of the State's Attorney's Office saved a lot of resources in the state budget and enabled and opened up criminal proceedings. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112756	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112757	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Anticevic, you say you will support this report, that you regret the poor material conditions of work, and I would say that it would be far more important to the State's Attorney's Office if the work and working conditions of the State's Attorney's Office were to be considered when the state budget is being passed, when the hand was raised for the draft state budget. Namely, you and almost everyone today who supports work and regret the working conditions are responsible for the fact that for the State's Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and the County and Municipal State Attorney's Office are provided with only 311 million kuna, and by making it even more important that this office is employed, sorry that 71 employees, 65 employees and 6 tenants should have been employed according to the system, and 41 employees are unfulfilled, 3 employees' jobs and, of course, very, very poor working conditions. It seems to me that he really wants to put an end to a number of criminal acts so that it's safe to take care of that and when it comes to budgeting. It can't be said that there's no funds because in 40 agencies, 16 institutions, 5 funds we have 14 500 employees, and around the State's Attorney's office we're missing more than 50%. Are these just statements for today that we want to prevent criminal acts, and tomorrow when we have to make a state budget, the budget rebalance will be forgotten again about the difficult working conditions and the lack of employees in these services?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112758	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112759	... You repeat what he's saying. I'm the attorney general and we don't run away from at all. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] But when you compare things to the authorities, then you see these other experienced ones who know the whole chronology silently. In 2000, we found 60% of the empty frame. We passed the USCOD Act, I gave up my own premises of the ministry and gave it up so that USCOD could work. What are you doing in 2004? From free space in the square of the Republic of Austria you move to well-paid, basnoslovno paid squares of HRT. And if that money was given to Hop, I wouldn't have these problems. For eight years, nothing is spent but spent. Our newspaper, the media published every little bit of that move and they called it crazy squared. So the courts, then they couldn't do regular work, pay even postal costs not to talk about other costs, and the monthly rent was paid to HRT next to their own space. I'm not saying it's even an excuse right now, I'm even in my debate and I said it. But it was necessary to say where we were headed. So, you in 2, 3 years because what was done and promoted in 2003 was under fire for 8 years. The judiciary was neglected, especially in a material sense. And in that other sense, the boot was placed on the judiciary. And I think that those times are behind us, and I'm glad you're discussing in this sense and supporting that we find ourselves at the Justice Department, with DUDI's bigger space, that's what we need. And if we're going to compare because you're worse at comparisons, let's not compare it's not the time for comparisons, but it's time to turn around... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112760	... On behalf of the HDSSB club will be spoke of by the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112761	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, Honorable MPs and MPs. In the discussions of the predecessors and predecessors, a lot of things have been said about the work of the State's Attorney's Office. I must say on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we express a positive attitude towards the work of the State Attorney's Office in time or during the period of Mr Cvitan's term, especially in the part where there was a certain deviation from practice at least visiblely, in the part which was visible, there was a shift of practice that adorned especially the second half of his predecessor's mandate. And we hope that this way of working, that practice will continue in your term of office. What state's attorney are we looking for or any state's attorney we're supporting? So we support that state attorney who works as a civil servant, i.e. a state official for his salary in his working time, tries to do this job fairly, better shape that service and in his work stick to Croatian laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We've never seen any distances from that model in your work before. We hope that these distances or such distances will not come in the time that is behind us, or that is before us. We are certainly looking for and supporting that state attorney who will not, who will not deal with politics to question certain subjects, their rise, their processing in any embassy operating in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the state's attorneys are no place to conduct any consultations at these embassies. Politicians may and may meet with ambassadors and officials of different embassies. We certainly think that the Croatian State Attorney should not be the one who consults in any of the official meetings that are defined, so this does not apply to you, you know that, should not be the one who consults these embassies and therefore define certain procedures. There's a whole series of expectations as high as I said before in a replica of large and very often completely unrealistic from the state's attorney's office. In some ways, some of the institutions that should actually be working and taking responsibility have in some way directed and said they have delegated some of their jobs to the state's attorney's office and looking for an excuse to act or to inact and not take action to determine their work that should actually be done and of course the state's attorney's office as I said cannot change Croatia, cannot change Croatian society and cannot change Croatian people, it cannot change the habits that have been established. So Croatian society, and Croatian state's attorneys share the fate of Croatian society. Therefore, let us not, in the Croatian Parliament, refer to the state attorney's office what we ourselves do not know, we cannot or are not ready to change and act in Croatian society as the most legislative body in the Republic, so we can delegate it to the state's attorney's office. So we're the ones who make the laws. If the laws are bad or if they need to be changed, there is no sure responsibility in the state's attorney's office. So in this case, I am not defending the state's attorney's office, but would indeed point to an excessive expectation of the atmosphere created in Croatian society that several hundred people working in the state's attorney's office will end corruption in the Republic of Croatia. I think that in the first place is actually a task that is equally directed towards the state's attorney's office and towards all of us who are on any kind of public duty or we act to do our own work, work, example, conduct and all the rest of what we do suppress corrupt practice. A few days ago, and in fact a few days ago, these days I was in Romania at some, one regional seminar and what is evident that there, that the problem of corruption is in fact the most present in Southeast Europe, the most pronounced and in EU countries of new arrival, and in countries with space so-called. Former Yugoslavia. When we came to Bucharest for some kind of demonstration, I asked the driver what these people were demonstrating, he said these are regular demonstrations in Bucharest against corruption held every week before the Romanian government. The main problem that all participants point out at the conference was corruption and just corruption related to politics and this unfortunate relationship that is being established between the business of state, private and politics. What is clear that Croatia is not in this sense the way it was 10 years ago, not 15 years ago, not 20 years ago, that Croatian society has made significant steps, changed the perception of corruption, significantly sensitized and raised the criteria compared to what we consider corrupt. And what we saw 10 or 20 years ago as completely common today is no longer considered but is today and reporting and processing. The predecessor mentioned before me the problem of municipal and county state attorneys, I'm not an actor and I don't work in that judiciary, but to the extent I can tell, I think she's actually well-absorbed certain problems. I don't know how they should be dealt with, whether they can be dealt with by some mandates or rotations or by something else, but I think there must be a part of it, not a problem, but an opportunity to improve that system. It won't solve anything, but it could improve. I also believe that these people who work in municipal and county state attorneys should be slightly and additionally sensitised for the phenomena that occur in their environments and they are people who read the newspaper and they are people who follow the events around them, so they are not people who are lurking in the space they live in. Therefore, they should not only wait for someone to write them an application I suppose because I think there is a space to be observed without someone writing a report that they happen or, for example, if someone who is in public space or in politics so publicly announces that there are certain indications that some public work has not been done for example or that it does not appear to be done in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or that a state budget is damaged, I suppose they should not write the application that they can also ask a little bit of themselves and see what is happening here and whether there are elements for the identification or existence of a criminal offence. Here I wanted to relate to a concrete example from Požega-Slavon County where Croatian roads performed very strangely strange jobs in setting up microasphalt in the region of the east, it was an otherwise strange tender strangely conducted, strangely executed, strangely assigned. But the strangest thing is that the works were carried out disastrously badly, which was responsible in the Croatian roads with which I contacted and held meetings are not interested, which is responsible in ŽUC which are not directly responsible because Croatian roads were a performer, they do not want to discuss anything at all. But what is personally incomprehensible to me is that if a public job was done badly so someone accepted it, someone in the Croatian roads said it was good and that there was no one's interest in seeing whether it was good or why it was done badly and who was the one who misrepresented it as a good job and paid it neatly. What was I gonna say? Finally, this sensitivity for public money and for public interest, which does not fall from the sky, but which Croatian taxpayers collect much more in the entire Croatian society must be built on and become part of us and part of what we do. So no one who does public work can care whether 100 or 500 thousand kunas of public money are spent in an adequate way or not spent in an adequate way. And finally, when it comes to staff shortages, lack of space and so forth, we proposed two years ago an amendment to the state budget for USKOK, I think that this budget of USKOK 50 million kuna, if I'm not mistaken, has a separate item for USKOK, that USKOK returns the annual budget to a minimum of that. And in previous reports there have already been a number of problems in operation, which is also too few employees, these are people who carry this job in the afternoon, evening and so on. Therefore, if we cannot solve the problem of 50 million kuna in the Croatian state, if it is very important for the Croatian state, I think it is. And when we raise a billion euros in credit, that's one agency news of three cartoons, here we went to raise a billion kunas of credit or euros or US dollars. As regards this report and the total of your city in this term, we expect you to continue to do so and to continue to build and improve, especially at the level of municipal and county attorneys, these technical problems are solved. Graduated lawyers, I think, with a passed judicial exam and years of work experience, have quite a lot on Croatian stock exchanges and quality and solids that can no work at all right now in the Republic of Croatia, so I think the frame will only be enough to solve material assumptions for increasing the number of people working in the system. And what remains of Croatian society cancer is not the State's Attorney's Office, it is exclusively the Croatian judiciary. It is certainly an open-ended painful wound of Croatian society which, in my opinion, has not been properly studied at all and everything that seemed and seemed in the judiciary has not at all yielded those results that are expected from the judiciary. And as someone once said that she is the justice that comes slow or that comes late is not at all justice, it is injustice. We also have a case for two people who reportedly traded exchanges between the public to tell the county and some private company, that from 2005, the Sekwell event was long known and a few days ago the first hearing was scheduled in the process. So 10 years later after that event. It's already a historic event for which the trial began a few days ago. It's over, however this trial ends, and how these people are convicted is not really justice anymore. It's kind of a mockery of justice, that's one bad message. And not to mention, however the State's Attorney's Office works, and it's not easy to work for several thousand kunas, especially when it comes to cases against organised crime, where 10 or 20 people who work for law enforcement teams meet against you and have big money at their disposal and big resources. and the opposite stands one civil servant or two with a limited budget and a problem that I can be paid by an expert. And then, of course, it happens to us and I'll dare say the sad judgments we have where we find that there is no organised crime, where there are almost and ridiculous judgments, actually regrettable judgments in the proceedings against some people who have alienated large amounts of public money. In any case, as regards this report, the support of the HDSSB club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112762	Thank you. The first replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112763	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, you have instructed several significant cases in this supporting the work of the state's attorney's office, of course, which the entire club has also made pleasure with this report. So you've instructed that case with the micro-asphalt known to Mr. Prime Minister and Minister Hajdash Doncic to present the results here, unfortunately, there's no such thing as that. The Croatian Road Authority has found nothing or received the road in use. And you have examples that 20 to 50 centimetres of roadblocks on the highways are therefore denied and that it is known how much savings, to whom it went, we don't know that this stop lane is narrower than what was agreed and what was by standard. This is what I have to say for Stone Ingrad, so it's quite clear that after 10 years we begin to even regret the participants of these affairs. So we say poor him, we've almost achieved some empathy for people who really let me say, and according to the DORH, we've entered into a huge crime that happened at the time. But what I was about to say and that is exactly what it is, and to point out, it is a trial within an unreasonable time limit. So it's not the DORH, it's the Croatian judiciary. And that is why the European Court of Human Rights lawsuits where the Croatian state has to pay for the trial within an unreasonable period without the DORH being able to do anything against those who are guilty of it. And that is ours to say ineffective Croatian justice and trial within an unreasonable period of time, it is known how many verdicts and how many millions of kunas, tens of millions of kunas lost in the European Court of Human Rights precisely because of the trial within an unreasonable time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112764	Thank you. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112765	Well, I've already told whoever doesn't know what the functioning of the judiciary should look like to follow the trial of Perkovic, Mustac. And it would be highly advisable for our judges to start following it more seriously, it is one of the bigger procedures that is very well followed in Croatian media. I don't know how, but at that trial, in one day, you do 3, 4 sometimes 5 procedurals. The same ones that take place in the Croatian judiciary would last six months or a year. How can the Germans handle it in a few hours on a work day I don't know but they do. So they can also report the documentation if they need to make a decision in one day and decide on the exemption and a few more, they solve everything all at once. So in the Croatian judiciary it doesn't happen, it just doesn't work. And how long would it be really good for today's Croatian judges and those who work Croatian laws in the area of the judiciary to see it happen there. So that's one known case, it's a lot of follow-up because I don't know how different we're gonna move. I mean, I've had people texting me now, saying I've got a litigation procedure, it's been 20 years, we've had 20 hearings so far. Every year, one hearing and a lawsuit lasts 20 years. Well, it's a disaster. It just won't work. This society is ready for change, this society has changed a lot at this age. This society will also change this system of justice and must make it much more qualitative and much more efficient and much faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112766	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djurovic, a colleague of Djurovic's, spoke of micro-asphalt several times already. And it's amazing how no one reacts. But make sure it's a micro-asphalt, macro-profit. Badly done, nobody cares, like it's bad, like we're swimming in money. So what are you even talking about? Well, it's a sin to mention because you're jeopardizing those profits so you wouldn't accidentally do as bad a second time and as soon as they get more money. Why doesn't anyone care? So because those in the Croatian roads know well who they gave the job to, they are not Croatian roads, but Croatian roads, the county roads, they are all connected, all performers are connected, they all have in their own, in the administrations or Croatian roads or the County roads, and no one will object. I know countless such examples which are also, I was saying when you... if you remember the roads on Cres, the same ones that were badly designed so it hasn't been fixed for long, etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The worst thing you've ever said is slow justice is injustice. And that's injustice. I've been talking about the case a few times, and now I'm going to report, now I'm going to say, I'm going to report it, I'm going to write a 21-year leaver debate. They stole the painting from a famous painter, took everything that could be taken away. I'm going to report to the judge, the Medvescak police, because the police officers were involved in this and part of the family, unknown in the family. Why? Because the judge has been held for 20 years by judges, two judges, in a drawer case, a leaven debate you say every year, every five years is a legacy, a debate, a pardon not a leaven debate. The thing is, the devil's iniquities, the thing is, we've Googled it. In 2010, a state lawyer named Mladen Bajic said that there are 200 accounts left to hunt,... In Hypo Bank, I'd like to know what's after six years with that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112768	Time. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112769	Well, public good, public interest, public money, I think that's what needs to be at the centre and the focus of those who do public work. So as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is our job to defend the public interest and protect the public interest and to watch if we notice that public money does not go non-transparently or according to our knowledge or knowledge spends irrationally, that in some way we talk about it. So I don't mean to write anyone any applications or write them down, but that's why I'm talking about it in public. But I can't believe it, so I was in a meeting with the authorities in the Croatian roads and that it was such an indeterminate thing, with no great desire to establish anything about it and to establish someone's responsibility for what and how it was done. I just don't understand that insolence some people allow themselves. This non-chalantness to the public interest and to the public money. Well, it's not that money, that money that someone got available through someone's budget. He is now at this very moment alone as a civil or public servant or a public firm employee, who is at his disposal to have the greatest public interest and to spend it, to do something for the public good. And that's why I just didn't understand these people's behavior. Of course we've moved so much since time, we're back 15 years ago when they did it, I said that for 15 years, whether it's '98 or not. Or '02. when it was done completely openly, without any supervision or any chance of anyone being responsible for corruption. That's the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112770	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Here's short on behalf of our club to support this report, short because it's really very comprehensively said. Relatively recently, we also discussed another previous report for the previous period. What is certainly the quality of these reports, that they are perfectly structured, that they provide plenty of data that we will probably read and study and listen to in the months ahead of us until the next report. However, what is important for the Croatian Parliament, I believe that we will be able to read or understand all the recommendations related to the work of the Croatian Parliament, the recommendations of the main state attorney, or recommendations that can be read from the report itself, related to difficulties and in the application of certain laws, but I think that the best life of every law, and so let's say the Law on criminal proceedings, can be read from its application, so also apply to the work of the State's Attorney's Office, in the work of USKOK, and then finally also courts. Because the beginning of the process of what is of particular importance to us and what we have additionally installed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, for example, related to war profit and war profit and non-depreciation, begins in this institution, and then ends in court or courts. And evenly distributed responsibility, but equally uniform law enforcement in all these important institutions then gives the guarantee that we are building a legal state in the full sense of that word, so the rule of law as we wish where laws are respected and that all those who commit such serious crimes must be sanctioned. Of course, politics has a great and inevitable responsibility in this process, primarily in ensuring understandable laws, applicable laws, laws that cannot be interpreted in different ways, and then we have two different state lawyers or state attorneys who interpret some laws in different ways. Here we have had this in the recent past regarding the application of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the countries of the European Union and then ultimately and in different interpretations of this law and in courts. So this is the task of politics, if necessary and we are not, at least I remember in this meeting reached in such drastic cases and for the right that we have, which is that we truly fully interpret certain laws, but our role is certainly, that is, the role not ours but the Croatian Parliament always and ultimately to read the difficulties facing the State's Attorney's Office and to ensure adequate conditions for its work, of course, in the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Because when you look at the funds that were planned and last year for the work of the State Attorney's Office then you can see, of course, that one large part goes to pay which is normal, one large part goes for both the material costs and the role of the Croatian Parliament is exactly in that, and also in the adoption of the 2016 budget, you will see how truly we support the work of this independent institution, which I remind you of and once again, we have strengthened during the negotiations to join the European Union by amending the Constitution 2010, so we have strengthened the additional independence of the State's attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Politics in this sense must indeed create an uninterrupted daily framework for the independent work of the institution, which means that politicians and policies must not ask the State's attorney to seek certain processing, the initiation of investigations, but equally important or possibly even more important, not to stop these processes, they must not and cannot stop and ask the state's attorney, or the state's attorney to stop the process by dividing ours and theirs. So, depending on who is, when and during which period is being processed. I already spoke of perception and the work of the State Attorney's Office recently in replications, but I still need to say once again that I believe that the State's Attorney's Office must not be and should not be uninterrupted under the lights of the reflector, the public but that the State's attorney has the task of interpreting to the public certain details and certain segments of perception, perceptions that are extremely important for credibility, for respect of this institution, and of course for the safety of citizens in processes that start in the DORH or USKOK and end up in courts. Therefore, political assessments very often about why a certain procedure was initiated in the DORH, i.e. USKOK, political assessment of the moment, etc. They must and whoever else, but in the State Attorney's Office itself, remove from the occasional public appearance and interpretation of the process because I think that incarceration sometimes and silence of the State's Attorney's office in frequent attacks on different sides leaves the impression of indeterminateness at the very least and needs to be spoken of in public, we have the right to speak about it too. But I think the attorney general has the right when a common process or some processes or different processes qualify the political parties that the State's Attorney General and the Attorney General with full authority have the right to talk about it in public. What is certainly good in this report is in many segments the recording of the fall in crime, i.e. the report also falls, so here I would single out corrupt crimes. So 48.42% less persons were reported for this criminal or for those crimes than in the previous period, in the previous year which is good data. And from that information, we can draw different conclusions now, but that's good information. He should look forward to you, because I suppose that doesn't mean that people are less registered, that is, less registered for this crime than I assume that everything that happened during the negotiation period and after the conclusion of the negotiations has also affected the decline in the number of occurrences of this crime. It's also a crime of taking bribes. It was interesting to report 40 people, and a year earlier 395 people were reported, so for the crime of taking bribes. Thus, 40 were reported, in the previous 395 period, and this is a drop of almost 90%. 89.87% and of those 40 reported 30 have been charged, and this is something that I personally find extremely important and extremely interesting and in the reporting period, the courts for the crime of taking bribes have reached 275 convictions of which 268 are convicted. So also almost 98%. Such data, i.e. they contribute to claims that the State's Attorney's Office is doing serious work and that it does indeed work in full terms of that word within the framework of the Constitution, the law and, in particular, the law relating to the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Because here's 96% of the charges as visible and as said at the outset has been confirmed. What is also interesting is that the percentage of the agreement, i.e. the agreement, is increasing. It is also something that is, a trend that started right at the time of the EU accession negotiations. Here's a colleague and a colleague, I've singled out only some of the crimes, or some areas affecting the work of the State's Attorney's office. Of course, however, there could be even further. I'll just mention here at the end organized crime and corruption. Decisions on rejection have been taken in relation to 436 persons and judgments have been reached in 2014 against 622 persons and 595 of the total number of convictions have been condemned. What is important in the end is to say once again that the State Attorney's Office is, of course, an institution representing the Republic of Croatia, which protects the Republic of Croatia and, as some colleagues have mentioned, what is the state, which is then at the end and at the beginning of the countries in this sense of protection. They're citizens, of course, and they're citizens. And just full confidence in the work of the State Attorney's Office in terms of an impartial institution that works exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and only within the framework of the law can then mean that every year when we study such reports, we can say that we have stepped forward. Because all the processes that we have been through in the reform of the judiciary in amending many laws, in amending the Constitution, all the processes that we have passed by really opening up some heavy chapters not in the negotiations but in the difficult chapters of life, we have not naturally done because of Brussels and we have not done it for the sake of EU membership, and we have not done it in order to become the 28th member of the EU, but for Croatia to be a legal state in which everyone feels security and in which everyone believes in that final justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112772	Thank you. Branko Vuksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112773	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with you that this report is complete. But there's one methodological error I've noticed several times, and it's easier to notice since the time we discussed it here too when one of the Ministers of Milenić's reports or the bill's proposals were compared with other courts, our courts compared to other courts. As a journalist, I never went to a country and wrote a report, for example in Turkey, and wrote that it costs 10 lire. When you write it, you wrote one piece of information that is completely abstract for readers. You have to write how many 10 liras is kuna, how many beers are in New York, say London and Zagreb. Then you get a picture of whether that beer is expensive or not. Here we would, so I totally agree with this systematicity, you all have checks, all the tables, charts you have, but it would be good for a second year if you were to report a country of this type with so many residents, a country of Western democracy, a country in transition, like the Czech Republic, Slovakia, there are so many people so many violations. Let's compare ourselves to others. It's going to be a lot easier for the State's Attorney's office, because we don't have this State's Attorney's Office right now, which is why we compare their efficiency or inefficiency. And it'll be a lot easier. Which doesn't mean again because again it's just statistics and you know that statistics is a goddamn lie, it can be. Because statistics don't essentially talk about who's being processed and don't say who's not being processed. Well, then let me just get ahead of myself, when you were the Prime Minister, Sanader's process was also a political process. We saw later on that it wasn't a political process. Well, then some of them resented law enforcement for doing the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112774	Time. Answer, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112775	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm going to comment on this last comment because of course I'm talking about any process, and then the case against politicians and putting it in the context of political processes would mean that this whole chain of judges and judges, all the judges who took part in the decision-making is politically instrumentalised. And that's really hard to do if someone wants to. And that's why qualified for continuously certain processes to be political I think it weakens that institution no matter who's in charge of it. And if we don't trust institutions like the Parliament that will pass and pass laws, the State Attorney's Office, the USKOK, of course courts including in the final and constitutional court which is not a classical court, then we won't have a state. But I agree with you that it would be important for us to compare a little bit because even this data when compared from this report to the data from some previous ones doesn't have to mean a drastic reduction, let's say, of those reported for bribery. Of course, this does not necessarily mean and probably does not mean that it is not a phenomenon that continues to pass in our lives. But that's less reported, that's a fact. And it is, though, when you strip it all away, it is still some indication that something is moving forward, so on that example. And the comparisons, of course, but we'd have to find them with equal population. And it's different, I believe, that you'll agree here, in the states of old democracy and those that have recently actually come out of transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112776	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. In the name of the SDSS club will speak for the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112777	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General. As far as the 2014 State Attorney's Office Reports are concerned, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will focus on three things. The first thing we talked about on several occasions about earlier reports is teamwork, technical and personnel when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office. And I will repeat what we have already said is inadmissible for us MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to receive these reports, we vote these reports, we support them, and year by year we realize that the Republic of Croatia has a State Attorney's Office that lacks the elemental technical means of working, such as computers, such as computer systems that would allow the efficiency of documentation, data processing efficiency and the efficiency of data update in data work. The state's attorney's office is not an NGO to receive grants from individual governments. It is good, and it is good that there is cooperation but it is neither the Croatian Helsinki Committee nor the Civil Committee on Human Rights, it is a state institution. And if the Republic of Croatia cannot provide several million kunas in its budgets to complete hundreds of computers that are necessary to the state's attorneyship and if it cannot provide the necessary means to buy, or install an adequate programming system in order to be able to operate, then it is actually an indicator of how much we have high expectations of the state's attorneyship and we treat it in a way that is completely inadequate. In long words, this shows a picture that I think is pretty clear. While lawyers get rich, I mean lawyers who represent citizens in litigation, criminal or criminal, or any other state's attorney's office is poor. And if in such a matter we have expectations that the state attorney's office will do things out of interest to the state and out of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia it is unrealistic because power is increasingly moving to the side of those who need to represent and defend, and it is becoming smaller on the side of those who should represent the state and those who should sue on behalf of the damaged and in the name of the law. And that's the problem. If it is for us as representatives and advocates in the Croatian Parliament anyway or if we are indifferent to this matter or if we overlook it then unfortunately we do not fulfill our basic function, which is that we actually take care of the implementation of the law and we make sure that institutions in the Republic of Croatia and those who are obliged to implement the law or those who are obliged to work on the preservation of legality have the necessary assumptions in this case technical and human resources. The fact that the state's attorney's office year after year records the outflow of personnel and records the reduction of candidates and candidates for trainees is alarmingly alarming. And if this is not an opportunity for us to discuss this then I would suggest that one special session be a thematic session of the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure be organised on this subject and that the conclusions that this Assembly will adopt in this regard be reached. As far as we're concerned, our representative club will go with a proposal to provide the necessary resources for the work of the state's attorney for his technical teaming and for his staff teaming in any of the following budget rebalancing. Another thing I would like to talk about and about which I am obliged to speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party is the issue of a war crimes trial. This is an issue that is of paramount importance for our internal relations, and it is of paramount importance for relations between other countries, especially countries in our immediate neighbourhood but also the issue of our international credibility because the issue of war crimes trials and the issue of this type of criminal offences is actually a matter that belongs to the international legal order and international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. State Attorney, we'd like to welcome you to add two more annexes to the regular report that you delivered to us. One showing the work of the State Attorney's Office on war crimes cases ended with the 31st December 2014 in which all those who are here and outside the Parliament said that the state's attorneys are doing nothing about the processing of those who committed war crimes can see what the state's attorney's office is doing in this regard and can also see the ratio of the dealings with war crimes trials. And these two tables inside this report clearly show. We also welcome your addition of reports on registered and led criminal proceedings for war crimes committed in the Vukovar area and its wider area, even more extensive and even more complete than this previous one. So all MPs and MPs who, when it comes to war crimes, rarely discuss at the level of campaign and propaganda rather than at the level of information and guidance on what really seemed to be in this regard. And that is how I believe or hope at least that this House will be relieved of the campaign discussions and propaganda debates and we will focus on this on data and on the objective facts that the state's attorney's office has in this regard. And that's where I'd be if you'd allow me, Mr. Chief Attorney, to say the following, the problem of unpunished war crimes, unfortunately, remains. There remains a problem of unpunished war crimes committed in 1991, 1995, whether it is a 1991 action conducted by the Croatian military and police in western Slavonia, especially in Požega kollina, whether it is the actions of Flash and Storm, where unfortunately many crimes have not been sanctioned. A refugee column headed from the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina on the bridge near Gradiska should be subject to investigation. The shelling of that column and the discussion of a crime being committed there would have to be the subject of an investigation. The same applies to a column that moved from the Republic of BiH during the "Storm" at the Bosnian Petrovic in the BiH area, as well as a column at Žirovec near Dvor. Other individual crimes like the Variations we know about and heard about here, and we have no knowledge of what state the investigation would have to be subject to work. I cite only individual cases, I could cite others, but I don't think it's necessary and it's not necessary to burden this House and the MPs and the MPs, although it would be a good thing if people were referred to it, that as we have this information that we have other data as well. I'm not looking for them, but I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to know that. When a report from the Vukovar area is reported, Veleport is mentioned with the right, but what about the first episode of Velepromet in which Serbs were brought and brought in and were liquidated? We hear about it, we know about this thing, but the state needs to treat it equally. Therefore, we, who have done your job by informing the MPs and MPs about the state of the war crimes process, appreciate and once again underline the need to pay attention to the unprocessed war crimes that I have been talking about in the past. Secondly, when it is an international dimension, if unprocessed war crimes are to be avoided, it will be a complication in mutual relations and will be a complication and because, unfortunately, the agreements so far on co-operation between the state's attorneys or prosecutors and the justice departments have been more or less suspended. I understand that you have meetings, I understand that you are cooperating but a good part of things can only be solved through cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Serbia. If this is not done, we will risk the situation that we will have to have collective charges where we will bring groups of people who will be prosecuted by our courts but will not be prosecuted by those who need to be prosecuted. It's a case of the Trpinje and the patient groups, unfortunately. And then the price is paid by people who, with this crime that was committed unquestionably and doubtless, have nothing to do with it. But true co-operation with competent institutions that should co-operate with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia is not because there is no legal framework for it. And we, Mr. Chief Lawyer, plead that this framework is created as soon as possible so that we don't have intervention situations like the Maric case, that ad hoc solutions are created for it. It's not hard to do that either if necessary, but what's important is that there is an adequate framework. A special story is, of course, an atmosphere in our public where, unfortunately, we are not critical of war crimes to the other side. And the third thing I would like to mention, which is part of the point that we have on the agenda tomorrow, which is the question of the Supreme Court Report of the Republic of Croatia, which is the question of the relationship between the State Attorney's Office and the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. You do not state it here in this report, but I, as a representative in this House, already do not know in what mandate I am obliged to begin to say it. Is there co-ordination between the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia and there is co-operation that guarantees justice and legality? And hasn't there been any competence over the past few years as to how to get as far as possible of a better legal solution as possible than an obstruction? And we didn't happen what we have as an impression based on monitoring media and others that these two branches important to the rule of law in our Republic of Croatia actually sometimes wage small wars? And if that is the case and if our impressions are close to the truth, isn't it the time Mr. State's Attorney to start talking about it in this House and to say that you can't, in this respect, do all the necessary jobs that the law requires of you and the law requires of you? Is it because those lawyers have enough money to protect their clients when it comes to corruption? When is the abuse of authority or position, or is the relationship between the State's attorney and the judiciary much more complicated? [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112778	Replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112779	Dear fellow Pupovac, a very short, legally unregulated state that cannot provide enough, and otherwise modest means for the prosecution or for the State's Attorney's Office for Regulation, Justice and Democracy are neither more difficult. It's too little money in what you said about equipment, about everything the state's attorney's office needs to provide in a country where the perception of corruption is very large, in a country whose citizens expect to finally begin to solve those backdrops from the '90s that occurred at the time of conversion and privatisation. To leave the state's attorney's office that with fewer people than it's supposed to be without a computer, it's really unserious because that money doesn't mean as much to one state as it does to the teamwork of the state's attorney. And we will support your proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112780	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112781	If we were not in a specific situation or a potentially specific situation in relation to the state's attorneyship as officials in the Republic of Croatia, I would suggest that we do what a number of us or has done or wants to do when it is an immunological institution Wednesday. And that means we're forming a kind of fund to help the state's attorney's office. But we can't do that because our situation doesn't allow us to because today, tomorrow, we can face different kinds of risks, challenges, and as far as I understand the law, we wouldn't be allowed. But our obligation is, dear colleagues and colleagues, to call on the government in our conclusion after this report to ensure in the next budget the necessary means for the teaming, either technically or by the human resources of the state's attorney, and to at least in such a minimal way bring it into an equal position with those other people who do not have the problem. Especially they don't have a problem with money. And the state's attorney's office should monitor where and how the money moves. And how will they track where and how money moves, for example, during the trial and during court proceedings if there are no minimum assumptions that it does so? For that reason, I thank you for your replica and for your support when it comes to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112782	It's the HNS club and the respected Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112783	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club will support the State Attorney's Office's 2014 report. And for very specific reasons. The first stems from the fact that it is possible for the state's attorney's office to work quality and adequately if it has good working conditions and on the other hand if the parliament that chooses the state's attorney is indeed behind it. Today, in a whole series of discussions on behalf of the clubs in replicas and answers, we have also learned a lot of information that may not have been written in this report but are interesting, important for the general environment in which the Croatian State Attorney's Office works. I'd like to take a little polymize with some attitudes. Namely, the information we received in this report on general, material, financial and personnel opportunities in which the state's attorney's office is definitely not comfortable. And we agree, the state's attorney's office can't work successfully if he's struggling with the staff, if there are over a hundred unfulfilled seats of state attorneys and deputies if he hasn't been able to open a tender for the trainees for four years, so to rebuild, fill the personnel structure even though he's missing five hundred computers so that he can functionally implement a new system that allows him to electronically base all the data and make available to him all the information he needs for successful work, so if you want ultimately for quality reporting on what they're doing. But the fact is also that in 2014, the state's attorney's office had about 12 million kunas more than a year ago. So it's not that the reduced assets are probably in the overall structure of different cost items. According to the 2013 report, 299 and some million kuna were available. From this report, we see 311. Probably all of this together isn't enough, especially in light of the fact that BUSKOK acts in very inadequate conditions. So the question arises whether something concrete was actually done in this sense, whether it was contacted by the State Office for the Making of State Property and whether it was doing something concrete in order to get a new address or more quality spatial conditions for the operation of USKOK which, as we heard, only has one interrogation room that is below each level. According to the 2013 report, 40 more people worked in the state's attorney's system than in 2014, so there was a decline in the number of employees in the system. What is definitely worrying is that there are 10 state lawyers, 2 county and 8 municipal, 133 deputy, 159 advisers, 181 trainees according to the systematization designed for the optimal way of functioning of the DORH system. It is difficult to work under these conditions and it is no wonder that in Gajevo, but also at the addresses of county state lawyers see light and late in the night, these are not normal working conditions. Of course, certain cases of such a type are that they are constantly working on them until they are prepared for a certain next phase, but you cannot be concentrated at 3 o'clock a night as well as at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The state's attorney reported that the total number of criminal charges dropped by 10%. It doesn't mean anything, unfortunately, because as we know there are all kinds of criminal charges, we know that their total number means nothing compared to the real state of the level of crime. The fact is, it is a general impression to the public that the level of corrupt misdemeanors, especially corrupt misdemeanors, remains extremely high. I don't believe it, I think trends are changing, but now that those cases are coming into the process, we see exactly by the years when they happened from our closer past, so from 3, 4, 5 years ago. Part of the public has the impression that this is happening now, so the people who are being accused, who are being charged with criminal charges, the defendants' proposals, that this has happened now. Now I'm going to say one case, so what is being investigated by the former maritime, transport and infrastructure minister Mr. Kalmeta happened a few years ago, and now the French and the public really thinks it's because of something that happened yesterday. I think after the Eva Sanader case in that sense, the situation has changed significantly. I'm not saying that there's a missing phenomenon like corruption, abuse of position, it's simply not true. It is important for society to generate this type of offence or criminal acts, but I think that it was a turning point that made it known to everyone and to those much smaller calibers, and also to those at local level that the time of tolerance towards corruption, according to the abuse of public powers, and that the state's attorney's office, on the one hand, and the legal order of the whole, on the other hand, will work to stop this number, that what happened in the past is not forgotten and that no one can sleep peacefully. That's very important. Whoever reached out to the public pocket with his hand, to the public budget, whoever knowingly and unconsciously spent public funds on their own or group interests that are not entitled to public interest, are not in line with the public good, there is no reason to sleep, for a peaceful dream. As our neighbors would say, sooner or later a bear will knock on his door. What the state's attorney pointed out in his report, which I would like to point out in particular, are two issues related to the implementation of two laws that we know are extremely bad and in a good part inconclusive. It's a matter of tourist land and it's a matter of maritime well-being. There is a great responsibility on us, a great responsibility to the ruling majority in this assembly for not resolving these two issues. And we can say whatever we want, we haven't been successful in that, and that's what a state lawyer reminds us of every year. It's not something we generated, it's true, but it's our responsibility that we failed to resolve it. On the one hand, the conduct of state lawyers according to existing regulations in the part of the business public is seen as deliberate obstruction, braking as an action that does not contribute to local work, and on the other hand, from the perspective of the state's attorney's office, the existing regulations are the ideal basis for scaling, for grabbing someone else's, for devastation of a state which, of course, the state's attorney can't allow. And if it is already so that the state's attorney has been warning for several years that this situation is unsustainable and simply because of the subsistence of the regulations in these two segments, so by making tourist land available and the maritime goods issue must be brought to a higher legal framework, then it is obviously an alarm for the alarm. Because then we have just the opposite space of chaos where from the middle to the middle, completely different situations occur, or they go into absolutely the most rigid solutions, or something that has nothing to do with healthy logic. So it's the responsibility of us who are the ruling majority. However, in addition to these two questions, I would like to point out one more thing, and it ultimately expires from this report rather than from the Government's opinion, which is that in the part relating to cooperation with the Office of the Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights in 2014 provided Croatia with a number of lawsuits of previous years relating to the work or failure of state attorneys or in which the prosecution claims that they have been injured by fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. In its opinion, the government cited and dispersed cases relating to inefficient investigations of which part also relates to non-action or mistreatment from the State's Attorney's Office system. There you have to be honest and say this is the result of someone's past work from previous years. It is for State Attorney Cvitan to show very soon discontinuity in this regard and to do everything possible to ensure that the capacity of the State Attorney's Office implements active measures which will in fact eliminate those remarks which the European Court of Justice has rightly pointed out and addressed in one part and to the inaction or misaction of the State's Attorney's Office, such as in the Beganovic case where the competent State Attorney's Office has not taken any action for 28 months. We give full and full support to Mr. Cvitan's attorney, and not only that, but we ask him to uncompromisingly and with full sails carry out the mission of the State's Attorney's Office as defined by the Constitution and the laws. The state's attorney must have the support of the Parliament who chose him and in this sense he must feel that we have his back. Because the job he's doing is one of the most important jobs in the Republic of Croatia. The difficulties it has in the system must be resolved by those personnel, technical, financial and any other in relation to those in charge. But he must have our full mandate that what he promised before the Croatian Assembly with success and fulfillment. In that sense, all the best. Cheers!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112784	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112785	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, Beus Richembergh, you mentioned the maritime well-being. It is rare that today’s report recalls even the maritime goods of the Marine Good Act. In this report as well as the 2011 reports, '12, '13. It's the same. that it is necessary to adopt a new Law on the Sea Good. I'd say it's a crime that's no less than what you mentioned in the first part of your exposure. I wonder who's comfortable and who's fit for this sea-good mess to write about how a new law should be passed every year and we don't bring it. The Croatian Democratic Community Club in this House adopted a bill of its own, and you personally promised that by December of last year it would be yours or the proposal of the ruling on benches in the Parliament. That hasn't happened yet. Apparently not until this summer break. Namely, the real estate in this area is in the status of general goods and extra-legal traffic and cannot be acquired ownership rights or other real rights. But a number of bad entries in the land book prove that the legal ban was not carried out properly. The subject of March 2005 is still in the State's Attorney's Office and is not being resolved, as this large and significant Law on Maritime Goods is expected. To make things worse, we now have the legalization of illegally built buildings and all those outside the six-metre belt. I wonder who and when they'll answer, because these privates are getting work solutions neatly, hiring workers, paying taxes, giving and all, and we're just waiting for a new law that this House is not able to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112786	The replica matches the esteemed Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112787	Dear colleagues, that as chairman of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Assembly in my part, I do not feel responsible for what you have mentioned, and this is for the adoption of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, I would probably not mention it or address it to anyone else. I'm ashamed we didn't do the job. It was our duty, it was a task given to us by the profession, which gave us the situation from the field, and I'm sorry it wasn't done. I'm even more sorry that it's not up to me, but someone else who hasn't done the task on our behalf. But it's a good thing you called me just because you gave me creamworth as my colleague in the Tourism Committee and the Mayor of Vodice. Here I suggest to Mr. Cvitan, that for entertainment, if anything else makes an insight into how the demarcation was done, that is, how the line of maritime good was drawn in the case of the Imperials in Vodice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112788	We're moving on to an individual debate. Joseph Kregar signed up. He's gone. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112789	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are today as it is in the Parliament. I had a replica this morning, I couldn't get an answer that would satisfy me, so I'm going to do a little bit about it, but also some of the situations that were going on during 2014. I know that one part of the year you weren't the attorney general. You came in three months ago. But there have been situations before that that have certainly left a mark on the overall life in the Republic of Croatia. It is often said that there are no investors in us because they are on the media pages, in the media often black chronicles, i.e. topics with accused politicians, accused commissioners, mayors and simply as investors flee from such a state and it was quite visible during the period in particular in 2010, and in 2011, it all kind of stalled in the period 2012, in 2013 it somehow relaxed. In the last year here we've all followed what's been happening on this issue and we can say that we can see some progress, perhaps a different behavior of the DORH himself and the leading people. But today, in my replica, I turned to a part that concerns me. Today 26 years since the founding of HDZ, I am a member of HDZ, and during 2014 there was a presidential campaign, the end of 2014. They came out like that, let's say claims that aren't benign. So, when a journalist is ready to say that I've been doing it and that or I've met with these and these people, we're together something like we should have planned to criminalize someone, to make something happen, etc. We can't say it's to be taken for granted and ate a donkey wolf, nothing, someone's been playing a little bit. Anything is possible, however, we have asked that the DORH or you, as the attorney general, be heard about it. What did he do about it? You said there weren't any criminal charges, etc. However, on the DORH pages, there is one question that you are giving the answer to. The question is, does a state attorney have to take criminal charges to initiate a criminal trial? And then he writes in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on Criminal Procedure, the State's attorney is obliged to act when only a voice has been heard that a criminal offence has been committed for which he is prosecuted under official duty. Therefore, a state lawyer does not have to wait for a formal receipt of criminal charges from the damages, police or other state bodies, he will act when he finds out that there are basic doubts that a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty has been committed. It's a well-known rule in the work of state attorneys. So we had an event that happened, undeniably. He ended up in the media, he's in public. And that event must have shocked many. So, you have events that happen independently, I'm just saying if anyone said anything. You have a statement from this reporter that says that this plan was supposed to look like. So, the plan was well realized, it included HDZ bankruptcy, prosecution, fragmentation into miniature parts. That's not a harmless statement. The one who says that, and we know that today because of some status on the social network or some post of comment below some text, you can be prosecuted. So, if it's done somewhere, this part can. This isn't just printed, this is audiovisually shown. So we can't say that no one saw anything, no one heard anything from me. And now what happens after that? We've got six months gone by, no one's said anything. And the situations that happen in the political field simply suggest that someone might be right and that someone was really doing something. I won't claim so, but that's why we have the State's Attorney's Office, and we keep saying that we want it to be good, perfect, best, and to protect the interests and individuals, but also the states in the part where it can. Because if that's not the case, then you're an ordinary citizen or we as politicians can retain the right and say there might be some kind of policy and someone's acting that way, no matter how right we were at that point if there was no action. So I'd really like you to tell us if anything's been going on or if nothing's happened. Because they're not saying harmless accusations. Because the one who says that is aware that someone might have to ask him something about it. Secondly, here we heard today that there were many affairs and current ministers in 2014. We have one situation that I don't know after the removal of the H.C. Administration, the removed director is raising a criminal or announcing a criminal application against the minister who replaced him for some acts. So, the story went through the media, everyone read something, and everything happened in a few days, and then you no longer have any knowledge and someone turned out to be playing or there was really nothing there. And then I think that maybe the state's attorney's office is the most experienced by ordinary citizens by that court, which then comes down to the fact that something politically colored. Maybe that's where you need to work, maybe you're already on the right track, but just to avoid these things. Because here we have again, a colleague has now spoken on behalf of the HNS Club and he mentions an indictment recently filed for the 2009 act. In that story, let's say we have a story that one of the witnesses said, and we gave that stranger a million kunas. In that party, everyone found out that no one saw that million kuna and no one saw anything. How come now? You understand? Double standards, here we're talking about one damage that's so many thousand kunas, and here someone says, so I gave a million kunas, it went in somewhere, and everybody's acting weird, they just don't want to say that someone took it and we go with our story. But mostly it always gets negative on one side. What I have come up for is a problem that has plagued many Croatian citizens, especially on the coast, which is the famous Raiffeisen Savings and Raiffeisen Cooperatives. This is a question that has been being dragged into this House for more than a few months, almost a year, and in the lives of these people since 2005 until now, almost 10 years. And everyone who talks about it has almost the same knowledge. We have a statement from the CNB that says no such loans were allowed. We have court proceedings on private lawsuits where they find themselves incompetent in private lawsuits of the prosecutor and Raiffeisen Savings Department and we have the answers of the Croatian Government that all these activities can be stopped if in the court it is proved that someone committed a crime of let's say by that side. by those savings banks. And we listen to that story, but the lives of citizens deny everything done throughout the system by telling the citizen himself through the DORH, the judicial authorities to the courts that make the end of the decision. And these days, 20 people, 20 families from the island of Rab simply lost their houses by the court's decision. So we have a life that flows, we have a system that exists, and we have the impotence that shows the entire system from the government, from the ministries to the DORH or the courts that say we simply can't do anything about it, you take the loan and you choose to return it and what I'm saying is even worse than what happens with the situation with Swiss francs and loans in Swiss francs. Here we have an organized association that is very good at doing so and in some ways trying to fight for their rights, and there the executive power has shown some interest. But here people were protesting, and I think they were protesting in front of the DORH if I'm not wrong last year at the 7th month, if I remembered it well, and just nobody has any information and no more. Criminal charges have been filed, everything is written and the system simply seems to be standing. These people write daily, they call, they ask, so how do we get out of this story, we try not to argue, we want it back, but it's not possible to return something in the way that they've obliged you to return, and that's often the interest interest, interest on interest, so you've got the treatment where these savings representatives came to Rab Island, entered unauthorized private facilities, filmed these facilities, and the ones they've been filming these days have ended up in business. The police have also acted in some of their actions, etc. But life is said to have denied our entire system and people have lost their property. So if we have to show impotence, then this is a very bad way to say it, to find out that everything is great and everything is good and the report is rightly good and best, and that citizens are getting hurt because the system is ultimately not as effective as we expect it to be. Well, I'd like to ask you some answers from these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112790	Thank you. Dear Goran Maric reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, a few words of commendation on the account of the report because I have not long seen a technical and content-quality report made, and I am particularly pleased that a report was finally written in the Croatian language which came to the Croatian Parliament and was concerned that it was written in Croatian. But a few notes, here's what, of course, your job is also extremely responsible, complex, demanding but there are so many situations that act on movements in society and I am most interested in those situations that affect economic and economic activity. So I'd like to express a few impressions in this debate. First of all, since it has been very secret years of interest to me, I know you can't give an answer but here I am asking a public question if the interests of the Republic of Croatia protects the state's attorney's office how is it possible for us to get into such a situation that the Republic of Croatia is representing private and commercial banks in the event of a claim on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings in the Bank of Ljubljana? I don't call anyone, but I don't know how it's possible to bring the state into such a paradoxical situation, why isn't it representing the state's attorney's office for years and how it's possible, by which technical documentation or what legal exhibitionism could have led to banks representing the Republic of Croatia? Woe to a state represented by a private commercial bank in any procedure, especially when it is legally different. There are several, we have already heard here about maritime goods and maritime goods problems, so there is no unknown fact that some private companies have entered the property without having entered the company's core capital at all. And it passed that no one answered for it. He became the owner of something he didn't own, not in a statement of property issued by the Croatian Privatisation Fund never showed up, and someone signed up for the property. For 25 years, some private companies have been using the so-called. tourist land without one kuna fee. It's not their land so it's possible that someone's using anything for free? If nothing else is paid tax on it for any fee, then it was just a symbolic fee. But I can't accept the situation that someone privately uses state property without any compensation for commercial purposes, and that's not directly related to the 2014 report, but it's one long-term practice. A slightly fresher date was the finding of the State Audit on the sale of Croatia insurance which it established and the State audit found that the decision was against the law and that the decision on sale was to be taken by the Croatian Parliament and not by the Government as it did because, according to a law that was never laid down outside the power of the Social Capital Insurance and Reinsurance, which has been in force since 92 years and is never in force, it is foreseen that the Croatian Parliament is making such a decision. I think the state's attorney's office should see about what to do and do because if something's wrong, it can't survive, and if it's valid to say it's valid. Advocacy settlements are one of so many things that they have entered, if there is no other discrimination and illogicality, but there are also those who leave bitter taste regardless of whose views it is, if someone has estimated some land on 2.6 million kuna, and later the state has recognised it at 34 million kunas, the same land today, or the day that it has admitted that it is worth 34 million kunas can't be sold for 34 million kunas here let's advertise it and see if it's worth 2.4 or 34. It's a place where heads and political and responsibility have fallen, but it's too wide a range of 2.5 million to 34 million and the state has recognised a price for which it certainly can't get. 9 IRS leaders were replaced on a heavy charge as if it were the largest organized criminal group three years ago. I've been reading somewhere recently that not even an internal investigation has been launched, let alone some major criminal responsibility. The former minister was saying that it was actually for the jump action that it was supposed to be taken over. On the other hand, some other people who had to be replaced later were brought in. Much remains unclear, but it is possible that nine people are responsible for something that turned out not to be responsible for now. How are we gonna get these three years of their lives back? Who's gonna pay them back? Someone must've hit the mud. At the same time, the State Audit find says that no regulated action has been taken under concessions and that no one has answered who has not taken the prescribed actions at the cost of concessions because they are not charged at all. The state audit says in one case that the concession fee if it can't even be charged to the local unit to compensate for the costs of resuscitating road access, it's so minimal. And it's been written in the State Audit for years, and it's been like nothing's been... We have Croatian waters that are state-owned did not register their property. How is it possible that someone doesn't care about their property? We have a failure to pay is a criminal offense, so we have a conscious lack of pay, deliberately doesn't pay the wages. They do business with connected people, and they won't pay their wages. We have a deliberate non-payment of suppliers, which could be rather than leaving the impression that it's an unconscious business. If individuals are paid in advance and others are not paid in any way without legal qualifications, the impression remains that this is an unconscious business and that we cannot encourage it so. Today is the biggest uncertainty if you have delivered the goods or done a service whether you will charge them or not, and not because of the circumstances, but because of those who decide not to pay and will not pay and do so on purpose. I call no one to account but for the unsustainability of such a situation. The economic risk in Croatia is the greatest of all EU countries' risks. At economic risk, we consider it possible to collect the obligations made or delivered goods and services. The state audit found that one ministry had to ask for an annual parking ticket, they would not pay 600,000 kuna more. Well, I'm not even gonna tell you how to qualify for that kind of behavior. Others go from cheaper to more expensive to buy, end of state property locks with private property and pays no market price. I won't even call it what I think about it, but it's an unsustainable condition. So if only we could read more carefully the results of the State Audits, we could see that the new state budget is being spent to a very high degree, and I can say very often and unconsciously. And what I end up with, I have a lot to say, but I'm still going on about the impression. The other day I said when she was here as a child's attorney as if she had set up a single group of individuals in Croatia, and these are paedophiles. Never again more pronounced appearances of such brutal, inhumane actions, anti-humane conduct, and this is Mr. State's Attorney's appeal, please do everything possible to protect our children from the insolence of such brutal animal impulses. Let's not protect them, but let's give them names and last names, arrest them in front of the cameras, if we have to arrest them, but I have the impression that the whole society is not even in the media as if nothing's happening. I may have the wrong impression, but I wish it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112792	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112793	Dear colleague Maric, I agree with this part, in fact, with most of your debate. You were wondering how it was possible for banks to represent the state. A logical question, but I would expect the issue on the right side of me from the Social Democratic government, which still needs to preserve some of the rootings of ethics. However, it is perfectly normal for them that the banks that have led the citizens in Croatia to represent the Croatian state, Croatian citizens because the state is Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, banks seem to be determining politics in Croatia, banks are making solutions, banks are being humbly asked by the minister, the finance minister has been threatening banks for several months now that the government is going to do something. And these banks smitten with a high-ranking minister because they see that the minister does not intend to do what he says because that we would already have on the benches of the bill today. When will he present the bill of 15.12? I hope there will be no more of this assembly. So, banks represent the state but banks also run politics, banks are this large capital that determines, in fact, most of them are handlifters.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112794	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112795	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I think, is how it is, my question of how it is possible has nothing to do with either the left or the right. That's my attitude. It's just not possible by law. And what seemed to be the exhibition of one or more of these legal entities, then I can only interpret it as being conscious and targeted, so let's determine who did it and on what basis, and then we'll see. I think that this phenomenon is bad and unrelated to who did it to see who dared to place such a phenomenon as some kind of measure of behavior as a valid rule. The banks only took over one piece. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is asking the Bank of Ljubljana only for the transferred part of the savings and for the untransmitted part of the savings are being sought directly by the former Ljubljanska Banka. Who protected them? No one. We don't protect the state, we don't protect the people. Then how can we progress? Or we let ourselves be protected by those who have brought us most into this situation. But here's another note about the impression again. Often, banks owned by the state were hit, and many processes were based on the fact that someone abused the position and authority because loans were granted without adequate collateral. I mean, if the same criterion were applied that even in private commercial banks that approved billions and billions of kuna without corresponding collateral, similar situations could happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112796	Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112797	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Maric, you mentioned Croatian waters that do almost nothing about the book of public water goods. The truth and the state's attorney says in his report that Croatian waters should have supplied the state's attorney with the necessary information to register the public water goods, according to the Water Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. Namely, these unresolved property legal relations led to people building fences, auxiliary facilities, building even their own facilities, operating permits, and rerouting natural water flow. In September of last year, in the area of Sibenik-Knin County and the town of Vodice, we had heavy rains. However, these floods would certainly not have been so if natural water flows had not been redirected. Therefore, I think it is not enough for the State's Attorney's Office to just say that this procedure is too slow and it is uncertain when at this rate the process of recording the public water good will be completed at all, should already order the Croatian waters to carry out this procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112798	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112799	Thank you very much, dear colleague Yurichev. So I just mentioned Croatian water as an example of how it does not care about the property of the Republic of Croatia. But here I will add Croatia's forests not only not to care, but Mr. State Attorney, if we do more carefully analyse the behaviour of the Croatian forests then it is visible that they have contracts annually with users and customers from the Croatian forests at certain prices and receive for the agreed annual quantities. But when that same tree is auctioned, that same buyer buys that tree at 40% higher price. How is it possible for someone to negotiate an annual quantity below 40% of the market price? But what is, there is a little deeper, they throw out small producers because in Croatia the worst is to be a small producer, the best... , because when he gets a big contract he even gets a bonus if he wins a small bid and then he increases the amount at a lower price because he bought it at auction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how we can look at things like that. We do not sell Croatia's natural potentials, natural resources, but sell out when the forest is specifically Croatian and when it comes to the work of the Croatian forests. It's visible from the contract, I see it from the contract. If, for example, I'm saying the word 60 things per cubic bit and at the bidding, that same beech is 100. And the same buyer. And then more rewards for that customer who bought 100, because now you bought at the market price now we're going to reward you, so we're going to give you an even bigger amount at that lower price. Which I can only say for God's sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112800	And now I'm asking the Attorney General of Mr. Dinko Cwitan to give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112801	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I have to say that I thank you all for the discussions you had on this report, because I, too, want to hear suggestions, comments and criticisms as well as how the report is written to make the following better, to make it more comprehensive, so that you, as parliamentary representatives, can make decisions, give initiatives to change the rules and improve the overall state of affairs in the country, and that is generally expected of this highest House in Croatia. I apologize if I'm going to skip because the discussion was so much, there were lots of clubs, there were a lot of MPs, I'm going to try to answer some questions and even the questions of those MPs that aren't here right now. So Mr. Mlakar said the report should be balanced, namely 2/3 of the report that it relates to the conduct of the criminal departments, 1/3 to the conduct of the civil-government departments. I think we will have to balance the reports next year because, indeed, as Mrs Ingrid Anticevic said, it is one state's attorney's office with two departments and how important it is to prosecute the perpetrators of the crimes is the undisputed and protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. The example is, the arbitration process is under way where the value of the 200m-euro dispute is, so everyone would now say that they should do their best to help the legal team in interpreting the rights, in obtaining evidence, in determining the facts because the loss of such a dispute in arbitration is, in fact, challenging the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. So that's one suggestion we'll try to appreciate next year anyway. It was a matter of written and unwritten instructions. So I'm really doing this job as a top state attorney appreciates independence and independence in work. State lawyers, or lower national attorneys, shall be obliged to inform the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 42. The law on state, attorney's office on those matters which are legal and factual, which are relevant for the overall work of the State's attorney, ultimately and for the Republic of Croatia and are obliged to inform the State's attorney of the intended decision or decision he will make. The attorney general then has the opportunity to order and can do so first orally but certainly by written means to act in a specific way that is different from that given by a competent state attorney. For this little over a year, I took advantage of that legal option and I gave a mandatory guidance, it was about withdrawing the indictment in one case. Namely, I was not first informed by the State's attorney about this case, and he fulfilled all the conditions, on the other hand, that the indictment was so brought on, so written that it would appear in my opinion that the prosecution would be dismissed, and since the fact that it was not established or we can't claim whether anyone, whether there was a suspicion that someone had committed or committed a crime, in case he committed a criminal offence, would not have been dismissed by the court by rejecting the indictment, would have been wronged by the state's attorney. And for this reason, I have ordered further evidence to be carried out, to carry out other evidence and that we can safely tell whether the work was done or the work was not done. If the indictment is committed, but if it is not committed then the proceedings or proceedings will be suspended, that investigation will be suspended. So I once used my right. As for unwritten instructions, there are no unwritten instructions. It is true that I am involved in the work of teams in large objects, and above all at the level of knowledge, although I have some experience in working with specific subjects in USKOK, so I like to hear and see and, of course, only from the level of my knowledge and experience can I give my suggestions and opinions, but always in order to fully establish the facts, not what would be the decision. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't want any way of saying it in a small myst or in a veil, I don't want politics to get into my thigh. So I just don't want to. You've been witnessing lately that certain charges have been filed. We had to make these accusations, no matter how much anyone liked them or not, we had to make them, or we had to make decisions, and I didn't calculate or calculate with time, or there was any timing in all this together. I think it's good, I don't remember when the report was filed by the attorney general until the time of the summer break. There was even a situation to discuss the report two years ago in January, so I will give myself the opportunity to inform you of some of the things that I have been saying consciously, deliberately and responsibly wrote this report in order to show what the material state of the state's attorney's office is and what the human opportunities are. I'm willing to die for the state's attorney's office, I'm willing to die for justice, but I'm responsible if you don't report it. The fact is that during 2015 the Ministry of Justice took up a whole series of shops and activities, so the premises were solved. Right now, the move to Pula is coming up, so a big problem is being solved. The problem I was talking about last year in Sisak has been solved, so the steps have been made. I'm the one who apostropheed the Bounce. The objectively speaking, it is not the chief state attorney without USKOK is no chief state attorney because that is what is causing public attention, and finally as Mr. Mlakar said this report is not attractive and it is unfortunately both fortunate and fortunate. But believe me, there is no politicization. Mrs. Sumrak asked what happened to a politician's brother, the former minister filed a report, the application was rejected and published on the DORH website. Otherwise when we talk about communication, so I listened carefully to your thoughts, whether it's good to keep quiet or it's good to talk a lot, whether it's good to run from cameras or to take pictures all the time. We need to find the right balance. We need to find the right balance. I'm working on a public relations strategy so back a few years ago, a website appeared, some kind of transparency is but sometimes it turns out to be funny. I have to say that sometimes it turns out ridiculous because on the one hand, we have a legal restriction under the Personal Data Protection Act where you can't put names and last names against whom you've launched an investigation or brought charges against those persons, and the public has the right to know and then don't mind but we're being ridiculous with our statements. So you're so cleverly told: USKOK filed charges against the former prime minister (I.S., 1954).). That's funny, but on the other hand, we have a limit. We're seriously thinking that at some intervals, that I, as a top state attorney with my team, show up in front of the press, answer the questions so that there's not all of them, that we can do one demystification of our work. I believe and agree with you that once a year, it is not enough when only these statistics are obtained and I agree with your conclusion that this means 5%, 10%. The problem is comparisons with other countries as you say, Mr. Vuksic. That would be very interesting. Now I'm troubled, it's intrigued me, it's bothering me how to get the reference and the serious data as it is in Lithuania, how it is I don't know Austria, Germany etc. But we'll consider that possibility, so with the goal of providing you with as much information as possible, and whether it's going to be good or not, we'll try to do what we can. Mr. Representative, just one second, Mr. Djurovic mentioned the budget of USKOK 50 million kuna. You're gilded. It's not 50 million kuna. It's 20 million kuna. I wish the budget was 50 million kuna, then for those 30 million we could build a building. They don't ask you for any luxury, you know. They're not the whiners. It's good for them and their two squares to sit in, but it's inappropriate, you know. Inappropriately, these are not working conditions where a person can do his job peacefully and constantly. Mr Vuksic has asked for several cases and treatment of state lawyers who have left the system. One of the state's attorneys you mentioned, I've filed a tight procedure against her. She quit. I can't go into details here, but what I want to say, so the concept of the state's attorney's office should be used, so that's how it should be used what's best. It's not all good. The fact is that time has shown from one ridiculous BUSKOK who was all laughing at there at the beginning of his work, to some situation and time of development that led me to believe that USKOK brand is in the judicial circles of Europe, not the region, but Western Europe has led us to try to think about how this kind of work I'm talking about criminal cases projected on regular state attorneys. The only way to do that is to mutilate the jump a little bit. So there are three best deputies, I won't say best, but the best deputies are now appointed county state attorneys. So, that your knowledge, your experience, your proactive approach to criminal reporting and really inventiveness in the work, one attraction of all the competent state authorities to give all the data they have, an analysis of this data to obtain a valid result. Because USKOK was in some way choked by regular state attorneys, and there are very serious cases in regular state attorneys. So when it comes to responsible persons, and not officials, we can't say they're smaller objects. These are equally important items. The second question is, for example, the confiscation of the property benefit where an extended confiscation of the property benefit is possible only for actions of the jumping authority, hence the official person. Let's just say it's the mayor, the mayor, but it doesn't apply to responsible people. Imagine the director of a public firm not subject to that, disaster. The director of a public company can have billions, and the head of the municipality can have a budget of 50,000 kuna. So that's where we gave certain initiatives to make the right changes. You asked a question from a certain police officer. Therefore, when the application was submitted, further data were requested and the state's attorney's decision would be taken. It was very interesting, therefore by Mr. Caine's thesis, that he sometimes lacked the wishes and will of some state's attorneys. I would ask you if it is possible, I know that DORH is a synonym of the State's Attorney's Office, but DORH is the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. A few years ago I saw it on a website, or on a teletext page of a television, I'm not going to say which. It said this: "Today in Belgrade, representatives of the Croatian and Serbian DORH met." I mean, it's a little funny sometimes, but it's still the DORH. Maybe it's because there's been a personalization of the D.O.R.H. In the person of the attorney general. I already told you, I don't think that's good, that we should have responsible people. So right now we have 15 county attorneys and 22 municipal lawyers, because there's been a rationalization of the network of state attorneys. I want that level of responsibility to be established and I want the supervisory function of the DORH, which is going in two directions. So it's a follow-up by species and areas of crime, so by groups of the Penal Code, and on the other hand by territorial principle. So, basically, a deputy state attorney from the criminal department has to monitor his form of crime, like murder, serious murder, so against life and body. But if she's in charge of two county state attorneys, it's his obligation to know everything that happens in those state's attorneys. Of course, he can't know everything. And that's one process that's been initiated. We've already had a few controls. So we've controlled four county and municipal state's attorneys. This year we'll be controlling two major state attorneys. Not to control someone to tell you you got a score of -2 or +3 but to point to possible improvements in work in the system of evaluation that works very well. So it's an individual evaluation of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys. The fact is, from all these discussions, I still feel that the state is usually treated as a body of general supervision. So when you asked a journalist, I'll say it openly, Mr. Malic said something. And I understand in a political context that this is a very serious situation for a party whose member you are. However, Mr. Malic is one serious man, at least that's how I treat him. If he has any proof of it, indeed, let Mr. Malic come, let him have the phone, let him call, he will be admitted immediately, and let him show that suspicion which it is. We follow the media as closely as we can. I don't watch that show if it's on TV. But the fact is, we can't comment on everything, we can't hear everything. It's a tough rule of law that says it reaches a vote to the state's attorney's office. Sometimes I'm sorry I don't have 150 heads so I can hear everything and see everything. It's very difficult. And on the other hand, what's important is what actually comes out of all your discussions is the synergy of all the competent state bodies. Here's the lady last said order the Croatian waters. We have no power to impose anything on Croatian waters. We don't have those powers. But what we have an obligation to link the competent state authorities, provide material resources to get the IRS databases connected to the IRS, to the Ministry of Finance, to the Ministry of the Interior, has been there for many years now. But also with other competent state bodies. Crucial crime, and that's the future that we're going to, I think we need to think about, is tax evasion. It's the most important crime, so I don't want to talk about classic crime murder, rape, etc. What we must always do. But tax evasion is a key crime. So someone didn't pay and he took our money, he took our kids' money, he denied the money to the state budget. And that's where we have to do a lot more than it is. I said an independent sector was established, but the fact is that over the years when you see that the Tax Administration did not behave as expected of it. Of course, part of the IRS worked fantastically, but there was a jump out of the system. But let's go watch, let's go see what's going on, what's the situation and how it's going to improve. That's very important. When I mentioned there in 2006 USKOK therefore, with the will of the IRS and the Ministry of Finance, received direct import into the IRS database, and that of course made BUSKOK among other things made it USKOK different because it had access to these databases. So there was no correspondence waiting. So here's really... So there we simply have to move as quickly as possible to give answers to questions as quickly as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not satisfied with the dynamics, I'm not satisfied and I have no right to be satisfied. Indeed, the justice that is slow is pointless. Not to tell you now that I recently came to the possession of the verdict I'm going to tell the second-degree court where, nine years later, the first-degree verdict was abolished by calling for injuries to the confrontation clause. The 2005 ruling, the 2014 decision, was made by no one in Croatia had any idea what a confrontation clause was. This will now result in the state's attorney being able to rise up there in court, give up prosecution against everyone, and then the state of Croatia comes to collect their stay in custody for a year. So, I take my own responsibility, but I also believe that others must bear responsibility for their work. Someone asked the question of the court's relationship with the state's attorney's office? You know what kind? In criminal proceedings, we're a party to the proceedings. And the fact is, according to law, a state attorney is conducting an investigation, not a party investigation, but a prosecution investigation, which means he's a body conducting an investigation. The law seems to suspect all the time that the state's attorney is that thug who's going to plant evidence, who's going to distort justice, who's going to beat someone and I don't know what they're doing together. I am for the absolute protection of the defendant's rights in the proceedings. And if any of the state's attorneys break that right, I'll take him down. But on the other hand, this is a complete suspicion of the whole system and the fact is that we and the courts have the same employer. It's the Republic of But we have a different approach. I know of my colleagues who are members of the task force at any law when they change then they state the state's attorney's office's position. Each of these laws passes a college and each article of that law is considered. I didn't get the impression that other members of those committees were performing in that way. It seems to me that some judges represent their own personal opinions. And I think we should talk about that, too. The basic problem is legislation, on the one hand, we're undernourished, we have a problem with the Law on the Sea Good, on the other hand we're insane. Only when you look at the CAP are the obligations of a state attorney in a previous procedure or in an investigative procedure, to whom everything must be written and to whom all must be informed, is the head of pain. That takes a lot of time. And when you look at any object, a serious object with 200, 300 thousand pages, now I'm going to tell you another piece of information, I think the public has a right to know. On 26 deputy directors and director of USKOK in 2014 there were to be 27 scribes. The prize question is, how many were there? 2. This means that the deputy directors had to do the files, do the work of the dactylographer, except when the interview was then a dactylographer or a dactylographer. They also copied, scanned, numbered, tied the files, even wrote the calls. Because the job has to be done and the deadlines are short. That's why I'm saying that what time they spend at work they're weird people to you know as well as I do. I can spend 12, 14, 16 hours every day, for years without taking a vacation. In some ways, they act strangely with me, but on the other hand, the fact is that if they spend 12 hours at work and don't work for which they're not paid, they're overpaid for that other job, they'd better work for 8, 9 or 10 hours, but they're doing that job that's his. And one mistake in procedure leads to the fall of the whole story. And then the responsibility is immeasurable. And they're aware of those responsibilities. If you'll excuse me, can I just have some more?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112802	You've got eight, nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112803	Uh, I just saw it. One of the questions asked was how many of these corruptions are there? There's a professor. Horvatic said brilliantly a few years ago, says corruption has much less than is said of it, and much more than has been processed. And that's actually true. Often we do not inform the public, so checking certain newspaper articles or certain information, e-mails, etc. You actually get that there's nothing. That's where we have to question ourselves whether we should go to our website in these situations and say no, we haven't found anything here. It's my responsibility and I have to think about it. Now, as far as the question is concerned, Mr. Boric has asked whether there are double criteria, so unfortunately as in certain situations before the courts we have had the same legal situation in one situation the court acted in one way, in another situation the court acted in another way. Believe me, we're not happy about this, but as far as we're concerned we don't want to have double standards, I don't rule out the possibility that this can happen on the ground, I don't rule out that possibility, but what I do know and how much I have insight and control it doesn't happen and it can't happen. On the other hand, you asked a question about Raiffeisen's savings. So last year I personally received, just came the gentleman from Rab, brought out the whole problem as it was, I found out them, in fact, in that conversation that they got loans in the Austrian savings company, that there were intermediaries who offered them such an opportunity, that it was usually people who weren't sollied in the Republic that they could raise any credit, they went to Austria, they got cash, let's say, along the way, they did a small foreign currency violation transferred cash to the Republic, and then part of them paid that loan, interest was not interest, and nothing happened to them, part of the person didn't pay the credit. There were also some lawyers involved against whom research is being conducted that I don't speak details, part of which they paid means that they personally carried money in Austria, which may be a minor problem, but at least they knew who they paid for, part of it taught intermediaries who didn't pay for it, so it was a criminal act of fraud, and there were also law offices that took part in it. So, all these items after we had that meeting and everything that came to the DORH, we passed it on to the competent state attorney's office and we get just as per article 42, all of the information on the conduct. So there's a situation where there's no crime of fraud, they've pawned their property and the law of the law is entered in land books, but the fact is that this loan has been raised de facto in Austria. The second question is again, what do I insist on, is that why they got paid and if they got a fee, do they have to pay the tax? I think we should pay our taxes. That's all I can say. So we're really doing everything we can, and so I talked to these people in person, and we're answering all their letters. Mr. Maric asked the question, the state's attorney's office should give answers to the question whether it is a problem, or any illegality in Croatia's insurance. You'll get the answer after we investigate all the circumstances under which this was. You mentioned a lack of awareness of service work, but you have a problem one, you know? In the Penal Code of the Crime, there is no more, no more unconscious work in the service and unconscious economic business. But there are other crimes, now I speak in principle. Anyway, I'm sorry, it's been a lot, it's really been a lot of your suggestions, we're going to take a careful look at the entire session. Well, I have to say, Mr. Pupovac, I apologize, so the question of impunity, that is, non-processing of war crimes, insufficient processing of war crimes. So, on our website are published war crimes data with known perpetrators and with unknown perpetrators. In all war crimes cases, we insist that the competent state attorney's offices are now in charge of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka to issue orders to the police to conduct criminal research and to clarify all facts and all circumstances related to individual war crimes. The problem sometimes is, and in fact, the problem is that the perpetrators are in other countries or that they are ultimately in other countries. As a result, those agreements, which are no interstate agreements, are signed but only agreements on the exchange of information between the Croatian prosecutors or the Croatian State's Attorney's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes in the Republic of Serbia. So, we try, there's no sign for us, so no matter who the perpetrator is, what kind of nation, who's the damage or who's the victim, so we just know the unsub and the victim. It means absolutely nothing to the state's attorney's office which nations, religions, ethnicities, etc. It is only important to determine whether the crime has occurred and it is important to determine who the perpetrators of this crime are. We have time-consumingly reached the criteria during the negotiations in 2008 the main state attorney has adopted the exact criteria that must be met, they are actually confirmed by the European Commission and certain national and regional priorities are set. Of the eight national priorities, six are resolved, two are not yet, one is predetermined and these days we will have a meeting with all prosecutors working on war crimes cases to establish new national and new regional priorities to speed up this whole process. Unfortunately, more times go by, these are actually opportunities reduced, but also an important issue of opening up has been raised, so the trial in absentia. You must know that the entire military summit of the former Yugoslav People's Army has been charged, I think sixteen generals and admirals. Some have died, and our view is that our children are working and for our grandchildren' sake to carry out but a proper trial in the absence of these persons with those criteria imposed by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. To record history, to say read the document, to read in the courtroom, to know what happened and say there will actually be seen everything that needs to be seen and heard how it could be estimated and assessed what was actually done and how things were happening. Finally, I'm running out of time. I've got another minute. I thank you for your discussion. I repeat, I appreciate one way to make our next report even better. We don't want to hide any information about everything. We have and we already have absolutely some new ideas that we would like to enter into this report and I have to tell you a lot of people have put a lot of work and work, someone said those tables behind are not important, and to write those tables to make them... indicators are exactly what it takes an extremely long time. As you know, and you heard from the debate and my discussion, we don't have a computer system that can combine that data at this point, so on two clicks to get some plates out, that's been done manually all these years and so on this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112804	Thank you very much, Mr. Cvitan, but we also have a replica of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112805	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's the esteemed Chief Attorney of State, I really think we've heard a lot of useful things today. I'll start with these absurd things you've been saying in the end. Isn't it absurd that when a surgeon comes to the hospital, I see how he has to type clumsyly now on his computer, I've even seen one of his own on a typewriter, he sews wounds, or pulls out drains or catheters when it's long since been done by an expert in hospitals. You said 27 deputy state attorneys write records, calls, copy, and good news they're not taking a broom and a target yet. A state that treats the state's attorney's office or prosecutors deserves much less. That state doesn't care about the safety of its citizens because the State's Attorney's office instead of doing everything, that you say you don't have a system that would give you those two clicks and throw out your plate. That's what you have to have, that the State's Attorney's office has to have. Therefore, we hope that the next report, that we will hear from you that these material issues will be resolved and then all of us sitting here or who will be sitting here in the future have the right to demand a full contribution from the State's Attorney's Office. This way, under "scared" with insufficient personnel, with insufficient money, with technological inoperability, you're probably doing what you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112806	You'll answer? Attorney General Dinko Cvitan's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112807	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So it's not going to be a reply to the replica, it's going to be one piece of information. There was a question, I'm sorry there was a lot of what we did in terms of the space of UskoK. So we also made requests and the State Office for State Property Management, some premises we've already looked at, the Ministry of Justice asked the State Office, but I filed a report for 2014. Namely, writing this report and preparing for this debate, I watched as it was since 2010. It must be seen continuity and what they say in Europe must be seen progress. That's why I find this support that you've given us so I understand, so very important because by solving these issues on the one hand, we're dealing with serious issues and I'm deeply aware that I'm taking on a terrible responsibility because there's no longer an excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112808	Thanks again to the attorney general. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112809	The annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2014, the debate on the report was concluded. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′The Annual report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. ′′. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 3 votes in abstention and 15 votes against, have reached the proposed conclusion. In line with the SDSS Club's proposal, I am voting on the following conclusion: Given the fact that, from year to year, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia reports highlight the lack of funding for its technical, electronic and personnel teaming, which is, in particular, a serious obstacle to the possibility that it is currently fully effective in carrying out its constitutional obligations and in the protection of legality, representatives of the Croatian Parliament are asked by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure, in the next budget, the necessary increase in funds for those needs of the State's attorney's office, and that the same funds are planned in the next budgetary period for the following year. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, five abstentions and 11 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112810	Now, according to the agreement of the clubs we will unite the following two points, we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 850, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 846. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee, and their reports were received at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Defence Minister Mrs Višnja Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112811	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here is a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act with a draft final draft law. Since there has been a lot of debate on why we have decided on an emergency procedure today, I will briefly try to explain to you the basic reasons for the adoption of these amendments both in one law and in another. When it comes to the Defence Act, we have decided on an emergency procedure for the reason that we have one legal gap in the Defence Act, which is the inability to transfer powers to control airspace control and that was one of the basic reasons. So the NATO Federal Command has already warned us twice that we must supplement the transfer of powers given by the Chief of Staff to ensure that the federal command administered by the common air surveillance system of the NATO Member States in a possible situation when necessary could be raised by a Croatian duo who is on duty every day. By 2009 the last time was given such a transfer of power, after 2009 although there was no possibility at that time that, by law, after Croatia's entry into NATO, the alliance would then be called to the Bianca, but we are now the void that exists in the Law of Defence wanted to be completed and that is why we are going into the emergency procedure. Last week also raised some questions concerning those provisions regulated in the Defence Act, and they primarily concern that the proposed provisions are determined that the Republic of Croatia may assign part of the armed forces for the control and protection of airspace to competent commands within the common system of anti-aircraft and pro-tourque defence of international organisations to which it has joined or accessed on the basis of international agreements that the decision on the allocation of parts of the Armed Forces shall be made by the President of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the Head of the General Staff may delegate the authority of operational and tactical command and supervision of the Armed Forces referred to in paragraph 1 to in the jurisdiction of the Federal Commander on the basis of decisions referred to in paragraph 2 and with the prior consent of the Defence Minister. So it's not about any thought that we're handing over the Allied Command to our sky but it's about a standard procedure within the NATO alliance that when a federal commander who controls means the airspace of the NATO Alliance member states sees on the radar the possibility that one of the aircraft that didn't log in who entered the space unauthorized, then he's making a decision on which of the state's on call to become an escort to that plane, to talk to him, communicate with him, and sees why he entered unauthorized over the airspace of some of the states. You had a chance a while ago meaning in the press to read that it happened, meaning when a plane that did not apply entered the territory of Croatia then the federal commander had ordered a lift because he estimated that within 15 minutes that plane would leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia and had raised hunters and in Italy in a way to track it down and determine whether it had changed the route and which were the reasons. Furthermore, in order to allow others to do the same, it means that parts of the Armed Forces of other NATO member states can do the same over the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, and for this reason we have prescribed the possibility that the Croatian Parliament will, since it is part of the entry and exit of members of the Armed Forces by means of its means, then the Croatian Parliament will decide on that possibility and it will give us the authority of the national authority to be contacted by the federal commander, which will normally be the commander of the Croatian Air Force on a proposal that we will direct to the Croatian Parliament that he can, in this short time, and that is, in general, some 15 minutes that you have in such situations, but only when it comes to combat action that can be decided. Equally, countries bordering the Republic of Croatia have already made demands that we make international agreements with them so that our planes can prevent when it is necessary their border or that their borders can enter certain territory, as a rule it regulates how many kilometers in a country that we can conclude such an international contract and that all of this could be, that is precisely why we have accessed, the basic reason why we have approached the amendments to the Defence Act and the reason why it was an emergency procedure. I would particularly like to stress here that the proposal for a law regulates the way decisions are taken in the use of the Armed Forces, and I do not really stress that we are entering into space with the authority of the state authority prescribed by the current Law of Defence, because in today's debate there is doubt that with the changes we are introducing into the Law of Defence, we are taking away the powers of the Croatian Parliament itself, or the independent adoption of the functions of the President of the Republic, which was in no way intention but merely technical preparation. It means that the Ministry of Defence, together with the Chief Staff, is preparing a proposal for an order to be made by the President of the Republic after this esteemed House or the Croatian Parliament has decided that members of the Armed Forces should be directed to a particular peacekeeping mission, depending on the decision the Assembly will make, on the number of members and the duration. Furthermore, the Defence Act has been laid down to regulate and use the Armed Forces in situations requiring combat action against aircraft, it has been redefined in a way that we wanted to be more precise because there was a question since we did not enter the name of a civilian aircraft, we have consulted with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure which on 31 March of this year gave the opinion that they were in agreement with our position regarding the application of the provisions of Article 57, since Articles 103 to 117 use the term military aircraft, hence the explicits of the military aircraft, and in situations where the concept of aircraft itself is used, this implies a civilian aircraft, however, because of the clarity of the permanent text that this would not be questioned is the word civil aircraft. The proposed law stipulates that persons who are employed by rights and obligations under employment during the exercise of the right to defend themselves are governed by the Labour Act, since that law is detailed in detail, Article 224. The labour law. In the existing provisions of the law, the implications are contained tasks relating to planning, i.e. defence planning at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, the Defence Planning Act is recognised as one of the key functions of the Ministry of Defence. However, this function was not recognised in other provisions of the law, and therefore the law explicitly established the obligation to regulate the area of planning by means of a sublegal act to be the defence minister's rule. In view of the importance and complexity of the area of planning, the Ministry of Defence shall have two types of planning, one that is in line with the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the other with regard to defence planning itself through short- and long-term plans, including the long-term development plan, and in relation to the plans of allies, i.e. NATO alliances of which we are as a Member State. This Law also stipulates that military locations and buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia and managed and available by the Ministry of Defence are free of payment of municipal compensation. This is why we have prescribed this because the Law on Management and Property owned by the Republic of Croatia has already prescribed such a release, but since the law did not provide for a transitional and final provision in what time period the units of local self-government are obliged to adapt their solutions to the obligation to pay the municipal compensation to the Ministry of Defence. Unfortunately, we have had a different situation now, and that is that some local self-governments have done so and units of the regional self-government themselves have abolished such solutions. For example, Zadar, Karlovac and these days Daruvar, while other units of local self-government did not do so, and we simply did not have the conditions to renew the proceedings in these situations. That is why, in the transitional and final provision, we have prescribed that within 30 days of the adoption of this law, they are obliged to adapt. The next thing that was important to us to supplement after 3 years of application of the Defence Act, it is a military policy as a regular authority, which, in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure, prescribes certain military police powers, and this law proposes a certain harmonisation as well as in the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. It is therefore prescribed that the Civil Oversight Council is subject to the application of certain powers established by the Law on Police Affairs and that we can monitor the completion of criminal research during which those powers are applied. The Council would primarily be empowered to control two measures taken by the Military Police, which is to verify the establishment of communication contacts and hidden military police activities. This novel also proposes certain harmonisations relating to defence preparations holders, so the right and the obligation to train for the purposes of defence for civil bearers of defence preparations is abolished for the reason that in 2013, we have entered this undertaking too ambitiously and that we now intend to train the reserve composition in number and size as defined by the decision on the size, composition and mobilization of the Armed Forces. As far as the Service Act is concerned, since I will speak unitedly in it, the Service Act, the emergency procedure has been introduced and we have approached it for reasons that as you know it is in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to set up special study programmes at the Croatian Military School for the needs of the Armed Forces. These are the management and management of military engineering, and to enable these programmes to develop individuals who will accept scientific and professional titles, so that we can develop through scientific activity it is important that this law enters into force until the beginning of the next school year, since the Ministry of Science has granted us 12 jobs and it would be a real shame for young people who can be admitted not to develop through scientific titles, since the Service Act recognises only two categories of working relationships, which are active military persons and officials and employees. With this change, we will have the possibility of a third category of employees, and these are employees of public services who will be able to be paid on this basis as well as in education. Furthermore, the Service Act changed that the first military contract could last four years instead of the last three years. The reason for this is that through three military service contracts, and they are 4, 5 and 6 years old, a professional soldier can reach the meaning of 15 years of service and when he is added to this by his unfettered service, which for members of the Guard brigades for 12 months counts for 18 months so that he can reach that border that was prescribed by the Law on the Retirement of Active Military Persons, which is a minimum of 20 years of insurance internship. It is also prescribed by law that a soldier may, during the last year of the third contract, be transferred with personal consent to another State body if he fulfils the conditions in accordance with the specific regulation. So it won't be a rule, it'll be an exception if a government body asks for means according to the skills and abilities our soldier has, which are primarily either police or the judicial police, if he has a need for them since they've passed the invitation to join the state service. No matter what the contract service is here, there is a possibility that they will be deployed with their consent to that other body of state administration. The law also lays down military specialists as a special category of staff, provided that military specialists can continue to be deployed to the construction sites of military specialists according to the books of the formation, and from the ranks of now active military personnel and officials and subsistence officers who are working in the Armed Forces, but if the specific specific skills and abilities we need for the category of military specialists are not available, that we are able to fill those jobs from the labour market. After training, it shall be carried out according to the proposal for a programme adopted by the Chief of Staff, and upon completion of the training, such a person shall be admitted to the military service, an act shall be assigned to the constituency of a military specialist or lieutenant, Lieutenant Corvette, military specialist, depending on whether it is an officer or an officer and shall be assigned to a place of training that may be filled with military specialists. Also, in military education in the section relating to the age of education, we changed for a few years because we realized that those years were relatively high and we also introduced that the officers of the service and the profession were generally referred to the first and second levels of... officer's education. All means others who wish to develop beyond the rank of colonels depending on the needs of the Armed Forces will go to command-command school, or war school. What provides for categories of members of the Armed Forces and civil servants and subsistence officers working in places with special working conditions by law is the possibility for the defence minister to determine the jobs of civil servants and subsistence officers in the Armed Forces where, due to the specific working conditions, the weight and nature of the job and the liability of the basic salary can be increased to 20%. There has also been a big debate about the changes we have introduced in the area of military discipline, and it is about that we have introduced, so a military-stricken court one whose positioning will now be in the Ministry of Defence. So far, the Department of Defense has had two military-stricken courts. For your information, these are not courts full of jurisdiction and do not belong to the category of regular courts. They are called military-stricken courts, because they belong to the category of disciplinary courts where they are decided on a military path in the Armed Forces. Because of the small amount of cases we had last year, because of the ineffectiveness of their functioning, we decided that the military-stricken court in the future would be one. He's going to be the formational unit of the Department of Defense. Such a solution has existed in the Ministry of Defence since 1900 today I checked in 1996 or the seventh year and was in effect until 2007. The military court would judge a council of three war-torn judges when tried by the generals would be tried by a council of five war-torn judges of which three would be professionally acting, and at least one of those five would have to have a personal rank of generals at the time. The Presidents and Judges of the Military Court and the Legal Officer shall appoint and resolve the President of the Republic on the proposal of the Minister, with the opinion of the Chief of Staff and against the resolution of the military-supervised court. An appeal would not be allowed, but an administrative dispute could be brought before the competent administrative court, and a decision by the court on the appeal is decided by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. In today's debate, the thesis emerged that the provision violated the right, the constitutional right to guarantee each individual act the right to appeal. Those who have said so have only forgotten to read the second, means the second paragraph of that constitutional provision, and he says the right to appeal can be excluded if legal protection is secured by other means, and in this case it is secured through a two-stage administrative trial. The proposed law also contains transitional provisions laying down categories of officers and officers which may be referred to military training by 31 December 2015 or promoted to a higher rank by 31 December 2016. So it's about people who are at one point due to the adoption of the Law on Defence in 2013, we say it's colloquial incursion in the well and it wasn't possible for them, so promoting this injustice under quotes we're trying to correct these transitional provisions. And equally for those who were soldiers, professional soldiers indefinitely introduce the possibility of staying in service until they turn 20 to an effective internship so they can go into retirement. Here's what this would be, gentlemen, to amend and supplement both of the laws that lie ahead of you. And I'm standing at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112812	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112813	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, on several occasions you said that the reasons for the adoption of these emergency procedures are because NATO has warned Croatia several times about the transfer of powers to air traffic and the entry of individual aircraft into the airspace without being identified. I further think it is very irresponsible and irresponsible that NATO must warn the Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Croatia several times to complete its task. That's why I don't see any reason for this law to be entered in an emergency procedure like this. In any case, he was to go into the regular procedure and he should have been prepared and discussed in this congregation long ago. This is how we Parliamentarians get into a very awkward situation to discuss a very serious issue, which is the defence of this country in an emergency procedure for something that was not necessary at all. Malten as if it were a state of war. So I think that this should be a way for us all to learn that such things can no longer happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112814	Vishnya Tafra, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112815	Your Honorable parliamentary representative, I can accept your criticism which is so directed. However, this does not mean that Croatia did not have, meaning the transfer of powers. We just received a request that the transfer of powers we are obliged to do be complemented in a way that we could not supplement, and we could not supplement them because the Defence Act did not provide for the possibility of concluding interstate agreements with other countries. And that's one of the reasons why we did it now. So let me explain, this matter, whatever it may seem to you, is defined only in two articles of this law. It's extremely complicated, and we've had a lot of consultation with both our allies and our partner countries reading means they've been resolved. Your solutions are different from the state to the state and from the moment we were signaled, and that was the second month of this year. It's not that long a period. So that was February of this year and now we're in the sixth month. In these four months we think that we have prepared a quality proposal that primarily means in accordance with the Croatian Constitution, which is most important because the Croatian Constitution dictates the entry and exit of members of the Armed Forces and funds from the country. And we must stick to constitutional provisions. And equally, compared to these constitutional provisions that I can call restrictive in relation to how the defense develops, and we have the Constitution that we have, we have tried to find the best solution and I think that we have succeeded and that 4 months are not such a big period. I couldn't agree with you if the defenses in that area were unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112816	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112817	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputys, you're saying that the first-degree military court in the Armed Forces and the senior military court at the Ministry of Defense are being suspended and a military court is being set up at the Ministry of Defense which is responding, which is what you forgot to say, the minister and oversees his work. Judges shall be appointed by the President or the President, with the opinion of the Chief of Staff. The Responsibilities Regulation is no longer a general rule of conduct adopted by the President on the proposal of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, with the consent of the Defence Minister, rather than by the ordinary Defence Minister. The right to appeal shall be abolished for a decision on the strict responsibility for a major offense, a serious violation of the military discipline. The parties may initiate an administrative dispute, and the lawsuits shall not retain the execution of the solution. Article 18 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be guaranteed the right to appeal against individual legal acts adopted in the procedure of the first instance before a court or another authorised body, point. The second paragraph or paragraph 2, the right to appeal may be exceptionally excluded in cases of a certain law if other legal protection is provided. Legal protection by litigation when the solution became legally played on the willow. You'd better have brought in a court of law like you know how to do than you've made such a mess of a military trial and transferred all your powers to the minister. And I said today on the board, and today I will repeat in the Croatian Parliament this is a pure politicisation of the Armed Forces and the placing of a political body under the minister of what is the duty of Chief of Staff and President or President as Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112818	Vishnya Tafra, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112819	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, but we've already had this debate today, so here's what I'm going to say again today, and I'm going to add a few more facts. So from 1996 to 2007, military courts were the establishmental units of the Ministry of Defence. So during the government that we can say here that now it doesn't rule to be equally precise, so then they were two-degree. I explained to you today the reasons that led us to no longer have a two-stage trial. One of the reasons is that during 2014, the Military Court received 22 complaints against the High Military Court, and in 2014, there were 12 claims against the solution of the High Military Court, which were rejected by the decisions of the administrative courts. When you look at what that means, it means 17 debates per military judge in one calendar year. Do you really think that someone for a 17 debate should receive a decent salary from both the brigade and the colonel and have so many employees in that segment? You will now answer to me that we could have done a rationalization. You can't do a rationalization because three military judges must be tried in court. Therefore, rationalisation in that part is out of the question. And I am telling you once again that the recommendation of these days has been called by the Government to all the ministries and said that it is a recommendation from the European Commission to abolish the rule applicable to the Republic of Croatia, which is not valid in other EU countries, which is that complaints about procedures being conducted in a particular ministry in those same ministries in the second degree are decided by the same body because it becomes immaterial. It is groundless precisely because, as a rule, such decisions are not changed by appeal That is why it is set up, so the administrative trial has given Croatia at the request of the European Commission in 2 degrees. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112820	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Left-handed Club, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112821	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister. Well, I have to admit, this is very nice to me when you're so quick to defend your attitudes and you're putting yourself in a way that's the only truth that I'm saying and the Maltens where you get the right to doubt. And for starters, this isn't a draft bill, this is a bill. Look at yourself in the debate, you've repeated this bill several times. This isn't a draft proposal, this is a bill. On the other hand, you said the reason for the urgency of the procedure. NATO has warned us twice. That's more reason for me to doubt the accuracy of those allegations because I usually know that when someone tells us something on the outside that we do it promptly. And I don't think this is necessarily why the law goes according to emergency procedures. Moreover, I believe that Article 23 of this Law relating to Article 21 of the Law, paragraph 3, is new for military locations and buildings referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and the Ministry of Defence has been released from payment of municipal compensation. And that's actually the main reason why this is going into emergency procedure. Well, now I'm probably going to be bad for you, so I'm going to say that it's probably those funds, or those finances, that they're probably meant to hold a military parade. Well, now that we're giving ourselves freedom, why don't I have the freedom to think? Isn't that how units of local self-government practically finance this military parade, though indirectly? Just to remind you, the government was still warned at the end of last year, especially financial experts on this side warned that it was behind the guidelines of fiscal and economic policy delivered to local self-government units due to budgeting. The same part of the budget is funded by the social, health, education and everything else that should now be struck by that logic. Also, Article 56a of what you mentioned in your debate on the protection of airspace, I suppose that, although I didn't understand it that way, but I guess there was a debate on the board whether it was in any way entering into that story that we were going to make some kind of contract and be given to someone else, but okay, I wasn't on that board or I was a member of that committee, but by reading this text, I have to admit that I also had a thought about it first. Well, since you categorically claim it's not me, I hope we'll finally make sure that you are, that what you're saying is true and that my doubts are unfounded. As far as this second law is concerned, I am simply taking this opportunity to welcome this decision on the change of contract from 3 to 4 years. After all, you're right last week if I'm not mistaken, or before we discussed it, and that's when you suggested this possibility. Now you've explained and why it's exactly 4, now whether some kind of analysis has been done, so if only this part of the pension, or the job, if that's what you've been handling, then that's bad for me. In any case, a better-quality solution than what it was. But if it's optimal how it's even calculated that this 4 years is a good solution, which is why it wouldn't be 5, 5, 6 regardless of what's going on over that 20-year term that you've been talking about, but given the frame we're talking about, maybe that would be a far better solution. And now what I do, for the very end, is what fell into my eyes of article 38 of the Law relating to Article 147 of the Law, organized or contracted inter-urban transport, excludes the right to compensation for housing. Now I'm asking, let's say I don't understand it, or I'm looking for an explanation. Thank you very much. You know what this is about. I ask for those personnel who are resident somewhere, does that mean that they do not exercise the right to transport once a week, or monthly, or twice a month, what is their right to do about it? But what I'm asking is, if we're going to make such a decision here to say these people don't have that right, then the easiest way to do it is to fuck other people's rights. Since we have the same right as the MPs, we're doing it. Now the question is whether it's moral on our part to say that we have this right and we attribute it to ourselves, we voted for it, but let's say also these people to whom this law applies don't have the same possibility. Normally in far more humble frames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112822	Tomislav Ivić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112823	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Novak, I can agree with you in part when you talk about the communal fee and this legal provision that will interfere with the fact that future units of local self-government are charging a communal fee for military facilities. I do not know whether the costs of the parade in Zagreb will be covered from this, but the fact is that this is another example of how the cost of rationalisation and savings in the state administration and at the state level is carried out on the burden of units of local self-government. There have been examples of oho, ho and that units of local administration do not ask about it, and in particular no one offers them another source of income from which to compensate what the state rules so, units of local self-government lose. That's not good, that's not even me thinking in the spirit of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And we come slowly to the situation that a good part of the units of local self-government comes into a difficult financial situation because of not their decisions and not their business but because of the decisions of the Croatian Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112824	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112825	Thank you very much. Well, we absolutely agree on the fact that abolishing the communal fee is a big problem, and in the end, it's not the first blow to local self-government units. And when I mentioned financing the military parade, I deliberately said that I had given myself freedom of expression because I know anyway that any debate that was eventually seen through the incursions on our part or on my part will be characterized as badness or at least badness, if not something more harsh. But the fact is that from these means, the local self - administration is primarily to social, health, and schooling. Now for those abolished funds that have been abolished by them, how they can now replace it. Well, we have the examples we heard last week, units of local self-government that I don't say swim in money, and that's how it's presented, but there are also those that aren't exactly in that situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112826	A colleague, Damir Cain, is not present, so the club of independent representatives loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the New Wave DC Club and National Party Reformist counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112827	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Two draft laws ahead of us on behalf of the New Wave DC Club and the People's Party of Reformists I'll say some of our thoughts. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence with the final proposal, what is cited as the reason for the emergency procedure for us is a legitimate reason for the urgent procedure, the only question remains why such a serious warning to such a serious institution as the NATO Alliance has ignored so far. Defence of the state, compatibility in this defence system is a multinationally very serious category, and when a NATO warning comes to you, it should be treated seriously. I think in that system we're dealing with some very, very serious tasks, such as joint action in Afghanistan. Under this system and its characteristics and capabilities of the joint defence, we are also relying on defence planning, so today we have a very reduced number and cost in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, especially as it is something that Croatia is definitely losing its breath to carry out tasks on its own, such as air space surveillance in a specific case, so I'm surprised that we were waiting to put this into an emergency procedure. That I was a responsible person at the first warning was already on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. But let's put that aside. We could talk here because the terms pro-tourket defense, anti-aircraft defense, the protection of airspace from a hunting couple, so we could actually comment on those terms in our case. The missile defense as such in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia does not exist, objectively there is neither anti-aircraft except for the anti-aircraft defense of the troops following the military forces, the PZ from the territory is not available. Why is it that from the 20 years after the end of the war, everyone should ask themselves all the defence ministers who were in the service, at least today, which I personally consider to be a very good defence minister. Maybe the best we've had since the Homeland War. A hunting couple is something that's nice to hear but we're a little bit better at it causing such a subtle smile if it can be called a hunting couple. In any case, this part of this bill, which, according to NATO's instructions, provides the possibility of transferring powers and resolving formal issues related to this type of international cooperation, is not a question for us and we will therefore support this law. What is questionable is what my colleagues mentioned earlier, and even today during the committee as a visiting member of the Defence Committee, I tried to point out, not to mention the sequence of your explanation, it became clear to me only this law and the relationship between the MRLs as specific to the unit of local self-government, it concerns a very bad relationship generally with the central government or national government towards the units of local self-government in which there is no understanding of what is real on the ground when it comes to the management of state property and the impact of this process on life and financial conditions in local self-government units. To make it simple, you made this bill to install a provision that no longer charges the municipal fee for military facilities. You're justifying this de facto by the need to cut costs, unnecessary costs in the MORH, you rely formally on the fact that a law has been passed under which no municipal compensation is paid for the state property and this has been passed in this House. Maybe even I voted in favour of it, not being directed enough so I don't wash my hands of responsibility, but the fact is that this state property doesn't always rule in the interest of local self-government units is not in a hurry. What worries the state is that one Pula is surrounded by current and ex-warrants that stare empty, fail and often in maintaining the elemental, civilizational level of urban arrangement of the local self-government unit must pay out of their budget for the transportation of garbage, deratization, various things because no one takes care of it. There's no guard, there's nothing. What's the state's concern is what a Sibenik surrounded by former military forces so when a fence falls from the Vojarna Bribirski princes on the road then I, as the mayor, have to call the company to write her an order and remove the fence that fell on the tourist unclassified road on the Sibenik-Solaris route. Because we're acting in this House as if the units of local self-government are some imaginary category because I guess they're not, they're exterioral when you're reading some of the laws that we've brought into this House. Does anyone think about what it looks like to be unclassified when they pass a swan with a tank M-84 that has 42 tons without a battle kit? One piece of information for those who don't know. How many more roads do you think these roads are going down? And how will the Slunj municipality solve this problem? As an unclassified road falls towards Rabbit when the swan passes and when it carries the RBS-15 mobile system to a firing position which is also a heavy truck and four launchers and everything else, you probably know it much better than most MPs. Or when pulling VBRs or pulling cannons 130 mm M-46 with a combat kit, etc.,... Roads collapse, asphalt collapse, and these are in principle small, financially weak municipalities that do not have enough resources to normally maintain public infrastructure for their citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'Cause, of course, the big cities got rid of the army. See where they are today, most importantly military, see where the main effects of the Navy's ground army artillery are located. In Split, though, the navy is what we have. Well, it also takes up space that's interesting. How much military facilities affect the quality of life in these units, and now what has brought them income so that they can function elementally, it is taken away from them. And let's just say we're not ready to get into some other categories. Moreh spends oil, spends it on ships, spends it on trucks, spends it on tanks, and no one has ever wondered how logical it is to pay at the price of any citizen or economicist or tourist when he comes to a gas station to pour oil into his jeep, into his truck or in his yacht. So MORH is paying in his country today, within the price of oil excise duties, which is defined as a luxury tax. So I'm asking you now what's there to do as a link between defense and luxury, so pay the toll as a fee for using the road network, it's paid even when oil is poured into warships that of course don't sail on the roads. I've never seen a ship sail on the road before in my life. So he pays the highway development fee, so he pays the VAT eventually. So let's start systematically solving things because this is the only way I'm making one law to another, we're not solving anything, we're leading to absurdity. The military pays us taxes on luxury, the military pays us taxes on added value. And this same army is thus getting away from the need to pay for what should be paid to the local self-government unit because it is absolutely natural and logical. We can't agree on that. I mean, guys, let's start taking politics seriously. Because politics is discipline and the ability to decide, to make quality decisions. This is not a quality decision even if it was a reference to some of the laws that we have made in this term before this. We were wrong. Let's come one time, finally get to the ability to admit we made a mistake and make a mistake again. As far as the amendments and additions to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, it is perfectly logical to introduce and regulate the issue of military specialists, because today the need for personnel in the Armed Forces is something that imposes the need of military specialists, because in the context of classical military education, people who would be so multidisciplinary are no longer able to be educated, so directed to some particular point that it is normal for most of the staff to be educated under such a model and thus enter the service in the Armed Forces. We also welcome this extension from 3 to 4 years and in that part, so this second law does not have any significant remarks. I mean, as a club, we will support these laws because of the need to align what you have stated as a reason for urgency with the demands of our partners and allies and to order the formal legal relations of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of the NATO institutions with the partner countries and with the command. But this story with a communal contribution, this is ladies and gentlemen proof of how much politics in Croatia is inextricably unserious and sloppy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112828	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112829	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here is when Mr. Representative spoke about, in fact, the provisions of the Law in defence and regarding the abolition of the municipal fee, so I can absolutely agree with you in part and I myself was the head of the unit of local self-government and I can assume what it means now especially for some smaller municipalities and cities to abolish that provision, it is certainly about significant financial resources. But on the other hand, it seems to me that we have failed to discuss these provisions in the context of the proposed amendment of the proposed law. The more the provision was adopted in July 2013 through the Law on State Property Management. And I'm just surprised that almost all clubs praised the work of the Ministry of Defence through that regular State of Defence report in the Republic of Croatia that then someone didn't notice that here they might not have come out with such an additional proposal because this also means saving for the Ministry of Defence. I agree that this debate, let's open this debate here's my MPs, maybe there's some other quality solutions, now I mean the income from the communal fee. But I think this provision is necessary, with some units of local self-government consummating it, others not, so they go with it. Now it's going to be even. And I repeat, there may be other solutions, but there should be a broader debate about it, and why not here within the club of representatives in our House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112830	Time. Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112831	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that we should conduct a debate and that we may have to return to the provisions of the law that was passed in 2013 because it will not only tang this particular case when it comes to the MORH but will open some other wounds. Taking away the right of units of local self-government to equally, without discrimination under certain standard criteria is a matter of which we undermine the financial stability of local self-government units, especially since we have also cut wings by some other laws in other categories... and we have left them the same, almost the same, and even bigger tasks that they must carry out according to their citizens. As regards the report on the situation in the Armed Forces and the position towards this ministry, i.e. In view of this minister, I said during this debate and I stand behind it, Ante Kotromanovic is the best defence minister we have since the Homeland War to date, without competition. No competition. That's my personal attitude. There's nothing else I can add to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112832	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112833	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will also support the proposal to amend the Defence Act and the Armed Forces Service Act. What I was discussing on the last report for 2014, the report on the state of the Armed Forces and what I pointed out on behalf of the HNS Club, obviously and this law is particularly involved, which I see and all clubs have praised, which is an additional education, even more quality, much stronger, much stronger to say so the possibility of specialisation, the way to educate, the degree of cadets as a military person, the civilian in the Armed Forces. What is very important, there should also be pointed out that the Croatian Military School Petar Zrinski is becoming more and more a centre of knowledge related to military skills, as well as a centre for the creation and exchange of scientific knowledge from all areas of defence and security. This is what is absolutely essential and most important because surely with all the weapons this world would say, the knowledge and technology that is essentially resting on knowledge is crucial for the defence security of our country, but of course the NATO Pact. With this law, the Defence Act, we further strengthen our position within NATO alliances, we get our even greater responsibility, regardless of what certain powers we transfer to the Chief Commander, but in fact our military forces in this case are air and missile air systems, they get their position and even greater responsibility and, of course, responsibility and the Ministry, and tomorrow, the Croatian Parliament in making decisions and strengthening these forces to be truly at the level needed, a high level to satisfy it. And that in translation again means further strengthening of the Croatian Armed Forces, which is where we are essentially all agreed every time we discuss whether or not the amendments and amendments to the laws or the reports, we are looking for, we want our Armed Forces to be as high-quality and equipped as possible. But once again, I stress, the fact that the introduction of an even better and better quality education structure and integration of military education with civil education is something that is crucial in this country, and I believe that what is expected very quickly, and that within the NATO Pact, our Croatian Military School is also the segment that will be for other military workers within the NATO Pact, that we will be able to offer quality and specific knowledge and that is what is best and the best quality that we can always present. Of course, when discussing the Law of Defence has already been debated quite naturally and we, of course, support as I said in the introduction the fact and new powers that we give to the commander of the NATO Pact and our participation in the common defence. Surely it is also important to define Article 27, which basically defines civilian control over the actions of the Military Police. It is one of the decisions of this law that makes Croatia a civilised state, fully integrated in the Western European civilization circle. All today's countries of that circle are founded on democracy that sets strong control mechanisms so-called. Repressive appliances in the state, the military and the police and sometimes seem understandable in themselves, but it is extremely important and constantly reminding, stressing and insisting on this civilian surveillance. In addition to the rationalisation discussed by the deputy, when we talk about a military tight court or only one-degree court, it is also extremely important that the second-degree one, if we can say so, and although it is the power of any verdict, but it can go to the Administrative Court, which brings us back to the civil surveillance sphere, or second-degree civilian part. The debate was enough and will likely continue to be related to the situation of the release of the payment of the municipal fee. Surely local self-government units won't like it in quotes, they'll cut down on certain revenues. However, it is quite logical and clear that paying the municipal fee by the Ministry of Defence, or military facilities, does not make any sense, because it really is specific objects, specific activities. It's absolutely not economic activity, and it's actually never really supposed to be in there. That's the second thing that we have to do right now. It's another thing that colleagues have mentioned is some other tax or imposes paid by the military, which I believe will also be abolished because it's absurd. But that doesn't mean that we don't start now that we're changing this law and we're making sure that these funds don't spill from A to B, basically citizens' resources, whether into the state budget or afterwards into communal compensation, but essentially into cities, but actually put things in a real way. Surely when we talk about not only cities and municipalities' incomes, but when we talk about what these funds were used for, access roads that were discussed and all other infrastructures needed to operate for the municipalities, and which are related to military facilities, is something that is expected to be discussed by the Ministry of Defence, that, together with cities, is particularly agreed, and does not mean that the Ministry of Defence I believe will not be prepared in certain situations and certain circumstances to support and address if there are certain problems or if there is, of course, certain damage that arises, which is always regulated. Talks and arrangements and common interest for roads to be good for both the military and the civilians, and every problem needs to be sat down and discussed. I don't see that on that point there will be more significant problems, because I say communal compensation really should never have been part of what military facilities should be paid for, or the Ministry of Defence. On behalf of the HNS Club, I support both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112834	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112835	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. Well, I listened well to your debate when you spoke about the Defense Report last year. Yes and then you put a special emphasis and commendation on education and studies in the framework of military school. And that is exactly the reason, I hope that you will share that view, too, that here is because of the urgency of passing this law when we talk about the service in the Armed Forces, the second article in this proposal, and I do not know Article 14 of the Defence Law proposal. I think that's enough of the reasons that she said in her eloquent way and the deputy lady to calm her conscience and accept it. I'm also glad that you looked back and here and offered in some way and in your debate and consistent solutions when we're talking exactly about, so we can say that by losing the units of local self-government related to the communal compensation because there are certain solutions to that. Surely what Mr. Baranovic was saying, of course, that swan does not go through with that heavy tank, does not just pass through an area where military facilities or polygons are, that it is also moving along other roads. But that certainly the greatest damage, the damage, or now the loss of these funds, will be felt by those units of local self-government. And it certainly doesn't stand for what it is because of the lack of those funds right now. Of course he won't tolerate social and health care. What Mr. Novak was saying, but we couldn't answer him because it was in response to the replica, because it anyway from the funds from the communal fee that were strictly intended doesn't go into that portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112836	Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112837	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. A respected colleague, yes, education and education and an emergency procedure only to go for the purpose that in the new school year, the university could essentially implement this law that is extremely important for young people who are willing to enter military education, but also for civil education. It's something that's certainly one of the better laws that we're passing by an emergency procedure that reflects directly on citizens. Here I will also remind you that in 2014 the Croatian Military School for the first time started with two university study programs military engineering and military leadership and management. So, such programmes, such cooperation with the university, and I believe all the reforms that the Ministry of Defence has really started, but I am stressing again, and I will point out a hundred times in education, education because it is basically strength and Croatia and, of course, tomorrow the Croatian Army is something that will ensure that I believe the very, very fast possibility that our universities and military universities will be part of an integrated NATO education. And that moment I believe that we won't wait long, that we can say this toast because then we will show that we are really in the right way and that our defence forces are working in the right way, and that this ministry has really prepared quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112838	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112839	Thank you, Vice-President, dear deputy minister, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The Act on Defence was voted on 1 February 2013 almost unanimously. After the first reading with 121 votes to, 3 against and 1 abstention and finally after the second reading after the unanimous adoption of the board with 8 votes in favour, with 99 votes to, 0 votes against and 4 abstentions in this assembly 2.5 years ago without votes against. After that 2.5 years of law enforcement, which is nothing new or unusual, the law needs to be completed in some segments. Because the Croatian defence system must maintain the features of order and transparency. When editing the system, the question arises whether there was really a need for an emergency procedure to make these changes and additions? The reasons for the passing of this law are justified by an emergency procedure. It is an effective functioning in NATO membership conditions and in line with the obligations arising from that membership. And it is clear that it is the greatest and sufficient reason for intervention in the law. By joining NATO, Croatia joined NATO's integrated anti-aircraft defence system. In this system, the overall airspace of all NATO members is unique and national borders in the process of protecting the area play a very small role. It was worth more to regulate the surveillance and protection of airspace and possible action in that space in the system of allies. For the purposes of this The Defence Act is only prescribed that the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces may transfer the authority of operational and tactical command and control over troops and members of the Armed Forces in peace support operations, crisis response operations and humanitarian operations, with the prior consent of the defence minister. It was found that, for all these reasons, it was also necessary to regulate an area relating to airspace surveillance and protection, or to transfer the powers of operational and tactical command and supervision within the common anti-aircraft and pro-tourquet defence systems. Therefore, it is added to the proposed amendments that the Republic of Croatia may assign part of the Airspace Control and Protection Armed Forces to competent commands within the common anti-aircraft and pro-tourque defence systems of international organisations to which it has joined on the basis of international contracts. The emergency procedure is at least as urgent, or as fast as the fast planes are not only hypothetically but also real. What exactly does this look like, or what did it look like on January 28, 2015? In Croatia, air navigation control at Dance, an operator saw on the radar an unknown aircraft coming from BiH towards our border. Turkey's smaller business aircraft has signed up for flight control in Belgrade and has not checked out but lost contact with flight control in Zagreb. Our operator tried to make contact with the plane but it didn't work. When he entered the Croatian airspace near Udbina's flight control, he immediately informed the Operational Centre of the Croatian Air Force and the anti-aircraft defences that contacted the NATO Command. Now, whether it's a drama or not, you can judge it yourself. We're a unique NATO space, and their assessment was to wait. They told us to follow the plane onto the radar and be ready. The MiGs were on alert. The flight over our space lasted only 17 minutes, and our air force was on its feet. We would have caught them but would have been on their tails, so they decided to intervene, or to intercept the Italians. Finally, above the northern Adriatic at the altitude of Umag in the cross-border sea zone between Italy and Croatia, he was met by two Italian interceptors. After intercepting and checking, the Italians allowed the plane to continue its journey to its destination in Geneva. That's exactly the situation we're trying to legalize today. In addition to those amendments, they prescribe that persons who are employed are subject to the right and obligations of employment during the performance of their duties and rights in defence are governed by the Labour Act, which is clear and acceptable. And the next change is the alignment with international agreements, or the adjustment to NATO. Thus, defence planning, along with budgetary planning, is introduced and the dimension of NATO planning, as part of international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined. A supplement on the non-payment of municipal compensation for military locations and buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia and managed and available by the Ministry of Defence is also a alignment with the already existing Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia which frees the state from payment of municipal compensation for buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the crisis, the priorities are clear, the defence is important, and the Armed Forces in developed democracy such as Croatia belong to a prominent position and reputation. Thus, the proposed amendments and additions to today's law are only a logical continuation of defence reform. Following the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, numerous sublaws, adopted a new long-term defence plan for the period 2015 to 2024 defining the frameworks and guidelines for the development of defence capabilities in the next 10-year period, a draft proposal for a defence plan for which adoption is foreseen this year, implementation of NATO's objectives and capabilities, a step-by-step improvement of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why the SDP Club accepts the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. And what the military call and service in the Armed Forces know was that everyone was interested in defence issues. It is also known that the military call and service are changing and that the existing law is necessary to upgrade and supplement. Military studies, military engineering and military leadership and management are a brand-new undergraduate university study aimed at training future officers of the Armed Forces. They were developed in cooperation with the Armed Forces and with universities in Zagreb, and their attractiveness is that the prime ministers are waiting for a secure job in the Armed Forces units in the places of proper officer duties after the end of this study. This proposal amends and complements new studies with the Armed Forces Service Act by introducing a third category of public service employees, or services. It would just look back at military specialists who are a special category of staff, places of military specialists according to this proposal are filled from three different sources of military personnel, from the ranks of civil servants and tenants, but if it is not possible in any of these ways then from the labour market and thus will not remain unfulfilled. The armed forces are characterised by the preservation of professionalism, categorically defined internal relations and authoritarian structure to protect the sovereignty of the state. The proposal for this law has no basis in politics but in support of reforms and the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through the organisation of education and employment in the Armed Forces. Of course, the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP also accepts the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112840	Tomislav Ivić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112841	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Spoljar, in your debate, you pointed out that most of the law is so in the area of defense, so reports in this home were adopted unanimously, and that is correct, and that is good. And I think that when it comes to such laws and reports, is such a situation in the Armed Forces that they should not be divided by party belongings because we all have the same interest in the Republic of Croatia as safe a country as possible in any way. And I'm saying it's good that it is, but you can't justify urgency in the procedure by joining the NATO alliance. So we didn't become a member of the NATO alliance yesterday. We became a NATO member six years ago and there was enough time to adapt all the regulations that needed to be adapted to NATO regulations. So that as an argument to justify the urgency of the procedure simply doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112842	Dear President of the Defence Committee, here I have to agree with you and once again underline this part of how we all agree that the defense is really an important thing for our country and that we are all behind the Law on Defence and the Law on the Armed Forces. However, what you said now I must stress that it is not a membership and in my debate it was seen that it is not a membership, in NATO the reason for the urgency of the proceedings, but very concrete and what the deputy minister said, and what I once again said was the very specific airspace of the Croatian state and the intervention in the Croatian airspace as part of international contracts. So it's not NATO membership, it's a very concrete intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112843	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112844	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Minister of Defence, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. One of the reasons is formal procedure and the other is content and concerns the proposed amendments to those laws. Both the law in the parliamentary procedure is referred to as an emergency procedure and there are no legitimate reasons for this. As a reasonable reason for the urgency of the procedure in the reasons of both draft proposals, the provisions of the law which need to be regulated in order to further support the development of the defence portfolio. It is clear that, in itself, it cannot justify the adoption of those laws by emergency procedure in the context of the provision of Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by mentioning the normative support for the development of the defence portfolio strategic tasks, not some extraordinary circumstance which could be justified by the need for urgency. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Defence, as an expert holder, has significantly shortened the draft law procedure by implementing only the final part of the process of assessing the impact of the rules relating to the public debate on final legal solutions. It should be noted that the ministry as an expert carrier did not respect the deadline for public debate either. Since the draft proposal has been published on the official page of 7 May and the duration of the debate is foreseen until the final 20th of May, resulting in only 13 days remaining for the public debate. In this regard, it cannot be avoided that both laws are premature and insufficiently prepared and have not been preceded by the necessary and appropriate breakdown, as well as by previous consultations, as warned by the Council on Defence and National Security of the President of the Republic in its letter of 20 May 2015. So, what's the rush? Why not law in two readings, first and second reading, why not debate in this House, why such urgency? Both laws came to the Croatian Parliament a few days ago and already here today we have a debate and, of course, it is the custom when these topics are in the late afternoons when the Assembly Hall is practically empty. It's not the first time, it's a rule I'd say when it comes to laws like this to be discussed in the late afternoon. Is the goal of going undetected in public or something else, I really don't know the answer but it's really symptomatic. Of course, in addition to this procedure, the content of the Defence Act is also controversial and questionable amendments to articles such as Articles 49, 51, 52, 53 and 54. The Defence Act, which has been given the power of the Minister of Defence to propose to the President of the Republic the adoption of orders on the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the President of the Republic could no longer take appropriate orders without a proposal from the defence minister. As regards the orders made by the President of the Republic under the Croatian Parliament's decisions, it would be unwarranted to make these decisions dependent on the Minister's proposals. In essence, the proposed amendments to those articles of the Defence Minister would be included in the chain of command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which would not be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and is therefore extremely unacceptable. Namely, the defence ministry and the minister as its leader do not have the authority to command the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Such authority shall neither have nor may it be in accordance with Article 6. Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration and neither pursuant to Article 14. Defense laws. Therefore, according to Article 12. The Defence Department Act as the central authority of the State Administration has planned, directing, co-ordination and control functions in defence, and provides conditions for the functioning and operation of the Armed Forces. On the other hand, as referred to in Article 7(3), The Defence Act shall be carried out by the Ministry of Defence for the purposes of the President of the Republic in connection with its powers in the field of defence, and the fundamental authority of the President of the Republic prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic shall be the authority of the Supreme Command to the Armed Forces of the Republic. Therefore, on the basis of all the pre-quoted legal provisions, it is apparent that including the defence minister or the defence ministry in the chain of command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or against the spirit and meaning of the power of the president of the Republic of Croatia as commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're against this bill of amendments to the law. It is also important to say that the bill has important and constructive proposals such as detailing the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in situations requiring combat action against aircraft, and in particular to regulate the use of an integrated Allied airspace surveillance system which will certainly improve the defence system of the Republic of Croatia and this is not disputed, and as such, we absolutely have nothing against. When it comes to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces next to the same statement of urgency that we absolutely do not support, we believe that there are many good things that are proposed in the amendments to the law. The colleagues previously pointed out as an extension, i.e., this first military contract from 3 to 4 years, regulation of military specialists status, transformation at the Military University and legal regulation, etc., but it is unacceptable for us to abolish the First-degree Military Stallion Court in the Armed Forces and the Higher Military Court at the Ministry of Defence, and the establishment of a Military Court at the Ministry of Defence that corresponds to the minister and the minister oversees his work. So when it comes to military discipline, jurisdiction has been completely taken away from the Chief of Staff, which we hold illogical and everything is placed under the control of the minister. Instead of the regulation on tight responsibility as it has been so far continues to be brought by the president of the Republic of Croatia, he becomes the authority of the minister or minister of law and there is only one degree of military court that remains under the control of the ministry. The court should remain uniformly tied to the armed forces because there it truly belongs organically and was founded because of the discipline of military personnel and the Armed Forces. That's why we think this should change when it comes to the military's strict judiciary. I understand what you deputies said was not a classic court, is it, that it's a disciplinary court, but we heard on the board today that there are different solutions in different countries, that it's somewhere in the ministry, that it's somewhere in the Armed Forces and in the Ministry as it was with us. And we think that would be a better solution than this proposed way. So for all this I have said, therefore also for procedural reasons because of the urgency of the procedure but also because of the substantive changes especially when it comes to the Law on the Defence of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, they will not support the above-mentioned drafts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112845	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112846	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Ivić, you have well claimed that here there are things relating to the defence minister as a political person who is now being placed in the armed forces chain, which is absolutely not foreseen anywhere. It is also clear that he, as a political person, is being put in place as the one who will lay down the rules on how military discipline will look, propose judges and oversee judges. So what is it, instead of politicizing the Armed Forces? We experienced this at another time when the President of the Republic abstained and made objections to certain Laws on Defence and Armed Forces, then the amended law, so the President of the Republic no longer needs to be asked to agree on certain laws. So in these segments that are being brought in late this afternoon, in the evening, which were carried out as they were without real public debate, without any suggestions, respect, it clearly raises the question whether it really wants the minister as a political person to manage the Armed Forces, whether it is a politicisation of a depolitical army. The question is indeed what is wanted to be done with this and whether for the second time these legal amendments to the President of the Republic are reducing his powers as the consent he had previously given.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112847	Reply to the replica, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112848	Thank you very much. In my debate, I have made it clear that it is very questionable from the constitutional position to put the President of the Republic before, or that he can make a decision, the order to use the Armed Forces without the minister's proposal. It's simply by my understanding from the position of the Constitution unsustainable. For the Constitution has made it clear who is commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and who commands the Armed Forces. In this way, as I was saying, the defence minister at the small door is involved in the chain of command and he and the Ministry of Defense. If there is a need for the President or President of the Republic to wait for the proposal of the Minister after the Croatian Parliament's decision, with the consent of the President or President of the Republic. So after the High House Parliament's decision, the President of the Republic must wait for a proposal from the Minister to make a decision on the use of the Armed Forces. So that is, I would say contrary to the spirit of constitutional provisions governing the position of the President of the Republic, especially when it comes to commanding the Armed Forces. And I'm afraid that after this law is passed, it will be the subject of serious debates whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112849	Thank you very much. Dear Borislav Kovacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112850	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here you are, Mr. President of the Committee, talking again about the unnecessary and urgent, urgent procedure for the adoption of these laws. I'm asking if you'd guess, here's to commenting on Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, did you assume the loss of the academic year due to the second reading of this law. You probably wouldn't, so that's enough reason. Now, I'm not going to be maligned and say whether or not we'd be more interested, and we're here for a second reading because this isn't an alibi because it's at 7:00 a.m. to discuss these important laws. Or also Article 14. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. When you spoke of military tight practice and expressed more, or your opposition, I remember what we heard today on the board from our respected professors' mouths, it is about different models and within the European Union, they spoke about approach, about four different approaches. And even moreover, this is one model that we're proposing here, and we're prejudging it, which is the more it's proven there is in some way that there are no constitutional objections. And I believe when you spoke in the end and about the good parts of one and the other law that we would agree together to be related to Article 1. I believe that you share the same opinion that this is certainly a good thing and a good solution embedded in these laws. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112851	Reply to the replica, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112852	My colleague Kovačić, it would not be a lost academic year. It could have been done in time, the amendments to both laws could have come much earlier than they came to the Croatian Parliament. The discussion could also be held in two readings at the same session, so why could there not be another reading until 15.7. If we received this bill on Friday at the Croatian Parliament, and we are already discussing today, why can't we discuss it in a second reading in three weeks? So it simply does not hold water as an excuse for urgency and it certainly is not a transformation of military school and the introduction of new programmes is not the reason for the urgency of the procedure. We absolutely support everything that's going on there at the military school and we were there maybe a month ago for a visit, a month or two days ago, and it's really good to see that significant shifts are being made. And we're not against it, and the Priors are against it, but we can't support something that's simply no excuse to work the way it's done and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112853	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the HDSSB representative's club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112854	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. I'll try to be brief and not actually repeat everything that's been said. Unfortunately, a few days ago, I praised the defense report and the work of this department's furniture on behalf of our club and supported their work. I must honestly admit that I am a little surprised by these amendments and by the addition of both laws, the way they came and the way this is happening together with them, and therefore I can't help but think that part of these changes actually or part of the influences they have put on the Armed Forces through these amendments may not come a little beyond the circles of the Ministry of Defence itself, i.e. the Minister and Deputy Minister and their associates. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law, I think the proposal supplementing the Law on Defence has actually been made by my colleague Ivić, in fact, made quite good arguments and problems that are being opened there. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a clear and additional establishment and the establishment of a defence minister here in the chain of those who give decisions or consent to operational or tactical command or control of the Armed Forces, I must admit that the objectives of this amendment of the Defence Act are rather dubious and unclear. So this part is clear when it comes to co-operation within the NATO Alliance, but this introduction of the defence minister is quite unclear what the objectives and reasons are, so if we're going to look at the current practice and way of commanding the system of the Armed Forces and ultimately I am the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Also when it comes to communal compensation and non-payment of municipal compensation to local self-government units, I asked the question and I will ask you once more why the Croatian Armed Forces are paying tolls on Croatian highways. So the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia pay all costs to the Republic of Croatia that exist, and now the first cost is now being incurred as the direct income of the local self-government units to be excluded from them. So we can't in all measures, we've had income tax changes, we can't ask for savings in all measures just at the level of local self-government units. So I would be in favour, but then let's go some set and see what else there really is that doesn't really make sense that the Croatian military pays or that it is being charged to make its budget easier, given that it has been reduced and rebalancing that it has been reduced. But why just at the expense of local self-government units? So I say on the one hand was to make it easier, but on the other hand it's a deficit in the incomes of local self-government units, and the military is not usually in local self-government units that have strong sources of income. These units of local self-government have somehow moved out of them before, and very often military facilities and military facilities are located on local self-government units in their local self-government unit area, which are relatively weak financially standing. When it comes to these amendments and additions to the Law on Defence of the HDSSB Club will not support and we are not sure that this way, this time and these solutions are good, that they are 100% consistent with the Croatian Constitution and we do not recognize them as being on the trail of the current measures and methods of working this furniture in the Ministry of Defence. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, there are many good measures, good shifts, good solutions. When it comes to this, the military court we in Croatia often changed practices, so we saw somewhere that there was some other practice, so we adopted it, so it didn't go, so we changed it again and we tended to do it rather than maintain some continuity. If one system was relatively solid, I don't see any reason to change it. If it didn't work properly then let's say and determine why it wasn't, where the problems were, and what we're doing is actually doing to remove these problems. And here it's not that it wasn't good or it wasn't functional or it was, but it's looking for a new model in some that now I'm not repeating everything that's been said. So I don't see the reason actually that this is how it's done, the clearest reason for a military-stricken court. While this other one is actually acceptable. Therefore, when it comes to amendments and additions to the HDSSB Service Act, it will be retained. And of course, the third thing that the predecessors actually repeated would still be the best, most fortunately that these two laws actually went through two readings and of course we heard a little more and the professional public and that we heard what they had to say about it and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112855	Thank you too, dear colleague. The Croatian Labourists, the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Zlatko Tušak are coming. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112856	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister. As I said in the replica itself in the beginning, I am a part disappointed and dissatisfied in the way that such an important law is given in an emergency procedure in this way. Because we had a 12.6. was included in the agenda of the parliamentary debate these two laws, the Law of Defence and the Law of the Armed Forces, so that there was a 17th debate. The 19th we will have a likely vote and we have a week's period of adoption of two very important laws on which it should be discussed and reasoned to see and assess whether any particular problems within the laws that are indicated and may be corrected or possibly seek any other solutions. I think of such an important law in 7 days from the entry into the agenda of the individual Parliament, to the conclusion that it is not a practice in any country in the EU except Croatia. And in no case can we be honored especially if it is such laws as the Law of Defence or the Law of the Armed Forces. I don't think it would even occur to some parliaments to pass such laws within such a short period of time. And only because of that, that some solutions are ideal and are not controversial, and there are some things that are controversial would be the order to be at least, even though it is said for some justified reasons that it should be in an emergency procedure. But then at least some longer period so that it can be discussed through committees even in the plenary session itself. That's why I think emergency procedure and this way is very unserious of the Croatian Parliament. This is my opinion, and I believe that a large part of the citizens will share such an opinion, because I don't think they'll end up talking about the law especially when it comes to what has been said and I don't think that it should have been touched by the law at all, because these provisions, when it comes to Article 13 or Article 54 and about an order to the defence minister's proposal, because in that part some have also warned about Article 100 of the Constitution. But I also have to say to Article 94 of the Constitution, where the President of the Republic is responsible for the defence, and the question of responsibility is one and a broader concept. And if we're saying that orders can only be made on the basis of the minister's proposal, then the question is, and how much is that responsibility? And whether or not these changes in the law itself are the cause of perhaps and again further conflicts between the president and prime minister of the government. I wouldn't want it to be like that, but in fact it may be a further cause between certain disputes. As regards this part of what has been said and said that this is also the reason for the emergency procedure, which is the decision to assign the Armed Forces to the protection of the airspace of the Member States, Article 14, 54a. and the activities of the Armed Forces of the member states in the Croatian airspace. Is when it comes to the protection of airspace in Croatia, then the Parliament remains the one who gives prior approval. But there's one question about how this bill was formulated around here? It is not only an action in some kind of intervention situation but it is the law itself that opens up some kind of broader and greater possibility that we are asking ourselves a question clearly knowing that it is now ending in some way the delivery and remonting of MiGs related to the protection of airspace. But that their lifetime should still be seven years somewhere, and that means that it will already have to go and make decisions whether the Croatian Air Force will be restored with new aircraft, which type will be, which is the country? We know that there are certain interests here, so it starts with America, Israel and some other countries, and there's a question that one particular part of the year must pass, and that's training on those planes so that they can practically replace these existing planes. Clearly, it is also in some way a question that opens up space within whether it is the preparation that we will eventually leave the protection of our airspace and allow someone else or possibly in agreement already with some others we will jointly protect this space. But I think the Croatian public should know about it, that it should know what plans are involved in protecting Croatia's airspace and safety. What I want to say in the end, and this is a question of municipal compensation, and I mean in particular this way in an emergency procedure, and where it is said that within 30 days the unit of local self-government needs to and make a decision regarding the non-payment of municipal compensation related to military facilities in its area is very inappropriate in this situation. Because some units of local self-government are in their budgets and planning these funds, and it will now be brought into a very difficult situation because of its planned resources it will not be able to achieve them and will not be able to realise certain things. Who will possibly be responsible for their plans? That is why I think that when a law is passed that this should be taken into account, especially knowing that a significant part of the funds is somewhat reduced by the units of local self-government through the amendments to the Income Tax Act. And this will be for some who have significant military facilities in their area and a very financial blow to their budgets. We know the situation that even last year, Mayor Slunja resigned precisely because he could not be charged for municipal compensation, and some small towns, municipalities or cities in which there are extremely significant military facilities, will be a very significant blow to them. And on the other hand, the countries in the budget have not found adequate solutions for their budgets which will certainly not survive in this way and will not be able to finance everything provided for in the municipal compensation. So I don't think this hasty way was necessary, and I don't think it's good. And as far as this second law is concerned, it's a question of the Armed Forces Act, in that part, and we support certain solutions that are quality, especially this part of the extension of the first contract from 3 years to 4 years. But because of the way I said it and the problems I don't think the procedure itself is good, we can't support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112857	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted the list of persons registered for debate on behalf of clubs and representatives. I call upon the esteemed Deputy Minister, the final word of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112858	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are the honourable parliamentary representatives who have had the patience to welcome the end of this debate I thank you both for your remarks and for your actions regarding the Law of Defence and the Service Act. There's no Mr. Novak here, even though I'll start with him. I'm sorry if I used a draft, instead of a proposal, I didn't accidentally notice it, and I thank him if he corrected me correctly. As far as his remarks are concerned that I'm nice to him in my position to defend my views, I don't know whether it's sweet or not, he's nice to me the same way when he brings out attitudes that I think he doesn't know enough sometimes, so read them in layman's terms. I think I know something about defense, and here next year it's going to be 30 years to work in it, and I don't think my attitudes are too strong. I'm always for dialogue and for talking to all of you and I'm trying to answer everything you've made a comment with an explanation and an argument. His observation that we didn't properly explain why we increased 3 years to 4 years and that the only reason was that 20 years was retirement, that's one reason. So when a person who's going to have a first contract for 4 years, 5 to 6 means we have a total when we add up, we're going to get to a 15-year-old number. He forgot the provision means that a soldier in the Armed Forces can be admitted no later than the calendar year in which he ends his 27th year. So 27 + these 15 would be some 42-year-old life age, which according to the estimates of some countries is considered a time-limit for a professional soldier to perform a professional soldier who is extremely demanding. And our professional soldiers are primarily deployed in the Guard Brigades is one of the reasons why we've defined ourselves for this way. Then he asked us a question of exclusion of inter-urban transport, I don't think he's read another provision, so the people who are located in military locations, which are primarily meant by our soldiers who we wish weren't daily on buses when it comes to professional soldiers, but the persons who are located in military locations during their stay and perform their service have the right and 50% of the housing fees to the nearest place where they usually live. They get that amount of compensation, so we didn't take anything away from them for long. As a rule, officers and others who have opportunities, for which we have accommodation options, are located in official apartments and in official apartments, it is taken into account that their size depends on the size of their families that they can be placed in them. Mr Novak also said that he thinks that the municipal fee right now is taken for the reason that we could finance a military parade, I don't think it was even cute, and I'm simply asking you what you would do at the position of the defence minister who has before him the Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia in 2013 where the article 19 states "RH and state offices have been exempt from paying the municipal compensation." Therefore, the defence minister only had different actions to ensure that his wish for these transitional provisions to be harmonised within 30 days was a wish for all cities or local self-government to act in the same way. If you have a situation that some cities themselves have made a change in their solutions and do not pay more communal compensation, and behind that you have cities that execute us and drive us to the defence minister means in the counter-to-work procedure because otherwise he will answer the next year when the State Audit comes to the Ministry of Defence why he did not make the counter-to-do for that amount. I think his behavior is responsible. Is it on the best track that the Ministry of Defence should be exempt from the municipal fees I think you should have discussed when this Law was adopted on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I don't think it's too late and after this, this is our only literally desperate attempt to even it out and next year we have no objection that the minister of defense for some units of local self-government has gone deaf so he hasn't made a counter to the amount of money that was taken from him. On the other hand, you said yourself that certain local units of local self-government only live on the communal fee and then the question arises, and here I will tell you an example of Benkovca City, look at its budget and see how much it is coming from the Ministry of Defence against municipal compensation. So the question of their functionality and their sustainability is what can be discussed as well. The Ministry of Defence is always open to this kind of conversation, at all we offered even talks before this in a way that we go in a different way to determine the height of the municipal fee that local self-government does not account for areas that simply have no infrastructure on them at all but parts of the forest that are only used as such, they refused. Perhaps this will be one of the ways that will force them to sit together on the table and consider this issue one more time. And I think the Department of Defense is always open to this kind of question. Mr Novak said that by taking away the municipal fee we would prevent the poor and other funding in these units of regional and local self-government, some of the colleagues here, I unfortunately did not remember a parliamentary representative, or the representative correctly said the money from the municipal compensation could not be used for any other purpose, but only for the municipal infrastructure. Therefore, some units of local self-government resort to the fact that they do not have enough money to finance their own other needs and do not extend the meaning of the municipal infrastructure for the money they have received in relation to the communal compensation, which means that they themselves are committing a violation. Mr. Petar Baranovic also referred to the communal fee and referred to the question of the state's irresponsible behaviour towards the property that has been handed over, he referred it to the state, the government, and I can accept it on behalf of the government, but the Ministry of Defence has declared some of the facilities inequitable, handed them over to the State Property Management Office because such a law and afterwards, the Ministry of Defence really cannot and no longer have the power or resources to guard such facilities until the time when the state itself will hand them over to local self-government or something else. I will, for example, tell you that the Ministry of Defense here in Pula was up to maybe a month ago, it's exhausting for us to run an army from Vinkovci to keep the museum in Pula so that someone doesn't devastate it, because the local self-government unit didn't take over it. I don't think it's really an obligation or any more of the Ministry of Defense's duties that even those modest resources that you've all been saying here for the last time that the Ministry of Defense's budget has been reduced because it's true and there have been some against the reports, the annual defence reports have voted precisely for the reason we've received less funding and on the other hand they're telling us, now some are saying why we don't keep it. One and the other claims are how they overlap. Some of you who said it was four months from the moment, I didn't say for a moment that we didn't have the authority to command, so for the use of our two. It existed, however, was missing and was brought in 2009 without a legal basis. It was then brought by the general, meaning the commander of the Croatian Army without having had a basis for it in the Defence Act. Now that we have received a request that it be restored to the current Chief of Staff is in the same way that you would not accept and I did not want to transfer the power of operational and tactical command without creating a legal basis in the Defence Act. And I was saying on the board that the reason for it is four months, it might seem a lot to you, it doesn't seem like much to me because it wasn't easy to agree on how to regulate it in relation to constitutional provisions. Mr Gjurkovic is about the Croatian Military School and its development, we are indeed leading the Croatian Military School towards a research facility and that is our intention, I confirm it here. So we expect that it would have its abilities in two years so it could get a pass, and the reason it seems to me that some of you didn't realize it wasn't about enrolling students who would be late, but it was about the people we got as possible employees of that same military study. So on two studies we can young people who want to develop through the scientific activity of the co-operational scientific and scientific education and teaching training sites and they can develop in accordance with the Law on Science. It's very important to us because we lost one group that existed until a certain moment within the armed forces. So one of our members can also be an active military person at the same time, and can develop through the Law on Scientific Activity and can reach a regular professor. So we want to create in the Croatian Military University objects that will be objects that are specific, specialistic objects from our people who are active military personnel that can teach students equally with professors or colleges with which we have contracts. This is why we felt that one year in the development of a young man who wants to develop a scientific lot to miss it, and we couldn't do that some of you have told us why you didn't do it before, because simply the Ministry of Science has only now given us approval that we could introduce a third category of employees in our law with employees, civil servants and tenants to be public service employees and that if they are not active military personnel can be paid as public employees. Ms. Dunja Špoljar has simply shown you a plastic example of what air space control means and why it is important that NATO command in Naples, which sees radar image, can intervene and get from our authority, and this will tell you to be commander of the Croatian Air Force, get the consent that against such aircraft if they do not respond, unless it says why it has strayed from the route and if it is assumed that the warning signals are not responding, if it is assumed that it is a threat that a decision can be made to act combatably. NATO, however we experience it in the Republic of Croatia, will not do it alone, but needs a national authority's decision on such a matter. Another thing some of you may not understand, another thing within these provisions is what makes international contracts with the countries that offer us a contract. This does not mean that we will conclude contracts with all the countries that are members of the NATO Alliance, but those that are interested. As a rule, it's an interesting country you're bordering on. The countries with which you border say we will give you permission when you make an agreement that if the federal command lifts them up, they can cross the border and in Hungary combat depending on the agreement whether it will be 5, 15 or 20km within their space from the Croatian border. These are the basic reasons why we've changed the law in that part, and I think Mrs. Spoljar has set a very concrete example that we've had these days. What most of you mentioned, which is 49,51,52,53,54, I will ask you a question, the President of the Republic, how do you think she has so far made an order to use the armed forces after the Croatian Parliament has decided that 90 members of the Armed Forces are going to Operation Resolution support. In a decision taken by the Croatian Parliament, I do not have it in front of me right now, but I will quote to you the Croatian Parliament that 90 members of the Armed Forces are being directed to the Peace Operation or to the Mirovina Mission of Resolution to support it within 6 months and that the Government has been told by the second party to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this decision. In the accompanying explanation of this decision, you are generally told what will be done by these forces of those 90 that we will direct. This is the last time, for example. in an explanation written that the basis of these forces will make up members of the Special Action Army. But that's not what we wrote to you. We didn't write you a concrete contingent on how which contingent structure would be of those 90 people. We couldn't write them to you because after we were given a mandate from the Croatian Parliament that we could go to Afghanistan and to that retirement mission then the chief of staff or his people who he appointed go to so-called. a conference on the generation of forces where they then choose between what allies offer and other positions. When you have a total of other positions then you are formed a whole contingent and therefore the provision states that the Chief of Defense will do so with the Chief of Staff, none of you mentioned it here, neatly in the law writes, the Minister of Defence in cooperation with the Chief Staff will propose to the Presidents of the Republic of Command. This is no interference in its chain of command because the President of the Republic and now the President of the Republic and the former presidents of the two I worked for have never given an order without being referred to by the defence minister. This is just a technical formalization of what is normally done in reality. So everyone here admitted that our intention was to enter the defence minister into the armed forces' command process. If you've had a chance to listen to me, there's been a big debate about who's commander of the Armed Forces and never anyone from the Department of Defense has questioned how neatly he says he's the commander of the Armed Forces and the commander-in-chief of the Republic. I don't think there's any doubt about that. There are only states where someone decides to use the Armed Forces, and I don't think today is the time or place to tell you about it. So, that's the question I think I've answered. Never again does President Mesic, President Josipovic and the president of the Republic have made an order of any kind directly based on the Croatian Parliament's decision. It's always been made by the Secretary of Defense. So it's a technical matter, not getting into the chain of command. Then Mr. Djurovic said that you gave us the same remark, so I think I gave you the answer to that. The communal fee, though, is that, Mr. Tušak, I remain only obliged to say that he is now, these are what I have explained to you, so air space control has brought into question the purchase of fighter aircraft, believe me, it has nothing to do with each other, if you can trust me. Therefore, the Defence Council last year, meaning all the responsible persons involved in the defence then said that in the purchase of combat aviation, whether it is new, second-hand or someone, will go for sure that the acquisition of fighter aircraft will not give up, the Ministry of Defence has told you, and I have told you for the last time now in the process of gathering information offers to see at all what prices the world offers and what it would afford for the Republic of Croatia. And the decision has to be made by 2016. About the fact that the two of us can't do this job right now, I have to tell you that the two of us can do that job. So 11 MiG planes that were on the remount were admitted to the Armed Forces and in everyday use was 8 of them. So we meet the average of all other states that have combat aviation. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112859	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Minister. We have a replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112860	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues of Tafra, you've said how it's worked so far, given these provisions of the law. I agree with you, it's worked very well so far. Then why change it? Why enter in the form of mandatory form? And that's controversial. Nothing else is disputed. Why can the President of the State not make a decision or order to use the Armed Forces without the previous proposal of the Minister and based on the decision of the Croatian Parliament? Why involve this in the form of a mandatory form of defence minister? There's no need. And so far, it's known that, of course, the president will not write her own orders and orders to use the Armed Forces that she needs professional support and support. Well, the Law of Defence, because that's how the solution is the question of who serves the President of the Republic in professional matters. It's the Department of Defense and the Chief Staff as an integral part. So there's no need, there's no reason to bring confusion to this provision that raises the issue of constitutionality in the first place, whether it's such a bill. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112861	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Minister Vishny Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112862	So here I don't like to play constitutional issues because I don't think I'm a good enough constitutional legal expert, we're going to leave it to someone who's a constitutional legal expert to deal with it and we don't dispute to anyone that we've made in the Defence Act, in service and in 2013 and today, so anyone who can run a constitutional assessment because they think that some law, or act, is contrary to the Constitution, can do it. We're just telling you, the military doesn't like you to function in a way that isn't prescribed. Sometimes we even get mad at them for it. And those were just the reasons that we introduced, that's no defense minister. Therefore, when the President of the Republic receives such a proposal as you say the proposal for an order, she rejects it equally, returns it because it does not have to be in line with the proposal of the contingent to be referred to by the defence minister. And on the other hand, you have to be aware that the contingent still needs to be examined at the end, who will make the composition of the contingent because, in the end line, the composition itself carries a certain financial weight. So that was the basic reason and I'm really telling you that there was no reason to enter the chain of command. We talked about it today at the Assembly Defence Committee. You asked me if the Councilors of the President of the Republic were with us at the consultations, I told you they were, I listed all the three who were with us at the consultations and agreed with the text that was made. They had certain remarks that we fixed. However, since the Law of 2013 has left out the meaning of the provision, i.e. the deleted provision, that the President of the Republic agrees with the proposals of the law in the area of defence, its written consent is no longer necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112863	Thank you very much. If I may ask, may the Commander give the order without any suggestions?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112864	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112865	Informal, informal. ... /The speaker went off/... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112866	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-17-0.u112867	Okay, thank you. That's all that matters to me. We have exhausted the list of representatives' clubs and the proposal's closing statement. And that's what we ended up discussing these bill proposals. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll stop working now. We will continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly tomorrow with the already established agenda item 4. Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2014. I want a good vacation, a follow-up, we'll be waiting for you tomorrow. Now, let's see if we have the quorum again. Okay? Thank you very much. We've got enough MPs to decide. We're going to decide on the topics we've discussed in the past few days. First is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 850, the debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I pray that the adoption of this law requires the majority of votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament i.e. 76 votes to, Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 4 votes abstentions and 21 votes against, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
