ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106539	I'm not very traditional, but it doesn't matter. This is why I'm looking for a break, and it certainly deserves the public's attention, and it's getting more and more fired and more threats to journalists in the printed media who are otherwise neglected because we're always talking about television, so I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106540	Dear Representative Damir Cain, also traditionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106541	This way, Croatia's most life-threatening problem is certainly the country's depopulation. Croatia remains empty, more and more people leave the country, goes abroad. I think that's what the urgent Croatian problem is, and that's why I'm asking for a break from those 5, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106542	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106543	Traditionally, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the same subject as Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106544	That's it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106545	Depopulation...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106546	Freedom of movement in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106547	Yeah, yeah. Exactly, so let's say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106548	All right, all right. Freedom of movement in the European Union. And someone else? In accordance with tradition again, can we go to 9.45? We can. Resume session at 9.45. It's a stop to the demands of the representatives' clubs. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Now we'll hear what the representatives' clubs have prepared. First of all, the club of Independent Leftists and the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106550	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The agony in Croatian media is nothing new, but we have been doing one injustice here, for years we have been talking about it, and there seems to be only one medium for us, and it is television or Internet or portals. However, the biggest agony occurs right in the printed media. But the cause of this agony is not only the poverty of Croatian citizens who are increasingly buying newspapers because between milk, bread and newspapers they still choose bread and milk but are increasingly less journalism in the newspapers, not because journalists do not know what journalism is, not because journalists have given up journalism, but because the owners are asking journalists to be propagandists. Or to be economic propaganda, to celebrate the actions of those who are powerful in the economy or to be political propaganda and to advocate certain political options. Croatian journalistic society has issued a statement in the wake of the cancellation of cooperation with Boris Dezulovic, which is not difficult to agree with but does not agree with the thesis that has been garnered there that newspapers are easily disowning their own journalists. I don't think it's about the denial of its own journalists, that it's not about the new concept, but it's about the beginning of a spiritual restoration. It's the beginning of a reconstruction. If you ask journalists and editors at HRT what is happening, you will see that editorial teams are already being completed that will come after the election instead of those who manage HRT today. So nothing's going to change. The same thing will happen for years, or every shift. Croatia is not too rich with excellent exceptional journalists, excellent writers such as Boris Dežulovic but he got it, he was cancelled co-operation because he published a text that was declared the best comment in Europe in 2014. The text was written in 2012 and was cancelled because the editor published the text, and the journalist was killed. I also think that those who have read this text and who have followed it know what the text is about and I will not talk about the text itself. I think it's a complete indication of turning right because instead of Dežulovic they hired a columnist who's on the opposite side of the ideological side. But it's happening in another newspaper, and it's a New List, and it's also a redecoration. A new newspaper that used to be a neat newspaper with orderly business, a newspaper that was read if not in all of Croatia then at least in Kvarner of that part of Croatia, was happily read in Zagreb, but it is already being reconstructed there, so Boris Pavelic was reportedly fired and reportedly fired last night because he conveyed the claim by Josip Manolic that Mr Tomislav Karamarko once was an associate of UDBA. I think if that's why we're going to judge the press it's a disaster. However, it is not judged or referred to as the owner of the Faggian before whom Zagrebačka banka was throwing money to survive, it and its marifettelus, but it is always given to journalists. But Faggian can do whatever he wants, pump the money out of the company any way he wants. Also Drazen Cigleneski, who for 20 years has been following developments in HDZ, must no longer do so because he is not fit for it. It's a clean reconstruction, it's a blow to journalism, and I warn from this place that journalists have the right to their own opinion and that politics must not manage the media. Neither HRT, meaning public media, nor HINA, which is a public media but also to private media whose owners agree with the parties, the heads of the panel so that they can return through writing through their actions and they will receive financial support for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106551	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106552	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I think you should have warned MP Vuksic In Article 238, he spoke lies, his own structures, and his inventions. [[Leko: What did I do wrong by the Rules of Procedure?]] Going this unargumented to attack a political party and the president of the largest Croatian party is simply ridiculous. The man who won 1.5% in the elections in Zagreb behaves like this and spits on someone is below each level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106553	Thank you very much. You have also abused the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure, let me tell you, and hastened my only possibility of giving my consideration as chairman after this. And by doing that, you really hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course the qualifications presented in the press conference, evaluations and analysis are a matter of the club that put it out. For the sake of this debate in the Rules of Procedure, there is no correction of incorrect allegations because it is not in the Rules of Procedure, there is no replica, because it is not intended for such events and there is no debate because it is not envisaged. It's a conference for the public of a club that we've qualified several times. And it's true that all the qualifications and grades that were presented by the club are nothing more than the position of the club. ... Don't be because you're unhappy negative at everything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We now have a club list of Independent Lists and a respected representative of Damir Cain's new topic, again a press conference and the position of the club of representatives of the Independent List.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106554	Now I feel bad that I didn't take a break on that trail because journalists have the right to their own opinion and says Mr. Vuksic except in some Istrian media, and that was the 2006 cleanup, but let's let it go now. According to an Austrian institute in Croatia, about 115 thousand people intend to move out or think about moving to Canada, Austria, Germany does not matter now to Australia. It is a great way to be cynical to, say, get rid of unemployment in Croatia. Everyone's moving out, and our statistics are impeccable. But I answered that for a few moments. Yesterday I read a text in the Evening List that in the last year and a half, 32 thousand 567 Slavons have moved out of Slavonia, in the twenty-seven years of 170 thousand. If Slavonia has lost 32 567 inhabitants in a year and a half, and there are Croatians, then let's say that Croatia has lost a hundred thousand at the same time. There is nothing more life-threatening in Croatia than this question of depopulation. The removal of work permits from 1.7 in Germany, Great Britain, and somewhere else, this trend will certainly increase. First, they need labour, and on the other hand they face depopulation. The Austrians today read, they said, they would not open the borders for that or for that matter. I'm not a racist, nor am I saying it's the Germans, the Americans, I don't know the Canadians, but those who go the way of Canada, California, etc. say they note that the advantage of employment has a white workforce and that almost everyone in Croatia who wants to work can get a job tomorrow already. If we want to keep people is not a problem I say public debt, at least it's not a problem number one, the problem is the debts of our citizens. Today, except in the state sector, you can't get a job on a permanent basis, and I'm saying that also small, perhaps even harder for craftsmen than for workers who work with them. They're existing state services, communal services why? Because these are little monopolies, the monopolies of the hotel I don't know about registries, the rhumbs, Umag down on the coast, the functioning part of the export economy is usually about transformed these state systems. On the wings of its recovery, the EU has withdrawn the Croatian export economy that is today, so we can say in 60% foreign ownership whether it is Pliva, whether it is INA, whether it is TDR tomorrow, CIMOS, HEMPEL etc. etc. but we have not been prepared for the EU at all. The main culprit of what is happening in the country with corruption, nepotism, media indemnity spoken of by Mr Vuksic, is not the institution's doing, among other things, the guessing. Let one get a job by party, one bus from young people leaving Croatia. That's the ratio. After each election in one electoral term, and in Croatia we have about 5 600 public bodies, public authorities, somewhere count about 3,000 new jobs for individuals hard on the party matrix. 3,000 employees, times one bus per year, and that's exactly 150 thousand people in those four years of math. We have a problem as well as at the time of the war. May God return and avoid Serbs from the Krajina area but I doubt that will happen. I follow Istria equally, the people who go there we're closest to working in each other, stay in the rule of Padua, Verona, Venice hardly coming back. On the other hand, we also exhausted a reservoir from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just in '92, 98 every year, there were 50,000 people coming to these places. We can say about 300, 400 grand. But now it's important to make sure that one of these people stays there. So we need to take care of the judiciary, the banking system, that small economy, free Croatia from crime because otherwise we will become only the EU dormitory.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106555	Thank you very much. She finished a conference for the public of the club of representatives of the Independent List in the Croatian Parliament. No question and no answer. Thank you very much. ... I'm sorry, I didn't ask you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Agent, if you have something to say, you can pick up the tablet and we'll hear it and write it down. A colleague, Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106556	From the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106557	I know, I know. Same press conference for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106558	Who thought to talk about the Stalinist method of cancelling work relations on Croatian television and the latest case of Branimir Farkas just because he didn't slip the card when he went home.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106559	It is indeed for the conference but down in the hall of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106560	We are going about the ethnic cleansing of Croatia then being carried out, so I would say even designed so you could really call it because it takes on the characteristics of ethnic cleansing of Croatia. So because of the non-implementation of economic, social, and, above all, some moral reforms in Croatia, because of corruption, crime, and we may hear from our guest present, because there are no investments mainly capital, and Slavonia is a completely non-grey zone, but a completely black hole in capital investment, due to the carelessness of 300 thousand blocked who can't even borrow credit to do anything in life, we have a strong outflow of young people, but also educated people and about language knowledge, but also Internet educated people. And what did we get? Mr. Cain has already said, but I also have to say that there are some parameters that are completely clear. Zagreb, unemployment rate 9%, RH average 17%, Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, 5 counties 30.4% unemployment, Caglin Municipality 92% unemployment rate, 20 more municipalities over 50% unemployment rates in Slavonia. In 1965, she was so - called. economic reform where people went to temporary work in Germany as individuals, and families stayed here. Now the tragedy is far greater if entire families go away, so young people in a fertilized age with children and women, go away forever. In addition, HRT makes a promotional film called "Beautiful Ireland" in which everyone who has given an interview there says that he is well, although I know fellow doctors from Slavonski Brod who returned from Ireland after three months and said we can't do it there is not good for us. But not a promotional film to move as much as Croatia can. That's why I said it was designed to be some kind of ethnic cleansing. Because if someone says as our president told me, freedom of the labour market and labour force, that's what I heard five years ago from some of the Kukuriku coalition who said that Croatia's main goal is to join the EU so that our people can find a job outside. If that is Croatia's main goal, then it is quite clear what it is aimed at. It's exactly what I called such a difficult qualification of ethnic cleansing. The achievements in withdrawing funds from the EU should be the goal of Croatia's entry into the EU, and here we know what the achievements are, said Mr Cain that you said at the press conference very often about how much we have paid, and how much money we have withdrawn from the funds, that is some plus-minus 30 million euros in total, and 750, 800 million euros we have paid and withdrawn. It's very, very small. Number of real sector employees, e.g. in Slavonia and Baranja, there is only 10 to 12%, and the centralisation of the state of all companies and everything in Zagreb is huge, so there is also a rate of unemployment of only 9, all where luck is that there is none, but here is 9% unlike Slavonia, which has an unemployment rate of 30%. In Slavonia, already in 4 Slavonia County, there are more pensioners than employees. That's what we were saying when 1:1 came then we were in, but in Slavonia already four counties. Only Osijek-Baranja has more employees than pensioners, and in the other four there are far more pensioners. So, we're concerned, there's no quality and elaborate demographic policy, there's no measures that would encourage young people to stay here and increase the birth rate here and perform demographic restoration. That's not what we're thinking, no one's even discussing it, we don't have a topic in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u106561	Thank you very much. She completed a press conference at the HDSSB Club on time and the cost of the Croatian Parliament. I expect the club to propose a strategy on the development of Slavonia and Baranja which we will have opportunities to consider here with questions, answers and suggestions. And now we're going to cross over to work on a fixed agenda. - Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2014. The report was submitted by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 45. Court law. You've received a report. The debate was conducted by the Justice Committee and its report was received at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia want to give an opening statement? Yeah. Dear Branko Hrvatin, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, introducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112929	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a report from the Supreme Court for me as president on the state of the judicial authority for 2014 and it is a practical continuation of that earlier report for 2013. Let me just say in this introduction my opinion that you will accept or attack or further elaborate, which is that such reports make sense mostly in that the comparison can assess the trend in the movement of the general rule of law as a whole, and that is to say, individual branches of the judiciary that are within the judicial authority. The point was to verify whether there were further changes in the better or worse or not because the objectives we presented in the report were realistic more or less, whether they were achieved in that part more or less and what a trend towards fundamental indicators. Of course, the purpose of the report is to explain certain reforms, their consequences, and their impact on the rule of law as a whole. That's why this report is set up in that sense and it contains numerical indicators. Of course, numerical indicators are necessary even though their interpretation can certainly be different. And to the state of the conclusion of how courts work specifically, how good or bad statistics are also used. But the numbers themselves are not and can't be the only real information to create a true, complete conclusion. The numbers point to a trend, they warn, serve as one of the information to understand the situation, as I said, to determine the state of decision and to seek answers to what to do to improve the system, to go ahead and certainly to act at the level of the entire judicial authority in improving the perception of the situation as it is. We have already said in 2013 in this context that we have set certain goals that have been reflected and according to the reduction in the number of cases in work, as a rule solves more than it does in the judicial system itself. To reduce inside that number is the real backlog, and these are the objects that have been unwarrantedly standing before our courts in a fragmented phase but without a decision. Changes that are in front of our courts by solving more difficult, time and logistically demanding cases, and thus resulting in a reduction in the average duration of each case. We certainly focused then and said that we should also work to increase quality. And of course it can be traced through the percentage of the number... a decision or other way of tracking the resolution but certainly not the essential part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important through better and clearer arguments that make up the most important, part of the judicial authority or the trial. There is certainly a levelling of court practice and in this part certain objectives are set and here is what we have done during this period and how we can observe perhaps certain movements. The first trend in the reduction in the number of cases at the end of the year was continued compared to the one in '12, and '13, now in '14. A year. You have separate percentages and numbers so we've separated those real court cases so to speak, in which less are involved in the work of authorised court officers. So that's how we put land-book items and registries in that group and certainly all those groups of cases in which the judicial authority is precisely in the realization of its role. So here we have finished a year in number of 574 thousand 788 items, which makes 119 thousand items more or less, which subject was less than it was last year in the same period. If we're looking at this wider tracking, then that number 616 thousand 900 and some object that's 122,000 less than the end of last year. Therefore, this trend exists, and for now I will remain only at that conclusion. One, in our Croatian language we have not yet found the right words... But that's the ratio of solved and unsolved items in the total sample is 106.59%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we solved about 6% more objects than the system itself. But it's in this group that's kind of more in my focus where they're the real court cases that's a percentage of 111.37%. Why do I say that? It's one of the arguments that we can say that indicates that it's just those harder objects at the expense of something easier but certainly numbers are there to interpret in different ways and I just gave you that information. There was a high flow of objects in 2014 but it was for the first time less than 1.5 million objects that we had whole, all these years earlier. It ended up on a million 322 thousand items and I repeat it is smaller than last year but in absolute numbers it is still extremely large for a state like the Republic of Croatia. And if you are looking at the data that we receive from the World Bank or from the European Union, then the comparison of the population to that number is still more than in other European Union countries. In 2014, 847 thousand 524 items were solved, which is less than in 2013 when 10% more cases were solved. So the total drop in unsolved cases is that 17%. Here I am obliged to warn you of one thing that you have in the report that these numbers and the analysis of the case indicate that they have solved more difficult, logistically demanding and time-consuming objects, and then we can justify this smaller number of pending cases because it is not the same to solve one executive object or one litigatory object. But the important thing is that the number and ratio of solved and received items is positive. What I've emphasized especially in the criminal branch of the trial that I'm going to say, a little later two minutes more, we can't be satisfied with any fall in resolution regardless of this part but of course we'll have to follow it well, and see where organisationally we can find places to reconcile those two things. Solve harder cases but also organisational and relocate judges to certain positions and solve a number of cases. This will come in particular in 2015, and unfortunately because of certain reform moves, but also because of the fact that we are late for the transfer of judges I was talking about from, say, the breaking branch of the trial to administrative trial, to part of the litigation that they can accept and thus make an even better use of our resources. So that's the part that can be said to be numerically justified but I'm not personally satisfied with that fact. What's left is the same thing we talked about and I'm going to say a little bit later, there are still important constraints in the business capacities and the possibility of using space. The spaces are really inappropriate. I'll just say one thing, the recession is clear to everyone, it's a fact that we respect, but the fact that Great Gorica, let's say, is now one big county court still cut down, for example. with an entirely public enterprise, but it is one precedent that is probably not in the world, that you have one floor court, and then you have two floors of some kind of public enterprise, and again you have a small court, it is not some thing that should satisfy any Croatia in today's conditions, regardless of the recession. I can mention the Supreme Court building that for 12 years has failed to renovate a part of its space and then I repeat another thing to be clear, the recession is clear, the material resources are needed everywhere, but it speaks more about the relationship, talking about a relationship that shows itself through a longer period of time to simply say ma this is okay, we will solve this once the time comes that it has a certain need and it needs a good, good think about it. Spaces once again but I repeat will return to that when I opened this topic were used above capacity. A large number of judges and advisers work in one space to say what is very, very difficult for this business process. There is a certain lack of courtrooms, and we need to use this space economically, and we will see what happens after these reform moves of mergers. I came up, for the words of reform, and you know that here in this Croatian Parliament we talked about the reform move that we were preparing in 2014. The ministry, which the executive authority of course made certain decisions, prepared certain programmes, but the implementation was to be prepared in municipal courts, infringement courts on the ground. It's the second part of '14. In order to start working on this new organisation of municipal courts and infringements that will begin 1.7 with a significant reduction in the number of these basic large courts and with a number of associated services. What needs to be said here immediately in this introductory section that we have done this work, prepared, but we cannot follow it to the end for now because certain information tools are not yet available to us. They will be made but it is a pity that they are not already done because what happens at any such change can be a delay in the pace of work. This has been shown in all the countries that have implemented this. We hope that we will be able to track it on the ground, that we will be able to react and certainly that part which is one logical consequence of major reform mergers will not be achieved, but we will talk about it in the 2015 report, so for now I would stay here. So as for this general review, you'll find it on the pages of this report and I'm basically saying something about it. So what satisfies is the trend of reduction in both foreign and absolute cases, but the fact is that we're going to have to work on a different organization that this smaller number of cases that I repeat is larger than the number of objects that have come and thus we've made certain still in some way mitigated in that part. I mentioned working conditions. You will see that the number of judges and total staff, therefore within this branch, has not increased, although the total number of employees and judicial officials and advisers, professional associates, trainees, etc., is reduced in total by some 201, which is not some large number compared to a total of 8600 people currently working in the system. However, it has proved that we are able to reduce that number and we will continue to do so in the coming period. As far as the appointments we've shown are concerned, we have few appointments, mostly those were the appointments of judges who were performed under the redistribution of the profession, so to speak, from the transition of the judges from the lower court to the higher court, and the small was an extremely small number of entrys into the profession while the number of resolutions is somehow at level 40, 43, now 32 with a trend that will remain this year. What I'm going to add now with the material financial resources, that was one of the reasons we spoke a lot of words about in the previous report. What is new in 2014, the reduced debts we made, but not debts in favour of saying so to the courts, but in favour of conducting the proceedings because they are intellectual costs for defenses under official duty, for art and other things. Then you will remember that by comparing the 4 largest county court in the country, the cost totaled about 55 million kuna. He was subdued in 2014 and one of the results is just probably part of the debate before this House and so much has been increased in the budget, but the objective budget for 2014 has not been increased, except for those funds that have been given to settle debts, that we are now at a level of 9 million 900, so 1/5 of the previous debt we have and let's say there is some progress, but it is a debt. So in that part, these costs need to be settled, and that part will do so. We cut employee spending from 84% of the total budget to 78.57%. This is precisely the result of the very small number of 200 people who somehow left the judicial authority itself, regardless of the position they were in and certain savings in that part. But what I've warned you about and I'm going to say again, a lot of words don't have to say, then we said that the future of the judiciary, the judicial authorities is in specialization, in education, in quality improvement, and you can't do it without a permanent education, without continuous training, and we mentioned a situation that's important new. This is EU entry and the need to adapt and European law in general, but in particular EU law, the practice of European courts etc. You can't do that without professional literature, without additional specialist education and follow-up. But unfortunately, it's probably justified by these resuscitation times for professional training that we've significantly reduced these funds. And I said here and I stand behind that the funds that have been allocated to professional training are at the level of all courts. But again I set an example of four of the largest courts, the county court in the country now at a symbolic level. It's just a symbolic meaning, because if you had, say, Osijek that had 18220 approved in 2013 which is also a symbolism for the acquisition of literature and everything else is now at the level of 7 and a half thousand. That one River that had then large 10,000 kunas which is absolutely insufficient for one such court with is at a level of 7,000. If there was a County Court in Split that had then come to 19220, he had something more than these now is at the level of 6636 kuna. One comment of the case law of the European Court of Justice or of the European Court of Human Rights which must be bought in euro, and we did not, unfortunately, say any of the things formally, but what has been bought is a private of 83 euros with the most secret covers to say, the worst press, and further, we cannot without it. We can survive to say so during a certain period, but if it is a trend over a long period of time then there will be certain consequences that we simply won't be able to avoid. You have voted here on the Law of Courts with a provision which was certainly necessary and necessary for the unification of court practice and of this new reorganisation of courts. But that's, let's just say I'll give you the example. Article 27, which says that, with the presidents of all the County courts or presidents of the Criminal Department, the Supreme Court will hold meetings twice a year, expert meetings dealing with certain topics of expertise, results and discussions and conclusions will be published on the website, etc. So it's all clear why, it's necessary. But I'm asking you if we have this much money for professional training and official ways to physically do it. Maybe we can make one such meeting because we need to meet in one place. Travel costs, accommodation costs. And in some ways, we'll probably be able to overcome it. Here's an idea, and we're going to ask the Ministry of the Interior who, along with the Department of Justice, has that drive in Valbandon, where there's a lot of cheap accommodation, etc. So we have some ideas, but it's the same thing you have to pay again. It's state-owned, but it has to be paid of course. And we'll definitely go to the cheapest solutions, we'll keep an eye on it. But I repeat, you need to take care of it. When I'm talking about material, I'm going to move on to this part of information-communication technology that supports the business of courts. You simply today, when you are looking at information today, every job needs and needs to have computer equipment, and the minimum standards to meet these computer equipment are getting higher and higher. You can't use certain databases, certain programs if you don't have the computer equipment of a certain standard. This leads to the need to continuously allocate investment funds in computer equipment so that courts can meet those basic working conditions. So it's not some luxury anymore. It's about basic working conditions. I repeat, after what I said, that's it. My assessment of the situation and recommendations for further informing the courts spoke, talks about the previously established, in an earlier report by me as the President of the Supreme Court that we have sought and we need to create preconditions for simpler management of cases in court, electronic communication with participants in the case, reducing delivery costs because there is no more need for delivery between courts if we can settle this, integration with other systems such as systems of judicial practice which is very well developed relatively with us and in the Supreme Court itself and others. And automated business processes. But one thing I said and repeat again in this report must finally be taken one step further from the very electronic record of the case. We have an e-record as an electronic record of the subject and it's nice, we can track it and this. But that's the most ground-floor part we have to have, the one we need. But we have to accomplish exactly these tasks that I said. This leads to the realization of the electronic file. Most European countries, especially the EU, now do not talk to others, have that electronic record. He saves time, saves money. There's an even more controlling possibility of what entered the file, which came out of the file in that part, and that's something that I'm repeating once again in this 2014 report, so in that part we did a little bit, almost nothing. We have focused on this e-list as statistical tools, as reports and which is good, which is necessary, which allows both monitoring and evaluation of work. But we can't stop at that. As far as certain branches of courts are concerned, I'll say briefly, here's the criminal trial branch, you've looked at those numbers. The fact is that they wrote it themselves, the fact is that the Municipal Courts dealt with mostly cases, but there were 2,000 cases left unresolved again more than it was last year. Where these items are found is important. The important thing is that they are not in those first-degree cases, so where they decide on criminal liability, but they have grown exceptionally in view of new legislation, the new law is a criminal indictment council with its cases. Only comparisons for 2012 before municipal courts came 6711 of these cases, but in the next 2013 when 10900 were in motion and 2014. 1,3900. So the increase is 100%. So these are the cases that you now know by law that all cases of the indictment, all charges must be confirmed according to this '97 CAP of ours. The CAP was different... which decided on the complaint against the indictment, and there was a number of cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is our task is simply this increase which, as you see, is very large in the accused council and also in the criminal cases in the first degree, it is only 0.77% So basically what came for trial itself has been resolved, but there is no justification, better organisation and framework criteria. We measure framework criteria that the ministry has not yet brought, we have raised precisely those framework criteria for resolving these cases in the indictment council. They need to be solved more to achieve the work result required. It's one of the ways that will likely yield results, we expect it to be confirmed by the minister soon. As far as county courts are concerned, you will look at these are mostly the percentage of the number of cases solved and solved at 99.84%. So what I'm going to say is that the process itself is solved by number, but of course those older objects are solved. So this goal must be precisely once again just a higher concentration of the process, an increase in process discipline, a better organisation of work and once again a better use and a more economical use of this space as it is, from this skin we will not be able to do. But that's what you need to see. An analysis of the comparison of the items received, where the number is reduced, and where the cases solved, will be found on page 29 of this report. Generally, the increase also occurred at that level of the extra-racial council for about 100 cases at year level and the execution of prison sentences that were increased therefore not in this direct branch of the trial, but these are the same cases that must be done. As you know, the organization of trials in the criminal court is based on our 4 specialized courts Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka at the county level which are also special courts for USKOK cases, so those organised crime and corruption but also for war crimes. Therefore, these courts are quite burdened precisely by the fact that these are cases where there are a very large number of defendants in which a longer period of procedure is sought because of more sensitive matter of evidence of skillry, etc. What I've done in that part, you'll see, this has come to a certain delegation of cases from these courts, that general criminality and the case against other less burdened courts to say so, but in that part, the results will have to be very well followed. In the second degree, only 150 cases in 2013 to 333 in 2014, but from 1.04 this year, there is a new division of cases that are distributed to all county courts evenly. And we'll see what happens here. There's that task I told you not to cross the border in that part. In short, I still have 4 minutes and 26 seconds left, so as far as the civil branch of the trial is concerned, there has been a reduction in the number of pending cases at the end of the year. The trend of reducing the number of solved old cases has also been retained, they are over 3 years old, but the percentage now stands at 3 years to 35% of the total number of cases. And that's where we have to do the same thing, and what we need to do is control, control and just control. It's something that's all the time in focus. Although you know that for every judge, it's being followed at the monthly level that he solved by the number, how he solved, the behavior in solving, and what kind of case he solved by type of case. And his quality is also monitored. In this part, therefore, we need to stick to our standard ways, and we will see what will be given in the future by this reform with which we should go to the civil branch of the trial through the merger of courts, the specialization of judges. This has now begun and in this part we do not have any results that could show but will be in 2015. As for criminal courts only briefly, you saw that there was a significant drop in the number of cases because of the resolution of about 128%, 129% more cases, so the level is 129% of the solution in the ratio of received and solved cases. And that's what I pointed out in the last report, if you remember. We need to find ways to move the judges from that branch of the trial where we need them. This means precisely in the administrative branch of the trial where we have 30, 33, 34 judges only on the whole of Croatia and on solving likely executive cases in municipal courts, probably in criminal departments to solve first-degree criminal cases in that part. There's a tank we need to start using right away. No special provisions have been passed, unfortunately, in this Law on Courts which has been passed but I believe that we can also use, hopefully, these provisions to do so. But we have to be much more efficient here. At this point, I know that there is an internal competition called among judges, so where DSV will appoint a certain number of judges precisely to the Administrative courts of Rijeka and Zagreb that have a smaller number of extremely small judges since we have only 4 first-degree courts. I warned that we were going past our warnings with the organisation and the introduction of a first-degree administrative trial with a small number of judges. It was completed in 2013, but after that, there was no supplementation, and the number of judges was indeed unsuitable in the light of the number of cases. In the end here you have the conclusions, I've offered short conclusions, no genius moves. I'd be glad to hear any move that can help us in that part because I say the thing is just work, work and control. I said here in the final review that the inflow of new cases in court despite a certain reduction compared to 2013 had become extremely high because it was a million and 300 thousand cases. The continuation of the trend is now an important reduction in the number of cases at the end of the calendar year, the continuation of the trend in the reduction of numbers in old cases, and we can be satisfied with that. However, there are reserves, there must still be a control mechanism organisation, ways of organising work, using space, using time of judges in a way to achieve greater results. What I think can be introduced is also overtime for judges. We're entering the category of officials, but only by that, we don't have any other rights. I think that's what I've been saying for years, and here's one organisation of overtime, especially in a second-degree trial, we can move that number, and I'm telling you in a second-degree trial we have 140 thousand cases in work over the course of one year. If we say that one Finland of all complaints and cases has 13,000 and then I wonder and we have a similar population of about 5 million they, we 4.5 million. So something's wrong. Why do we have so many cases and they're stuck on those 13,000 all appeal cases without counting that part? Thus, this proposal that we have constantly put on your table, with sure control of how to use that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112930	Thank you very much for the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112931	Okay, thank you. You took a few seconds, but you gave me 12 seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112932	You'll have your chance, Mr. President. We're waiting for your performances now in the context of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112933	And I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112934	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, and you can use that, Mr. President of the Court. The first replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President of the Supreme Court on pending cases I would particularly ask about pending cases in a war crimes trial. So this is one problem that is often discussed in the assembly, but often also in public. And what is the fact that over the past year 42 new cases were received, however, that 145 cases with 596 indictees remained unsolved, and that in 2013, there were fewer cases, and 131 pending cases. As you can see, you can speed up the resolution of these items so that we can actually close this war book in this judicial sense. Of course, there is a big problem with the absence trial, so the trial is because a large number of defendants are inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary, but I don't think you would agree that this trend would continue and that the next 10 years we can conclude that a large number of war crimes cases have not been resolved. Of course, I don't object. I'm just finding out a fact that's common knowledge. And something else about old age. So you can see the trend in criminal cases, and I've been commending it since 2007, when 402 cases went out of date, until 2014, so I'm talking about criminal cases, 2014. 13 but certainly the goal is certainly for you and all the judges to come one day hopefully fast at 0. But I'm interested in this war crimes trial. I think we should make a special plan here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112936	The reply to the replica of the Supreme Court President. Here's Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112937	Thank you very much for this question. Here's the data that you indicated 43, saying what you said, that's taking 42 new items and in 2013 it was 22 items. So 100% increase. But it was settled compared to earlier in the year 28, and 2013. 22. These are the most complex objects you know well, there are 596 indictees in these cases that we still have to solve. I cited the case of the County Court right here because it points to what you said, which is that out of the 42 unfinished cases, 24 cases are inactive and are on them due to the maximum number of reasons for the inability of the trial in absentia. So out of those 42 unfinished 24, that's all we stand for. That's what we talked about last time. We have to find, my position was clear and then and I will repeat it wherever it may be tried in absentia it needs. We could have talked about it in another way maybe 10 years ago, 15 years ago, but today, when we have fundamental witnesses who are just people who are slowly regretting their age, because of the different situations of life, the question is how we're going to judge if we don't judge and open these cases now. It's both the prosecution and the courts. And so they suggest that the courts decide but it's a judicial decision that can't be affected. What I said, I mentioned 4 courts just on purpose Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Zagreb which are both jumping objects and war crimes courts. We tried to relieve the delegation of the case precisely according to Bjelovar, Varazdin, wherever we can make these first-degree cases so I can say ordinary crime so that it is these items and jumps that are no easier because they again have a large number of defendants, indictees in these cases and these come in kind of faster procedure in this work. The other thing is, we're going to have to review and talk about the concentration of the procedure, especially it seems to me in the jumping objects and that will allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112938	Thank you very much. There'll be more opportunities. A new replica of respected counterparts, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a long time before Pope Francis said the sign of "Who am I to judge" I can say that these principles were led many years ago by some of our judges and did not judge. Today these times are indeed behind us, the judges are indeed judging, and solving cases which are visible from what you too, Mr. President, explicitly and hardened through statistics and citing numbers. However, there was little talk about the quality of the trial, and I think regardless of the regular or extraordinary legal medications that it should also be the job of the Supreme Court to deal with the quality itself, so that the more discussion in the profession itself is being discussed. Because if the profession doesn't discuss it, they'll talk about it on the street that's not good. So justice really must be an necessity for citizens, not a luxury, they still don't see it that way because unfortunately that's not the case. The courts should in some ways be state pharmacies against injustice, and if the courts themselves do not preserve justice, then they will be the victim of this justice. That can't happen, then. And by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which you yourself have spoken of, I believe it should, but it is our task, I think that you will agree with that, that the bail is abolished as a prison basis of concern about the influence on witnesses because indeed the citizens consider it unfair, they understand in some way that whoever has the money can achieve freedom, they understand that then justice is on the market, and we have to disable it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112940	The reply to the replica is respected Supreme Court President Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112941	... Please agree with the findings that have been made. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Quality is the foundation of independence, so if the courts are of quality they can stand behind that independence, if they are vulnerable in quality then it is all questionable. You've seen in this data that we follow every six months and at an annual level, of course, the quality of work through that percentage of our colleagues, the same individual, who judges in the criminal civil branch. You saw in 2014 we stayed at the percentage level as it was in 2013 and it does not satisfy me, although this is a significant decline compared to 2007, 2008 and 2012. One of the most important roles of the Supreme Court is just equalising court practice. I agree with that. Why? Because the quality you said is well-founded, and the fact that the citizen knows with certainty something with some probability is better said that he will be tried. If he has committed a certain act for this, he needs a legislative basis which you have spoken of to be precise and to know what is illegal, what is allowed and what will be the consequences but the courts are expected to make decisions for all citizens the same. That means if you're looking at the political left, the right, if you're looking at religiously or secularly, but you're looking at men, women, if you're looking at people with disabilities or us who are seemingly completely whole, so everyone has equal rights, everyone has to get equal justice, and that's what we're trying to do through this publication of practice. You will see that on our website you can read every decision of the Supreme Court, 143 thousand decisions of the Supreme Court in full text, we have now introduced a new Centre of Courts that connects all courts to the Republic of Croatia, so that every judge can look inside at any decision written by his colleague. Why? to see how he tried, to attack that decision at the end of the line through his decision, or to rewrite those essential parts if it was well meant to be. And we still have an extended Internet where we'll put the choices we've chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112942	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representatives of the Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112943	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Supreme Court. This report was indeed comprehensive, however, I do not know if you had the opportunity to see it recently published a few days ago a new recommendation from the European Commission for Croatia where Croatia is asked to resuscitate the state budget, to reconcile wages with productivity and to increase the efficiency and quality of the judiciary. So this report shows that efficiency increases, number of pending cases decreases, but also increases the number of judgments abolished. So obviously efficiency is growing to the core of quality. I'm asking for that comment. Furthermore, the Croatian judiciary is now obliged to introduce a European legal system into the Croatian legal system. If you don't have computers, if you don't have money for education, if you don't have money to specialize in how it's going to work, how? That's one of my questions. And what I absolutely agree with you, and I see that you have devoted and turned your attention to the representatives, I don't know if it's sufficiently noticeable, it's the introduction of an e-registration, not based on statistics, but on a truly real e-record that citizens no longer have to walk in courts, but that the e-script is transferred from the municipal court to the county court if anywhere in Croatia is what we discussed when we were taking reform steps to reorganise the network of courts. I ask you when will this e-registration in Croatia be fully applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112944	The reply to the replica is respected Supreme Court President Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112945	I can't answer when it's going to be because... the authorities, but to do everything to warn them about it, of course, and earlier power and current power, it's a fact, it's a future, but we live in the world now in that future to say so. Austria, Germany all of these countries already have such systems as the service of citizens and lawyers in that part. As far as this equipment is concerned, I've mentioned the information equipment, not that it can't be done, you know, but if this is the condition that lasts, my point is that, if that trend remains, I'm aware of the recession, there's no means of using things, but if it lasts, it won't be good. And as for this number, the number hasn't increased since the percentage is the same. He grew because we solved significantly more cases of 75 thousand, for example, in the civil branch of the trial was solved these cases while earlier it was 72, 71, so the absolute number... percent increased. But I've said it one more time, and I'm going to repeat what you're pointing at, the percentage is one, but it's important what it says, which are the arguments, whether it's comprehensively said to the foreigners, that's why, and therefore, to make it clear and to make it professional. That's what we need to work on, it's education, it's control again, and certainly it's the work of second-degree courts and Supreme Court through their abolishing decisions that must be exactly better and referring. Because if we just end the case, and it happens in the second degree, and even at the Supreme Court, we probably have decisions that are kind of broken, then there's no use. So they must be we've exercised control of it you can see in some courts especially the commercial branch of the court, some judges bounced extremely with a percentage. If the percentage was, say, 15, 20% of the total court, he was 30 or 35 percent, so we went to see what the reason was.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112946	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Saboliæ, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112947	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, I would just a little look back at your findings, or it sounds amazing to me the information you presented in your report, which refers to professional training. So it's really amazing that such small amounts would be allocated for professional training. It just seems amazing, it looks nakaradic. Simply in a situation where there is now a whole judicial system, in a situation where we are all aware that justice and justice are fundamental human rights, not only constitutional but fundamental human rights and we know that an infinitely long period of time until we achieve this real human need. I don't think there's anything wrong with the system itself. So I would ask you if you might need to go to those solutions to introduce managers who are also foreseen by the law, managers who will manage because I simply believe that the right steps have certainly been provided with greater means of professional training. So my question is will the court's director be hired soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112948	The reply to the replica is respected Supreme Court President Branko Hrvatin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112949	Well, it's true what you said, I was in my report, and I mentioned the directors, or those court managers, and we didn't step back. The programs are over, we did it six years ago, and then it was still perfecting. However,... new employment, etc., it's an executive policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My proposal has always been clear that these very managers should be placed on large courts which will then include not only that one county court but also courts from that area, will best know the situation and it is... answers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The numbers I said in the money part I deliberately put in that part because they seem really shocking, but that's our reality. And I repeat again, if this continues for a long time, our exits won't be great. But the fact is, there's a judicial academy that also has training programs, and we said the same thing, so we went to the so-called. e-learning, so we leave the judge in his court, that through that e-network he tries to get a lesson and everything else, get materials. It works in a certain way but it's still small. So it's just a palitative solution but it's cheap and it doesn't have to be traveled, it doesn't have to be spent. We will certainly strive in negotiations with the ministry to point to that fact. I'm saying, I'm aware of another situation where we're in the economic situation and the state needs money for all sorts of things. And for a time we can be held in this way, but given the situation of entering the European Union, the need for education of precisely specialist education in these fields of need and travel if you want these courts to see this practice, the need to pay a subscription for some professional magazines and, of course, the education of judges to use the practice base of these two European courts here, we have made certain shifts with the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, which is really at our disposal and we get it to say a certain lesson and free of charge, but that is the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112950	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, so it was very interesting to listen to your report since you were freed from the political vow of silence regarding the budget and you basically spoke publicly for the first time that there was a reduction in the position of material costs in the state budget. And I'm asking you and all of us here a question, in the long run, watching whether this savings will cost us hundreds of times more than a few million kunas in terms of justice at material costs. Because without informing the judiciary, without informing the grantines, without greater efficiency of commercial courts, we can also have a very difficult time talking about creating a more favourable economic climate in the Republic of Croatia. So informing the state administration is a prerequisite for it to be more efficient and quality. And this non-critical budget cuts simply once again confirms that reducing the expenditure side of the state budget can come solely as a result of structural reforms and not telling someone today you will not buy 10, 15 or 20 computers and thus solve the problem. The problem will not be solved in the long term by looking at it that way. And since you mentioned the court in Velika Gorica. I think the Minister of Justice was offered a solution that can be very easy to resolve a year ago because there could practically be a complete judiciary sitting in Velika Gorica. Because, after all, you've said well yourself, there's a county court and it's also tried for serious crimes. Unfortunately, there may be a crime in front of the judge because of the trial... Obviously, however, no one is concerned about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112952	Nothing? Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica for now. The president will use the right to speak for five minutes in the debate. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112953	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Supreme Court President. The debate on the State of Justice Report may be a sort of test. Can anyone from the legislative authority be critical of the state of the judicial authority and will at the same time or after that be exposed to public criticism of interference in the independence and independence of a particular branch of government, especially if it is critical in its debate and rejects any findings issued by the President of the Supreme Court? 2007 Croatia had 256 courts, in 2014. 158, and this one's going to be 77. It's reform. We are implementing reforms in all sectors and in the judiciary we have made reforms. It might be interesting in 2-3 years if someone does an analysis of what these reforms have brought in financial terms, at the speed of the trial. Perhaps then the definition of a reasonable time limit is clear to someone, it is still unclear to me that in the Croatian judiciary it means a reasonable time-limit and especially in the quality of the trial, the number of abolished, revised or returned judgments to the lower court. When I mentioned the trial within a reasonable period of time, I would have a question from Mr. President of the Supreme Court, let's say what is a reasonable time-limit of trial in working disputes in Croatia or are courts, judges, you, someone taking a stand which is a reasonable time of trial in work disputes. For infringement of the trial within reasonable deadlines, the number of claims for damages or damages is increasing, but the amount of damages awarded falls significantly in '14. compared to the years before, but not because the requirements would be in decline, the number of requests, but because of that, which was also found yesterday by a state lawyer, the more often the courts reject such demands, the lower amounts are found to be explained that the courts are taking care of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, European courts do not worry about the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, so the amount of compensation awarded to citizens in front of European courts is growing and Croatia is falling. So they don't have that understanding. Respect for the deadlines. With the state's attorney's office, we've been cutting deadlines, courts rarely prescribed, and disobeying those deadlines for me is an unacceptable state of justice. This is practically when the prescribed deadlines which are an obscenity of justice are not respected, irresponsible, lack of control or lack of control are turned into the same independence of the judiciary and lead to an absurd situation that every criticism faces severe resistance, threats, interference in independence, even when it is discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, there is no corruption in the Croatian judiciary according to this report. I don't know if the Croatian judiciary has any programme or measures to fight corruption, whether anything under this plan has been done and whether within the system itself has located, revealed any problems from the title possible corruption in the Croatian judiciary, not what other bodies have discovered. The system within the Croatian judiciary. No mention of it in that report. And I conclude in the Croatian judiciary there is no corruption, there is no programme, there is no measure and there is no need for that. Are there great judges and courts in Croatia, good, bad, incompetent, corrupt? Also in the report, no mention of it, and I'm asking this because of those good and excellent judges, judges and courts. Is it possible that we do not give qualitative assessments except mere statistics, that we have excellent judges and judges and courts that are better than averages or any other or any other criticism, questioning or such emphasis would disrupt peace, non-critical relations, a line of less resistance and say all this is great and good, and no one is resented in the system or outside the system. From earlier years at the beginning of the year, 693 000 items were transferred, a new 761,000 which was a significant fall compared to the previous one, solved 847 000, which was a fall, unsettled at the end of 574 000. The number of judges in 1903, it is somewhere stagnation or slightly smaller and the average number of cases per judge 765 which also points to a decline in the number of cases per judge. Less new cases have partially saved statistics, especially in criminal courts where the number of cases solved is 42 in the first and 52% in the second degree. And it is interesting that, compared to other countries of Europe, we only give in the number of total cases of new arrivals, court hearings, lawsuits or lawsuits, but when it comes to such comparisons, there is nothing to compare with the average of the European Union. 8669 employees, 82% of women. It's been determined that people are missing, that I quote a significant number of unfulfilled places. It is found that a billion and 300 budgets are not enough. Based on last year's report when the Justice Minister was here on the criticism, he replied that this was not true, that the state had provided enough money for the judicial system. Let's get some quality. Penalty. Municipal courts have between 60 and 63% confirmed verdicts. Cancelled and probably returned to 22% retrial. 13.4 modified. Could we have this data compared to Finland, for example, Finland or the EU average of how many first-degree courts in Europe have confirmed rulings, abolished changes. This qualitative comparison with someone outside Croatia could either correct my assessment or correct the president's assessment of the Supreme Court. But there's no such comparison except a slow-moving need. Civilian branch confirmed 67.4%, changed 11.6 secondly to 2.7, abolished 15.3%. Cancelled and returned probably to a retrial. The President of the Supreme Court offered a final review and a course of action in 2015. I'd say when I read it, there's no hope that something more important would change, and first it would realize that the inflow of new objects was extremely high. I have not seen a plan to indicate or hear anything that would change the system more significantly in Croatia from the judicial system, something other countries are solving outside the judiciary, nor have there been any such indications. So the inflow of new objects will continue to be large. Second. He believes that the trend of the already significant reduction in the number of cases that remained in operation at the end of the calendar year is, I would say, that this trend is a minor rather than a significant reduction. Third. Continuing the trend of reduction in the number of cases which have been working for a long time are also a slight trend of decreases relative to the total number of such cases. Yesterday, the state's attorney set one example here that the court of second instance abolished the court's decision in the first degree after nine years of adoption. Last year, in my debate, I set an example of a case where seven years of court did not perform any of the official requests of the court. For seven years, the subject stood without making a decision. And not 10 years ago, but now. And both of the examples I've given are the latest, they've recently happened. The fourth final review and course of action is the most dangerous thing for me. Budget funds remain at the same level in 2013, the material equipment of courts, information and communication technology does not exist without providing additional resources to improve more significantly. I conclude from this that the sustainability of the system is at stake if the amount of funds is at the level of next year. And given that the resolution minister twice in the Assembly said that the money provided for by the judiciary is considered sufficient and if that happens again in the budget for next year I ask who will resign? Because all of us together to realize that neither the State's Attorney's Office is provided with enough money, so that we all together realize that there is not enough money provided for the judiciary and that nothing happens behind that and that again in the budget for next year is irresponsible behaviour and executive and legislative authorities. But then I expect either the Minister of Resorship or the first people, the leaders of the judiciary to resign and not accept that duty under conditions under which they cannot fulfil the law of the prescribed task. And that's the only obvious thing that's going to run things. In Croatia, all often call for reforms, there are too many government employees, too many public administration employees. This should be radically reformed, it should be radically reduced. When we reach the resort from the resort to the resort, then we are warned that we have actually demoted and staff devastation due to finance, technologically due to finances, and especially educational learning, advancement and training for financial purposes. It's as if someone cares that it's more important not to fix it, and the shifts that have been made are because of those categories that would be placed in good and excellent courts and judges that no one ever points out, which no one ever points out and we can't possibly know that qualitative grade. I express the following, there are cases Mr. President of the Supreme Court where the Supreme Court has not even been celebrated. One such decision is made by the Supreme Court on the foreign exchange clause and variable interest rates. If the Supreme Court is not in the interest of the citizens of this country and makes citizens exercise their right to file hundreds of thousands of individual lawsuits against banks that have acted against the law because you have only scratched the surface and do not wish to enter into the essence of the problem that has arisen in that case, then neither has the Supreme Court fulfilled the task of being in the function of justice for the citizens. Obviously, justice remains only for the financial sector, lobbys, banks that are clearly stronger than the citizens themselves in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112954	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112955	My dear colleague, Lesar, did you ask in your presentation what the reforms have brought? Well, at this point, it seems to me that we do not yet have as the Supreme Court President has said, but what we see so far is that the next report of the Honorable Supreme Court President may have some reflections on what they have brought us with these reforms. When you talk about the quality and efficiency of the judiciary, then I think this moment of reforms that we've been bit into without money will bring us lags, will bring us greater quality. I'm afraid we're biting into a tough nut and now we're getting a toothful of that bite 'cause when you look at it, for example. Only The City of Zagreb was separated by two courts, judges from the Municipal Civil Court went to Novi Zagreb to court, took the cases with them and worked them there in New Zagreb and the jurisdiction remained in the Municipal Civil Court. That, when you talk about damages, when you talk about the virtual damage that seems to the citizens, I'm afraid that's how it's going to be done. Then another absurd, we are doing the whole reform to ensure the efficiency of the citizens. You can get a land-book excerpt at the grantovnica in Zagreb for Split, for Dubrovnik, for any other part of the country. But you can't win for New Zagreb. How is that possible? Also in New Zagreb today, try to extract the extract for the centre of Zagreb, but you must go to Zagreb's grantovnica. These are the absurdities that have brought us chaos in the reform that we have all voted so heartily without asking if we have any money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112956	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112957	That's right, fellow Skarre-Ozbolt. In Croatia, under the terms of reforms, it is only that something must be saved and qualitative shifts in the organisational sense, professional, human resources do not require any money. That's what we do in the judiciary, that's what we do in health care, that's what we do in education. I guess under pressure I don't know who and the wrong messages we keep sending, now that reform's gonna cost a little less. If reform isn't about quality, then what's it for? And that's why I said from this report and the final findings of the Supreme Court President, the money that the state has given to the judiciary is not enough to preserve the system. It's not far, for a few months, to the budget for next year. At that moment, on the day when Parliament adopts the budget for the next year, the amount of funds for the judiciary if it remains at the same level, we will only be able to figure out a year after year we have a problem in the entire system from the obvious police, the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK to the judiciary are bad results because we do not financially follow them. And that is why I believe that if these reports have any function and if these reports are discussed by the Parliament and we do not move beyond that to hear these warnings then we become co-responsible or I would even say responsible even if we are not in a position to adjust the state budget. We can only accept it or refuse it because the opposition amendments in the Assembly have never accepted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112958	The esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker, is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112959	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lesar was not once told here to the legislators of the law which is the fiscal effect of this law. So, we at the Justice Department got a string of so-called. reform laws without the necessary means. And now that you're listening to the Supreme Court president's report, then you get the feeling that we live in two different states. One assessment and an evaluation of the Minister of Resorship, and the second evaluation of the head is practically the Croatian judiciary when we look at this sort of hierarchical though he doesn't have any executive orders to do so. And now one fundamental question is whether reform is just to write a reform or someone has to say that something costs so much and so much if we want to have it, that and that. So at this point, the Republic of Croatia has only 17% of real estate owners who are listed through the OIB. So 83% of the owners are not identified through the OIB, and many of them are not identified by JMBG either. And when you translate that into an economic picture, then I'm very clear on what kind of problems private and investors, so corporations and companies, are in the moment that in certain areas, especially in the region of Dalmatia, they want to invest and do something. The second thing, when we talk about the state administration, this is a convenient opportunity to say that out of 65 thousand civil servants, the real government service is only 8.5 thousand people. Because the judiciary is in a certain way isolated, the IRS and the Customs Administration also have a practically certain number of employees, the police and the military, and then we can't say that on these 8.5 grand we can make a more significant savings. We need to talk segment by segment, so point the arrow where we need to go, and we obviously don't, but the easiest thing to say is let's reform the state administration. And then after that we talk Let me just finish my sentence, please. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] The judiciary is independent and we must not touch them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112960	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112961	Every draft law that is a godlike reform bill that comes to the Croatian Parliament and says that for its implementation there is no need to provide additional budgetary resources is a hoax, a fraud against the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which is a minor problem, it is a devastation of a particular system of state administration which was visible yesterday when Mr Cvitan was here, which is visible today when Mr. Hrvatin is here. And on these examples, when we enter segment by segment to debate, we see that these pressures for reform moves that do not follow themselves the amount of money needed to gain quality always and as a consequence bring not only an unquality but a poor state. And the judiciary is currently existing because, as in the system of the state's attorney, there are a number of great individuals, we can't find out at least by the courts where they are, who are dealing with these problems. Unfortunately, he is being smuggled and what I think from a professional point of view would be sufficient to lustrate from the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112962	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. Now it is the club of Independent Leftists and the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112963	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have heard here countless times that the judiciary is a cancer wound. In my opinion, the judiciary is the weakest link of Croatian society as a whole. There are more arguments for that claim. So I have one proposal, we were listening here yesterday to Mr. Cvitan's report, today we are listening to the report by the President of the Supreme Court, reading, preparing for this debate, I was able to read the opinions of many judges who disagree with the work of the ministry and the government, disagree with the stampede as they say the laws passed in the Croatian Parliament, they are dissatisfied with the preparations being carried out, meaning the prosecution, or the DORH. The DORH is not happy with the judiciary, with the courts and judges, wouldn't it be good to listen here in the Assembly to a united debate on the state's attorney's report, a report by the president of the Supreme Court who doesn't listen very much to him, and to sit here with us and the minister of justice. So let's discuss all the problems that bother you and mean courts and judges, prosecutors, and what does the minister think about that? It would be the beginning, some kind of background for reforming the justice system that wasn't there. Because what we had and what's said to be reform laws, that we've made a reform in the organisation of the judiciary, this is pure cosmetics. The point in the judiciary hasn't changed. It's not just the perception of citizens that matters whether the judiciary is good or the judiciary is bad. Examples from the judiciary, in which many politicians always argue, and especially judges that individual cases are not to be discussed, I will ask one more question and why can't they be discussed? Who's under the glass bell that can't be debated and why? Are judges such weak plants that they react to each sentence and that their judgment depends on what a parliamentary representative or politician will say, but therefore judges can deal with day-to-day politics and teach politicians lessons. So I don't blame judges when they're involved in politics, but I resent them when they're political decisions based on a political worldview rather than on justice. So let's unite the hearings of the DORH, the courts with the minister's presence. We'll come to some conclusions. Let's start talking straight about what DORH resents courts? We heard a specific example yesterday. Today we're listening to the President of the Court, the Supreme Court, why separately? Let's do a joint session where we're going to get some results, but not to speak Ezopian, but to speak frankly, and to say what, which is why many judgments fall? They say because the DORH misprepared, because the USKOK doesn't do its job, while on the other hand the DORH people say we did everything, but the judges are the ones who amnested the criminals, so let's see who's right, who's wrong, maybe we'll come to some conclusion because this government didn't do what it was supposed to do, and that's judicial reform. But there's no judicial reform unless it's cleaned up in the ranks of the judges themselves. I had a chance to read, I think you have all the opportunities to read, getting ready for this debate, had judges recently at sea their meeting, the Association of Judges and at that Association of Judges has actually dropped criticism on everything except their own mistakes, so the judges are satisfied with the trial, but they are not satisfied with the preparation of how the DORH does its job and are dissatisfied with the general climate and perception of citizens about courts. However, they are not satisfied that the court proceedings in Croatia last twice as long as they last in EU countries, which is not satisfied. Watch your perception, even Mr. Sessa said that or I don't know if you Mr. Hrvatin said that we're not looking at the fact that the judges are well-intentioned. So is it well-intentioned to make court proceedings more difficult, is it well-intentioned all this happening in the judiciary? Who will believe more after the Bandic case that there is justice, not condemning Mr Bandic? Who will trust the judges and courts in which there are excellent judges, excellent courts, but what needs to be resolved to move at their door is most important to judges when different judges for the same cases make different judgments? Who's gonna trust the judges when the work dispute lasts for 10 years? For 10 years, the work dispute lasts without any punishment. Once again, I said I'd report it to the DORH judge who's doing it, 21 years of desert debate. They've cleared everything he's got, the judge has no time, he's been on sick leave for a year. 21 years old, so that's what everybody's going to be resigning who's in the lead. There's nothing more to discuss for 21 years, now there's no one to cover court costs. It's something amazing that's going on. When two authorities fail, it means when the legislative authority says, when the executive authority is scheduled, to whom are the citizens addressed, that's what I was saying last year, for help? Fate power. By its very essence, by its own definition, it is not, it should be the most righteous, the most moral, the most ethical. When in society everything is scheduled for citizens to address the last truth, which is to the judges who need to correct the injustice that has happened. Many examples prove that this is not the case. Many trade courts are trade courts. When you ask foreign investors what bothers them most in Croatia, which is why they do not invest in Croatia, many researches have done. In the first place, the first two occupy the tax system, the insecure tax system and the second is the uncertainty of the Croatian judiciary. You never know when you enter a courtroom with what result, there's no certainty as far as justice is on your side, there's no security. Well, I often hear a sentence made by smart people, that foreigners in Croatia need no more visas to enter our country, but they need to be charged a ticket because here in Croatia and when it comes to justice, there are more miracles than in Disneyland. And that's right. You have those judgments where you can make amends and tell people if it's possible? What I said yesterday and Mr. Cvitan's state attorney and what I was saying last year, and when it comes to President of the Supreme Court's report, we seem to be living in parallel worlds. I don't feel like the one who has the President of the Court, and they don't even have citizens. Fortunately for me, my feeling matches or my perception with the perception of most citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I have to agree with one, in a country where there's so much state space, the surplus of DUDI doesn't know where to go with that space and DORH and the courts with lack of space. It's impossible for judges to work on computers from 2004 and now we're talking about e-records. So which computers will they work on? What programs support these computers? But at the same time, Mr. Zmajlovic can move into pompous spaces, while many agencies have very much extra space. Millions of dollars a year are given to rent that space but for DORH and for courts there is no room. There's no computer for DORH and the courts. Why? Well, that's what someone would say don't believe in conspiracy, why it's not done. If the computers from 2004, 2008 were already to be new, there should have been new programmes. It's like the state says let's throw a Stigma at them at the DORH and the courts, they won't do their job, we won't give them space, we won't give them money to fill up the personnel, but we'll blame them for everything. And that's how it works out. It is not true that Croatia does not have enough money to equip the State's Attorney's Office, it is not true because this State's Attorney's Office will be returned as much as possible to the money that has been stolen from Croatia, the more courts are doing their job, the more money will be returned to Croatia. Now I'm talking about that organized corruption crime, I'm not talking about civil litigation. Therefore, not everything is on the judges, but before the President of the Supreme Court can ask society to do everything in the judicial organisation itself, to introduce among the judges what should be, what judges should be because citizens turn to judges when they all slam their doors and remain alone with the injustice that is a great wall for them. Many have been destroyed because of bad judgments. In democratic societies, judges are certainly highly appreciated, and they are subject to specific rules of conduct. They should be moral verticals, I don't have that feeling for a good part of the judges. So, like yesterday, we have one statistic that I believe in the figures that you said, but that statistics does not talk about the essence of the judiciary in Croatia. And I repeat as much as you disagree with me, as much as Mr... With these claims, citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this state exists, courts exist, the DORH exists because of them and not because of the courts themselves and the state's lawyers themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112964	Replica colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112965	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said you don't mind judges if they deal with political activity, that's nice. However, he resents the Law on Courts. The Law states in Article 90 that the judge must not be a member of a political party or engage in political activity and that, of course, the law requires impartiality and independence. Because if the judge publicly deals with political activity and publicly expresses his political views, or political views, then, of course, a part of the citizens may raise doubts about impartiality and independence. And that's a fact and I agree with you, we would have to, regardless of what someone might understand or interpret as a pressure on judges and courts to discuss very openly what you also pointed out, and this is a uniformity of actually court practice and how in identical cases, virtually different or diametrically opposite judgments are made. However, here I see another problem related to some recent decisions and the Constitutional Court, therefore, it should also be put in the context of the debate on the work of the courts. The Constitutional Court recently, as we know, abolished the verdict, and not just any court, but the Supreme Court in one case that stood there in 2010, so in 2010, the Supreme Court made a decision in one case, and then here it was at the beginning of this year that the Constitutional Court abolished that verdict, which brought it back to the Supreme Court's retrial. What kind of message is that, therefore, we are talking about credibility in the interpretation between citizens and the Supreme Court as the highest instance, and I see the problem here as well. So there's an object waiting so long in a drawer in the Constitutional Court. I'm afraid there'll be more cases like that. So that's the same thing we have to open up and talk about in the open.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112966	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112967	When I was talking about judges not to mind when they talk, I thought when they talk about politics, when they talk about politicians, we talk about judges. I don't think I can get involved in party work, that I can root for parties like some do, the President of the County Court in Zagreb does it openly, I think even know what function he will have if his party wins. I don't blame judges when they talk about politicians,...... More moral than you, anyway. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I don't blame them because we can't be under a glass bell and we're not, thank God, and they can't be, they can't be under a glass bell. Because that's what doesn't discuss their judgments because what, because they're all good because they're genius. Their decisions are all good, so I can't question myself. I think I can reconsider, of course, that judges can't deal with day-to-day politics but they can express their opinions but not in the way some do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112968	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112969	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I fully agree with you when you said that the weakest link in Croatian society is the Croatian judiciary. We could even agree with the conclusion that the Croatian judiciary is a cancer wound in Croatian society but it seems that we treat it as any frightened patient who has not received a diagnosis yet and then flees from a doctor in order not to get that knowledge of the severity of his illness. I want to say that I agree with you when you said, from all the reports, we all conclude from all the discussions that the problem is the Croatian judiciary, that the obstacle to the development of Croatian society is, but we have not once sat down together and discussed it. There is no way out of this situation until all three branches of government sit and discuss and agree which is the fastest and most efficient model and way out of this situation in which the Croatian judiciary is located. Of course, it is not possible or at least according to the current Rules of Procedure it is not possible in plenary discussions but it does not happen on committees either. On boards, we should listen to representatives of all three branches of government because without their cooperation, there is no solution. However, other factors should be heard, these are people from the professional and scientific public. That is why I agree with you about this fact that you said you should sit here, that is, when a minister of justice is being discussed, as well as the people of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112970	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112971	Dear fellow Sabolić, we should have a thematic session, let's say the thematic session, and the introduction to the thematic session could certainly be reports. This is where you actually do business in that bad sense of the word. The President of the Supreme Court does his job, not in a bad sense of the word now, but in a good sense of the word, you do what the law says. However, there is no behind it, there is no dialogue in it. We say ours, and dialogue can be between the three authorities like you said. That doesn't mean we're proposing that those boundaries disappear between the three authorities. Simply without participating in reforms and legislation, executive power cannot be helped by the judicial authority, and the judicial authority should not be left alone. Fate power needs help and what I said, it would be good to see what inside that fateful authority means in those segments which is not good. Because we heard some grudges yesterday, and we hear every day and we read about these grudges that DORH resents the courts, which the courts resent the DORH. Well then you say you can't press charges because the investigations aren't well done, or the indictment has fallen for it and that and to see what's in some replicas and talk about, let's see how to reward good judges and how to punish bad judges. Why all judges have to be judges for life I wonder why all judges have to be, why one profession has to be like that, maybe there's a reason but we need to clarify it, we need to agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112972	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112973	My colleague, unfortunately, is right when you say that some judgments cause surprise. Indeed, some would not endure a test of logic, let alone a test of legality. And we really need to reintroduce it for the protection of the judicial profession because it's until '97. the years in our criminal law and there was a criminal offence against the law by the judge. I agree with you that a judicial profession isn't like any other, it's a call, it's a way of life. Judges must indeed be priests of justice and the right to an independent and professional judge has every citizen. This is Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. And indeed, what's worth to a man if 90% of judges are honest, educated, qualified, he's attracted to one who's not like that. So we can't talk about the conclusion of the judicial reform until every judge is like that, and that's why it's the only legal profession that needs to be taken care of because it's exactly what they're asking to decide who they're going to receive, who they're going to promote and who they're going to exclude from their ranks. And what the President of the Supreme Court with joy today I would say should be accepted, which is that the Supreme Court can do or judges can work overtime, and this was introduced by the Slovenians in 2000. We've had one project by Hercules to allow good judges who achieve the norm to make extra profits to get rid of these pending cases. At that time, however, the association of judges was against the then-president of the court, and it prevented it. Therefore, those from the Association of Judges who cover certain things do not do well and do not like their profession because they themselves are invited to remove the bastards from their own ranks or simply tell them that they cannot meet the high standards required of them both by the Constitution and by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112974	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112975	Dear colleagues of Anticevic-Marinović, I mentioned before the session of judges they had 15 days or a month ago or perhaps more, which Mr. Sesa told, the president of the Association of Judges that the judges were victims. Now imagine those who have been having disputes for years that they will say what they are, whose victims are the judges of the victims and whose citizens are the victims. The image of the judge as we imagine it should be, the image of the judge is real as it is, and I really think that the subpoena is a sublime call, that these are people who should be standing in front of the wall so that it should be those who bring back hope, who will judge by justice and who will ennoble society. But you know very well that it is impossible for lawyers to talk to judges outside, and I often see that judges are in the rooms or not to say in the pubs or hang out with people with whom decent people are not allowed to hang out, let alone the judges, and that is, the fact that we take our hand. That doesn't mean I repeat it all again and that doesn't mean that everyone who works to work in a way that shouldn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112976	On behalf of the club of independent agents colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112977	Madam Vice President, Mr. Supreme Court President. Yes, Mrs Sabolic said earlier, I will paraphrasise her, that one of the weakest links of Croatian society is the Croatian judiciary and I think I correctly quoted you, not paraphrased you. Now, if the Croatian judiciary is one of the weakest links of Croatian society, I don't know, but I know that in a country where we say this house adopts 200, 300 a year, and there was a time and a half of 400 laws, no one can manage, and neither can Croatian judges. And that's a serious problem for Croatian society, that indignity that ends with one inaction, for example, which Mr Cvitan called in yesterday's debate. He referred to the Code of Criminal Procedure, called for deadlines. He's about to appeal, so we can't handle those legal deadlines, he's almost godfather, he's praying, you do something. And then what do you say that DORH does? Don't do anything. I agree the same with what my predecessors said, that the judges should somehow be pulled under the glass bell. And just before, we heard from the President of the Supreme Court, the poor thing that we had a chance to listen to on the DORH report. We don't have enough people, we don't have a trainee, I don't know the offices, cars, squares, computers, money, and I keep asking myself if there's even a will to actually live the rule of law in this country, and that justice is equal to everyone. What should be the most honorable in Croatia is politics, even if we can put a large, large questionnaire and a normal judiciary on it. But we can also put a large questionnaire on that as well as on Croatian politicians. If someone should start in this society, they should be Croatian judges. If someone's status should be constantly questioned, it is the status of Croatian judges. Judges can't, no matter how autonomous they are, be treated like people who came from another planet. The first thing judges would have to do, first it means to put their property cards on the Internet. It's contitio son qua non trust in the judiciary. The other thing we should do is deprive ourselves of the fee. What is not allowed in politics cannot be allowed in a court of law. I think here, for example, about what might be the most banal, and I'll talk about it more. Let's just say the fees for working at the State Judiciary Council, I don't know, 3000 kuna. Let the extra reward be rewarded and let the judge make extra money, but don't take fees from the side. I can't understand that our judges have to grow old, but then these property cards can't be published. On the other hand, I dare say that the most wealthy budget users with the highest assets do not count on local executive power, the local government. They're judges. And that's just the truth. What little opportunities we have to follow can be seen for what I'm saying. Not all of them, some of them are. What we couldn't, for example, believe at the time of the trial of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, is how much money the Croatian Chamber of Commerce directed towards some judges. According to some 200, 300, 400 thousand kuna. I don't know if in two years or in a year. Can the judges be right about this? Could I have the right to these fees, whether it was just one good investment on the other. We can see that nothing's happening. And how many such investments can be in this country in the Croatian judiciary. I repeat the most honorable place in this society must be judicial. The largest place that must be under someone's increase must also be judicial. It's the judge who decides on someone's guilt, someone's freedom, prison, future, existence, his name. It's not just his family. It's his family. The judge's responsibility is enormous. It's better that he's guilty, I'll always say he's free, than he's innocent in prison. Responsibilities for the wrong court decisions, she's gone. And that's clear and we have these wrong decisions all the time. And that's what's happening. Often even second-degree courts, often even here or recently the Supreme Court. A guilty verdict can destroy simply a man. On the other hand, in this broken country with no money, no one can simply fight justice in front of our court. These people are literally sentenced to one silent euthanasia. How do you handle money-free disputes in a country of bankrupt citizenship? It's fortunate that more and more, excuse me, more lawyers are running disputes pro bono. Normally, everyone will laugh at that claim and no one will believe me just as I don't trust these lawyers to have such altruists in this country who, without compensation, would represent someone in the most complex litigation that distracts them from other cases for two, three, maybe five or more years. In this country justice costs, in this country the court costs. It used to be absolutely different. The judiciary was free, the notebook was gone, the school was free, the health care was free. Today it's all costing. Because health care was free, the rest were those beautiful, beautiful, beautiful customs, human customs, so we were raised to bring a doctor a candy cane, in a larger operation a prosciutto. Okay. I don't mind. There's no such thing in the west. But that's not problem number one. The problem is if there are also people among the judges who are prone to it. It's easy for one candy or one prosciutto. It's easy for one to do it. A whole series of judgments have been viewed on the side of a difficult to figure out or better to understand. Today I read in one of our newspapers that the verdict of General Krulc has been annulled. A similar situation was the former defence minister. The same situation was the former, I don't know the Minister of Tourism, etc. etc. I don't want to talk about it, but if someone else were in their position, those people would literally be destroyed. I would like to appeal here, among other things, to two judgments of the Court of Justice in Kutina, or Varazdin, concerning these famous Raiffeisen savings, cooperatives or what I call a vacuum cleaner. I have an example here, we're all talking about Swiss, and look what they're doing. Mrs. Bozica, not to mention last name, took 12 530 euros in loans in 2008. So far, she has paid 50,000 euros and still owes 32,721 euros. They sell her real estate, etc., etc. I just want to say that if the Swiss are injustice, and they are injustice, then these loans are Raiffeisen's sine square. I really ask that through some authentic interpretation or do not know what the Supreme Court determines how to handle these cases. If, on the subject of Swiss CNB and the Government, let's say they didn't do enough, and now something has started to change, in terms of these Raiffeisen loans to the CNB, the former president's office, I don't know, I don't know, have an open pact with creditors at the expense of Croatian citizens, or Croatian states. Exports in Swiss or rather those credits in Swiss were illegal. That's what the courts have established. But these Raiffeisen cooperatives are absolutely illegal because they were awarded by cooperatives that were not at all registered for these types of business in the Republic of Croatia and no one to deal with these issues so far. We've got a whole series of tables here, I'm just going to do a few simple apostrophes. Page 15, budget revenues from courts. So 2009 billion and 445 million kuna, 2013 billion and 248 million kuna. So the budget of our courts is -197%. Huge savings, normally, perhaps the efficiency of individual decisions. That's - 17, 18%. It's almost one-fifth or let it be, yes, it's one-fifth of the funds or one-sixth. Who can just take it? Well, I can't even handle Croatian courts. On page 10, just to find out, here is a table number of employees at a certain, indefinite time in 2014. So it's said that on an indefinite 6178, a certain 588 person, a total of 6766. That for municipal courts means that 4039, 809 county courts, 1068 infringing courts, 535 in trade, 71 administrative courts, etc., etc. By the Supreme Court of 67. On page 11, it is said that in 2014, out of the total of 1903 judicial officials, women were 1319 or a total of 76%, women were 87%, in total 82%. I don't mind. And as to the burden of judges on cases per branch of law for 2014 per judge means in criminal cases it was accepted by judge 182 cases, in civil 447, in administrative 272, in trade 262, in a criminal 550, and now should be shared with the number of those judges, so they would simply come up with data on their real burden. What I'm interested in, though, is more a matter of politics, it's more a matter of Parliament than judges, what do our judges think of a new territorial structure? From the budget, it could now be concluded that this structure costs less, according to the number of cases, that the courts are even more up-to-date now, but I personally believe that the best structure that we had was territorial, and therefore the court is the one that was in part until '93. where municipal courts in some way corresponded with the then congregations of the municipalities. It seems to me that it was the best device. Not to mention that part of the case was transferred to the notebooks, right then we didn't have that age or this number of commercial courts, but that we had about 600 thousand employees more, though in some joint work as we called it. And I agree that Croatia should have changed something when it comes to legal structure as it is now needed or mature for a territorial redesign. The redesign was lagging behind, but I think at some point in time, we were playing with the Croatian judiciary. That's why the best staffs may have gone from the Croatian judiciary to the lawyers. All of which is interesting is the data on page 99 of this report on a delegation of individual cases, and so we see which one is actually the number here. What got me into the eye that the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb left to the Municipal Court in Labin 400 executive cases, then the Zagreb Court in Pazin also 400 cases, and the Zagreb court in Poreč 150, the Zagreb court in bujskim about 250 cases. And it is also interesting that the Municipal Court in Poreč when it comes to criminal cases of the Municipal Court in Pazin 321, the one in Rovinj Municipal Court in Pula 84 cases etc. All in all an interesting report, absolutely there will be no one who will probably not support it, but that it is necessary to speak openly in what has been heard all day at the Croatian Parliament's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112978	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112979	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and dear Mr. Supreme Court President, listening to distinguished colleagues who spoke before me, I had to correct the introduction to this exhibition. I'm going to start with something I heard a half hour ago and say there's really statistics ahead of us. That we have statistics ahead of us, we have a set of specific data that unlike the attitude of colleagues who spoke before me very much about the judiciary and the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the data set, we have a whole series of observations presented by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We can agree with them, we don't have to agree with them, but these observations have been made for the purpose, in good interest to improve the situation in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Is the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia in great shape? It's not. Is he in good shape? Probably not that either. But the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia is not in as bad a state as it keeps trying to show up. The judiciary in the Republic of Croatia today is no longer the cancer of the Croatian society. There are problems, but these problems are constantly solved, they are continuously resolved on the basis of the rules adopted by this home, based on the work of the Justice Department but, above all, based on the work of hardworking judges who sometimes, as a lawyer and I have witnessed it in really inhuman and inhumane terms, are doing their job. If there are mistakes, there are mistakes, there are mistakes, but when you have a procedure, say, a litigator in it you always have two sides, at least two sides. One party claims and the other party claims b. The Court must rule in such a situation. And each time they will have at least one side that is not satisfied with the decision that the court has made. We must be aware that when someone claims that the verdict is illegal, that the verdict is bad, that it often does so for the simple reason that the verdict was not in his favor. Anyone who's ever done justice-related jobs knows that's how it is and knows the reasons. Now, in previous discussions there has been another thesis that I cannot accept, and that is the the the thesis to talk about specific subjects. And the question arises, so why is the talk of specific items forbidden? I'll try to answer that question, and the answer is very simple. The answer is why the discussion of specific subjects is prohibited from a little matter called the division of power. In the Croatian case, the government's trinity. And this is a matter that divides power into a judicial, legislative and executive and each one of these authorities has its task. The task of the judicial authority is to judge in concrete cases under the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Every debate on an individual case wanted me to admit it or not to be a pressure because it can create a different decision on a specific case with a person who should be tried and it is an impartial judge. And any such pressure is forbidden because it violates what I was talking about earlier, which is the trio of power. Now, I'm going to try to talk about something we should talk about today, but from the discussion of colleagues who spoke before me, I've heard very little about it, and this is the report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to thank the President for making a correction to the report, i.e. by accepting the suggestions that we gave at the Justice Committee session and pointing to certain technical mistakes which, unlike the views I had heard earlier, shows that they are still using something. Now, what's the most important thing we can see from this report? That's two data. The first information is on the state of the pending items. With nearly 700 thousand pending cases in the Republic of Croatia, it has been reduced in a year to less than 600 thousand, specifically to 574 783 items. That means the case is 17% less in a year. If you ask me, it's a very good result. However, the reduction in the case, the pardon of pending cases at the end of the year, is primarily a reduced inflow of the case. In a year, the object was 150, or even more than 150,000 less. What caused this reduction in the inflow of objects? First of all, because of certain reforms. The first of them may be the most important in this context is the reform of breaking legislation. I'll remind you a few years ago, we've changed the law and we've made it possible to do things that have existed in criminal law for years, and that's a milder punishment for those who confess to committing the offence, or who, on the spot, and later, by reform and within a few days after the offence, agree to pay the fine themselves. What's the result? The result is that criminal proceedings show good, I would say even excellent tendencies and the number of pending cases per court judge has been reduced from 413 to 240 pending cases in court. This means that due to the reduced inflow of the number of cases, judges can solve those infringements that have often ended up in antiquity, and our breaking legislation is becoming more and more up-to-date. The next result is that the infringement trial will reduce the number of judges who will then be able to be deployed to other cases or to other branches of the trial, such as criminal trial, and thus allow for further up-to-date settlement of the case and in these proceedings. As far as criminal trials are concerned, there are still certain problems that we referred to at the board's meeting and we will point out again here today, which is the fact that although the reduction in the inflow of cases is increasing the number of pending cases in criminal courts, I think further attention should be paid to that. The president also explained at the board's meeting the reasons for this, part of the reason why it can be accepted, and part of the problem I believe will also be resolved through what I was talking about earlier, which is to transfer a number of judges from violations to criminal proceedings. Furthermore, we have civil proceedings and here we see a certain positive tendency primarily expressed in the fact that the inflow of objects is reduced. The number of cases in the case has also been reduced from 1,059 to 949 cases showing a reduction in the pressure or burden of judges by more than 10%. However, here I must point out that, first of all, it is about executive cases, i.e. the reduction of the inflow caused by certain reforms in the area of executive legislation. As far as civil cases are concerned, it should again be pointed out that the second-degree cases despite the legal changes show that in a certain number of abolished judgments are growing in both absolute and relative numbers, and the fact that we all wish that things would be resolved as quickly as possible or that we would minimise the number of abolished cases returning to the re-trial. In trade disputes, there is a great burden of judges to which we will have to pay further attention. The branch of one trial, which may have been the biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary, although it was not so public, was certainly an administrative trial. I will remind you recently we had a first-degree administrative trial where there was only one administrative court in Zagreb, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which in unpublic written proceedings dealt with complaints of second-degrees in the rule of second-degree decisions of the administrative bodies. The court's decisions waited 3, 4 years to be sent and waited in 3, 4 years for you to be surprised by the envelope in which the verdict was rarely held when it could meet some of the standards we seek from the court's rulings. However, there has been a change, a two-stage administrative trial has been introduced, the High Administrative Court in Zagreb has drastically reduced the number of delays that will ensure that new cases are dealt with very quickly in the complaints, and first-degree administrative courts have faced the fact that they are yet to be formed, that we are getting used to the new way in which the cases are resolved and, of course, there has been a large inflow of these cases that have put a considerable burden on the work of these courts. However, the number of cases solved shows that we will soon reach a level of urgency where cases and first-degree administrative courts will be resolved more or less as they arrive, and given the reduction in the burden of the High Administrative Court and the second-degree cases will be dealt with fairly quickly, showing that we have achieved excellent measures with legal reform and with the work of hardworking judicial officials in the field of administrative trial. Now, here I will conclude on the speech on certain parts of this report and I will say that we absolutely welcome the fact that the President of the Supreme Court has made certain proposals and specific suggestions so that the regulations governing the work of the judiciary can be amended. We are aware that there is one in Croatia, so we can call it legislative optimism that leads to sometimes too often changing regulations. These regulations are not the only ones that regulate the work of courts, however, these regulations are much more often those rules that these courts should apply and the fact is that in this segment we as a legislator are not exactly helping our courts and our judicial officials. In this context, we certainly need to consider all the observations that have been made and see how we can improve our work and then the work of those to whom our laws apply. However, in terms of material problems, that, as I have already mentioned, these material problems in the work of the courts exist, but it is also a fact that when we look at certain amounts that are allocated to the work of the courts in Croatia and when these amounts are placed in the reality of Croatia's GDP and Croatian budgets, or Croatian budgets, it is evident that they are not drastically deviating from the European average. It is possible to talk about whether these amounts are being allocated rationally, and it is absolutely necessary to talk about it, but when we talk about the total resources allocated to the work of the judiciary, we need to be aware of the time and conditions in which we live. In short, we in the SDP welcome the fact that we have been discussing the state of justice here for the second year. We hope that the colleagues who will also debate after us today will succeed from the debate on a particular case and concentrate on what is really important, which is the situation in the judiciary as a whole. And this report that is before us, we point out that we will accept the report that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112980	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112981	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned a really small matter to your colleague,... small things about the Constitution and constitutional values, and as far as the government is concerned, indeed the trio of the government is forgotten very often in Croatia. However, the government's trio means, you mentioned in the context of the inability to comment on judgments, or on the work of courts, however, it certainly is true that the opposite is true. So the government's trio means that no branch of government in any other branch of government gets involved in business. But I believe that you agree, as far as the verdicts of the final and powerful verdict are concerned, we can comment, however, first-degree politicians should not comment as well as the processes. However, it would not be good for politicians to comment, but it often does. And yesterday, in the debate on the work of the State Attorney's Office, I also noted that very often different processes, opening investigations, pressing charges, and then first-degree verdicts, etc., are commented as political actions, political judgments, political indictments, etc. That is one of the problems and that, I agree with you can be a kind of pressure on the work and repressive apparatus, but certainly on the work of the courts. But it is also certain that judges cannot comment equally on the work of politicians in both executive and legislative power. And that's something that belongs in that context. So I think that very often in the Croatian Parliament we should remind ourselves of what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because many people do forget it on purpose or on purpose sometimes. So the government's trinity is yes, but we are all dependent on one thing together and that is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the interest of Croatian citizens and citizens and in their interest is a quick, fair and uniform trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112982	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112983	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, esteemed fellow Kosor, I'm not going to say that you're absolutely right, I'm going to say that you're somewhat right, because I don't think it's just that some people forget, but some people don't even know what a trio is, so that's often the reason for their performance. But in the segment where you talk about commenting and meddling in work, you're absolutely right. Of course, of course, someone who chose a judicial duty agreed to be subject to certain rules. Just as we set up politicians agreed to apply certain rules to us and, for example, we talked a lot about when we talked about rules concerning preventing conflicts of interest, publishing property cards, etc. But one of these rules is that we must not comment on the actions that are under way, exactly what you said. Not just first-degree judgments, you're right, and the very way of conducting the procedure, etc.. We can get along intimately or disagree, but we have to wait for a regular legal path to be exhausted so that we can present their judgment. And then when a final court ruling is passed, we need to get to know each other and we have a right to comment on it. And then based on that and possibly intervene. So if we see that there is a particular case law that we are not satisfied with or that we believe is not fully in line with the law, then our obligation as a legislator is to intervene. And this is not something that only happens in Croatia, from the European Union where the laws are changed on the basis of decisions of the European Court of Justice to the United States where sometimes the presidents dissatisfied with the Supreme Court's decisions have proposed new laws to prevent that from happening again. But they never, ever intervened and interfered in the process itself. That's what we have to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112984	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112985	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are from clubs that have already spoken or their representatives heard a lot of things and it is difficult to mediate but I will try to say something original or original whatever you want to say about the report of the Supreme Court of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2014. In fact, it is a general impression in the Republic of Croatia that the state of the state of the country is in general, therefore the state of economic, then social, and also to say one state of general morality in the Republic of Croatia is reflected in fact in the state of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Perception, therefore, of the work of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia as many perceive our work, so our representative, representative body of the highest and evaluate in polls with -2, +2 etc. Because of a lot of things. Such is the perception of so-called executive authorities but also of the judicial authorities. Perception arising from an unequal case-law, and then from a long-term trial to be conducted. And then from, after all, and what my fellow coat of arms said from the subjective feeling of those who, always in the dispute, you have two sides that lose, therefore, in the trial. Then the overcrowding of judgments, then the delegations of judgment from one place to another, and from many things. And about corruption and possibly in the judiciary we have no measure here as said by colleague Lesar, nor do we have a problem fighting corruption in the judiciary, although when surveys are conducted on the perception of corruption in Croatian society, then you have health care, executive authority but you have the judiciary and there is a percentage of people who believe or think that there is corruption in the judiciary. It is said in these reports that unsolved cases in the Republic of Croatia are 17% lower in 2014 compared to 2013. This is the reason indeed, above all, that some of the reforms that have been carried out mainly in the criminal trial, in a criminal court where indeed one pragmatic, practical measure has been implemented where people when they admit a mistake, then the offence can, within 3 days or immediately, pay their offense or punishment, and after that, there is no initiation of a criminal trial which is very good. And you can see the result of me saying a reduction in the number of cases and pressure on the courts and the number of cases per judge in criminal courts. We seem to have forgotten a little that for the past year and years, but we do have a large drain of inhabitants from the Republic of Croatia and families of the total. So since we have a smaller number of people born, a smaller number of people are enrolled in schools, even a reduction in the number of unemployed, so we also have certain outflows and praises to a reduced number of unemployed, and in fact that number is reduced exclusively by leaving or as someone said here the free labour market and services in the European Union where Croatia is under quotes and Croatian people took advantage of that possibility and went out. Now that there is therefore a smaller number of citizens it is likely to expect that there are fewer new cases coming to the courts and that is one reason that contributes to the overall recent improvement of the work of our courts. I've been thinking about how someone here was saying that certain courts are making different judgments on the same cases, so there is, and even someone said diametrically opposite decisions in approximately the same cases, that there is an inequality of court practice. I also thought about whether or not we were watching movies when judges apply US Supreme Court decisions and are calling for certain rulings of the Supreme Court of the United States, so that such a practice would also be in the case and can be applied in the case of Croatia, so I am not aware that there are diametrically contrary judgments of certain courts on almost or approximately the same cases. Reasonable deadlines. We ask what reasonable deadlines are. So here we have the tables, really this report is sub-strategic to a number of tables so that to study this report that's statistically fantastically processed, we have deadlines that have been here for 3 years and over 10, those disputes that last over 10 years. Someone said here that work disputes, so the number of work disputes is growing, and the damages are dropping. Now, of course, the Supreme Court of Croatia cannot, when we talk about damages, or should not write about the damages that our citizens receive in the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg because of the unreasonable term of the trial. There are different reports on this, although the Minister of Justice knows better, so it is not really a job, I do not want to expose Mr. Hrvatin, he is taking care of the courts in the Republic of Croatia and of the fees for the costs of unreasonable trial in the Republic of Croatia which are the courts or the Supreme Court that he has assessed. But that amount is quite certain, we have knowledge far, far greater than the amounts that have been settled in the Republic of Croatia for trial within an unreasonable period of tens of millions of euros, which is a burden on the state budget of course. Everything goes to our taxpayers, too. About that since '97. There is no law which could possibly also sanction judges for breaking the law and judging against the law, so that there may be a sanctioning of judges in that sense, they have been chosen for life or for retirement, their working life to implement that court, we can't talk about it because that law since '97. There isn't any more years. What is significant in this report, so far I have tried to find in the tables, which is how many convictions are confirmed in the second-degree procedures, how many have been abolished, modified or returned to the first-degree procedure, in fact, in civil litigation, which is relatively not to say the most important, criminal and civil part, but in civil litigation it is a percentage of 2/3 of confirmed verdicts, 66-67%, and in the criminal section 61-62% of confirmed convictions. Whether we can compare this with previous years and whether it is necessary to compare it is difficult to say, but it might be good to compare it with foreign experiences, hence the experiences of other courts or courts in the European Union. I mean, we don't have that kind of knowledge about that being compared, but maybe it wouldn't be bad enough for us to possibly be able to talk about the quality of the trial and that this number of 66, 67% of confirmed first-degree rulings is something that's so close to Europe. Even though we can never know the subjective impression of the party that lost the dispute. Of course, there are always two sides and whether this other party will enter the second-degree appeal procedure or not. That's what they say in Zagorje for soda, we go to soda and move on. Yeah? Now there was talk of the very material state of our judiciary and of, and of the places where they work. I'm at least familiar with what's going on in court at Slavonski Brod and in County where I come from. And that there was a problem with the reconstruction, the restoration of the County Court in Slavonski Brod. But now here's the deal. But all in all, someone mentioned that there was a plan to introduce a manager, so in courts that would then be called directors of the court, and in the County Court he would be the president of the court. So, like medicine. He would be the medical director and that economic director who would care about this cash flow, the material conditions and everything that is related to the courts. Whether this would require additional costs, so hiring such or how much they would, therefore, make it possible by their work, so one better material position of the courts is difficult to say. And if there's any intention of an executive to bring such a thing into the judiciary. Information. It is not clear to me that we in the budget for this year, and even for last year in the items of individual ministries, the agency had about 600 million kuna for information. So obviously, the judiciary remained somewhat deprived in this regard, although it would be necessary in view of the introduction of the e-scription, given all other methods of modernising the judiciary, in order to fully address this by modernising in terms of information and judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. I support it, of course, to be implemented. Since this report is, therefore, so well, exactly, so statistically processed and that there is clearly a tendency to reduce numbers and unsolved cases, to reduce and even to bring up new cases, I hope that this system of delegation that we see here, where the court in Zagreb has not, for example, delegated its cases from Ivanic town, Gorica, New Zagreb, I do not know where not all of them are in the surrounding places, and even more distant places. For example, Ogulin also has cases that have been delegated to Ogulin. Well then you have travel expenses and other parties travelling from Zagreb to Ogulin, so the HDSSB club will not, of course, be against this report, because it is truly substrated by numerous arguments and tables. The only thing we have left to study is a little bit of this because there are really interesting data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112986	Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112987	So you say coworker, and rightly so, it's already been pointed out more than once. I think it deserves to be repeated that in the same cases, in very similar things, courts make different decisions. I think that's what we really need, so we need to deal with it specifically, or the Supreme Court itself. Any power to be objective in order to enjoy the confidence of its own citizens must be predictable must be calculated. So about a citizen knows what's waiting for him in court. Because if he doesn't even know what's gonna happen to him there with all the paperwork, then that's a big problem. Of course there are, there's no law that doesn't require interpretation. However, there are limits to interpretation. There are limits to legality. And what's going on in illegality? Therefore, if the laws are clear, if a norm does not require such interpretation, then it cannot be ruled in a way that does not foresee it at all, or foresees something different. It is often said here that the mistrust of citizens is because half of them are satisfied that they have succeeded, and half of them have failed. However, some countries in every country, there are two parties everywhere. But how is it that some citizens in some countries are satisfied with their 80-90% judiciary? Why? Because the innocent knew he was innocent, the guilty knew he was guilty, and there are good reasons that citizens accept. So, if he's guilty, as long as he's guilty of hope and innocent, then we're all in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112988	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112989	Thank you very much, colleague Ingrid, you're a lawyer, and all in all, I think you're right, that you've been intrigued by this finding of mine that you've explained even better than I have and that you've actually agreed with me. In fact, there are different judgments, so about the same cases, but not just different ones. I even said the diametric opposite which is even worse, even more extreme than this. And that's what's causing citizens, you said that citizens know what they expect, about what they can expect. This in citizens is causing legal uncertainty. And here I am not going to call cases now, we said we wouldn't make individual cases so I wouldn't go into the decisions and independence of the judiciary. But indeed with citizens if there is legal uncertainty then there is also that they have a hard faith and a weak faith in the courts. Yes, and to other authorities, of course. They say they're supported by this, by that. And of course it's going, it's spreading from the judiciary to the executive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112990	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112991	Thank you. My dear colleague, in your presentation, you have raised a very important question for me. You were talking about large amounts being paid for not respecting that reasonable term in the trial. It seems to me that perhaps someone from the judicial authority should be manifested. Here, we have the President of the Supreme Court here, what about those really cases where because of the unconscious conduct of judges, in which we have really big damage to the budget of the Republic of Croatia because of the sloppy treatment? Sometimes it can be because the system is simple, but in some cases it is constantly noticed that because of the simple misbehavior of certain really physical judges by name and last name we have done damage. I don't think anyone's ever asked a question about the damage. So we have, in... abolished the responsibility of the judges as a criminal liability for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I even think that maybe I should start a public debate, although my general impression is, I know a lot of judges a huge majority of them are really honorable people who consciously carry out their duties, but those more because of those maybe very small percentages that throws maybe the wrong picture at the whole system should talk about these things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112992	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112993	Thank you very much. The damage caused by the trial within an unreasonable period, so within the deadlines that are truly huge and large, tens of years some have been going on for 20 and more years, so these judgments made by the European Court of Justice are not even preceded by who is guilty or who is right in this dispute. They judge because of an unreasonable deadline, and they do not judge in terms of the purpose of any appeal, lawsuits, etc. No, it's only because of an unreasonable deadline. So the culprit can get a fee, too, because it took so long, I don't know how long. And as far as I'm concerned,
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112994	Comrade Boro Grubisic, one moment. I have the honour to welcome the Polish Parliament delegation who visited Croatia and are present at our gallery. . Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112995	That's enough, I won't go any further. If I'd known the Poles were here, I'd have given up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112996	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112997	Thank you. Here's a colleague of yours I agree with on behalf of your club. It is true that a reasonable period is necessary to gain and trust in the judiciary. A problem with, say, litigation that lasts over 10 years in which county courts very often return several times to a first-degree court, instead of perhaps in another circle let's say that they decide for themselves the measure of things. Maybe that'll solve some problems. But not an infinite return, perhaps the President of the Court can tell us something about it, not an infinite return to a first-degree court and a delay in proceedings. Most of the time, it's in litigation. Or, say, I'd like to know why the Supreme Court refuses to audit a certain percentage? The majority of the requests for review of litigation procedures, in particular, seems to me to have one objection from one citizen, 54 or 56 of them, 54 have been rejected, and only 2 have been partially accepted. Therefore, and this may be interesting, which is why the revision of certain procedures for which conditions may have been obtained. Also on the issue of trial in the same thing where two different courts make two different decisions I must commend here the Supreme Court for saving the reputation, honor and face of the Croatian judiciary in a case that was very important in Croatia's entry into the EU and concerning well-known cases of Perkovic and Mustac where we had two different decisions in two courts. And in any case commendation is the decision that the Supreme Court finally made on these issues because they have indeed saved the reputation and honour of the Republic of Croatia because it was only possible to respect international obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112998	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u112999	Now that you mention it, then, of course, the right decision for me and for you, although we may not, yes, the decision regarding the Perkovic case, then I will proceed immediately. So, the expeditionivity of the trial is evident, and it is available in terms of the media and the Internet and everything else, so the expeditativeness of the court in Germany that such a let's say complicated, though a criminal case, leads very expediently, unlike you said litigation proceedings that take tens of years. But unlike some here, I can tell our courts where for, I can't get into the objectivity of the court when it postpones or when for something I don't say banal, etc. Then the citizens lose their trust. Or when someone doesn't come, some sort of explanation that it is, I mean, there's this whole thing. But we won't say we're going into individual cases. I'm convinced our judges are doing their job honorably, in the vast majority. And that there is therefore a loss of trust and because of some individuals who may indeed be delaying the issue with intent, without intent it is questionable and difficult to explain and hard to prove whether there is a intention or not to delay the trial within an unreasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113000	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113001	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will, of course, support this report because we consider it very complete, complete, good and very informative. In fact, we could, in a very short time, have seen two reports by the President of the Supreme Court, one for 2013, one for 2014. And somehow at this same time between the two reports, a review of the state of justice in the EU for 2014 and indeed trends in improvement when we look at Croatia are visible in the EU's eyes as well. Trends of improvements are present, but we continue to complain that we have not yet implemented all the reform steps needed to ensure that the Croatian judiciary is effective, so that the number is also effective, and that it will be quality. It is interesting how, what EU member states have highlighted in their reform moves in 2014. They also stressed the strengthening of information and communication technology tools for the judicial system. We are here when we look at our reform in 2014 for the judiciary we have practically done very little. We are something, but not enough. And as I've already said, we've been biting into a big cake of reorganization of the network of courts, we've refuted the courts, we've probably spent the money, we've realized only now that the money doesn't have enough instead of spending that existing money to introduce efficiency, to introduce quality, to pay overtime and to work with judges, and then these backlogs that we've always had some rock, we're swimming towards the surface, but we're not going to swim out, and then those lags would get rid of it. And if this were resolved, it would be easier to trial, and then somehow somehow we would have gained the opportunity to put into the budgets for the next period and rebuild the buildings, and to inform, and to introduce the E-Files so that the courts could actually, in the right sense, carry out all those reform steps that we adopted last year, which is to transfer and send the file from Zagreb to Dubrovnik to the county court to solve the problem. So it wouldn't be necessary to pay a lot of postage for huge files, for example. from Zagreb courts that would go to Dubrovnik to the county court. It could only be sent through the E-File. But that is unfortunately not Croatia. And it really seems to me that we're throwing money into the wind with the kind of way that we've made a decision about a rotating, practically rotating redistribution of the writings in Croatia. Interesting information is still in this review of the situation, in the area of justice, that more than 20% of judges participated in permanent training on EU law. I'm talking about the average in other countries, I'm not talking about the Croatian average. I'm not talking about the Croatian average on purpose because we didn't get it, we didn't get it because we obviously don't have it. Because last time I asked the representatives of the judiciary here, the Ministry of Justice how many Croatian judges it is, or what the plan is to, what number of Croatian judges are planning to implement and send to education around EU rights, and then no one could give me a concrete answer. This is what the European countries put a pretty big emphasis on last year. They also stressed free internet access to civil and commercial items. Fortunately, Croatia already has that. We may have gone a little too far now because you today can see all the judgments of the municipal courts on the E ad board, but absolutely everything. Every day judgments are flogged and judgments are announced on the E advertising board, but they are not animated. So I'm really asking the question, the Supreme Court holds the criteria of animizing judgments, so it really seems to me that in this way lower courts don't behave according to the Supreme Court and these judgments really write their name and name, and these are not just judgments about the border, they're not just judgments on the determination of property rights, there's also compensation for damages, both material and immaterial and indeed, and I really think that there's Mr. President of the Supreme Court, maybe we should point out the judicial administration to publish the verdicts anyway, but not to publish them with full names. It has also been observed in Croatia by the EU in this review of the situation for the judiciary that the higher the court is a lower part of the judge, and that this even distribution is not only a pain for us, but it is a pain in other European countries, but it is still quite unbalanced with us. So I think it should have been nice and that this was when the President of the Supreme Court said we don't have the money, we have the budget that we have but work and control is present. This is indeed the case and these are the only two mechanisms left to the judiciary when the state presses them for greater efficiency and does not give them the means. And I think it's really like yesterday that the State's Attorney's office doesn't have the resources it has, and the expectations are huge. Such expectations from the judiciary in the next period are equally high, especially since this area is under constant observation, constant EU supervision. The judiciary there has received so much attention to discuss and decide how to put the judiciary in office of an increased economic recovery of a country. With this approach that we are constantly asking the judiciary to achieve efficiency and quality, without investment, and right now I really don't see any concrete investments in the judiciary or infrastructure of all infrastructure projects given up because of the lack of money, this introduction of the e-registration is not being introduced, then questions are being raised in what is being invested? It is not invested enough in education, nor in the training of judges, and then the question is, can we just crush and push that much, and without providing funds in the budget? And that is why we view this report as a good indicator where it is simply a little bit more of a redistribution in the state budget so that these expectations that we have from the judiciary, the judiciary in the right sense of the word and justify. Otherwise we'll support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113002	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113003	So today you're one of those guys who repeats what the Supreme Court President said, and that's a lack of money. Obviously, everyone realized that cutting funds would satisfy certain needs, and they don't realize that structural reforms in the state administration but segmentally in the portfolios may at first require more money to make it far less money later. And now it is seen how much that provision in the Law on Fiscal Responsibility that every legislator must give both an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact of this law not at the level of the year but over a period of years for a simple reason to clearly see a vision of what is being achieved with this law. It cannot be talked about progress in the judiciary if there is no technical improvement for the simple reason that justice is a major problem which is administratively covered, and I am not talking about a grantarian who at the moment is only 17% of the owners introduced through the OIB and still a large number of owners have not been introduced through JMBG that was put out of force 12 years ago, and this is the only identification sign that the development of owners in certain places where they have 10, 20 with the same name. And as long as that doesn't work out, we can't say that the judiciary will be effective at least as far as this economic part is concerned, and that we're not talking about these other segments because of the non-connection of the state administration, then the very difficult judiciary and in other proceedings can be effective. For this reason, this fictitious reduction of material costs in education, in health care, in the judiciary will be very expensive for the next 2, 3 years because, unfortunately, we have returned technically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113004	Vesna Scissors Ozbolt's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113005	You read my mind and tell me exactly what I think. In fact, if you remember we were here when there was a speech on judicial reform, we asked the minister how much it would cost, how much would that judicial reform cost, and how many estimates were made, whether simulations were made. It was said they weren't. And so we entered into something that we don't even know how much it's going to cost or how much it's worth. You mentioned the garter, yes, no OIB has been introduced in the garter yet, there is a legal obligation, it is being introduced through a legal obligation only now, but you have cases there which... procedures are now being conducted, and started in 2005 are not yet completed, and it is about ownership. So if you don't have clean property you can't run an economy, you can't run construction initiatives or any other commercial initiatives. So this is a big problem. And now that the money has invested these existing money that has invested and redistributed, for example. and in paying overtime then it would be much easier to clean up in overtime and the results of clean ownership would come a long way before and then we could say we have the judiciary in the function of economic development. And this way, unfortunately, we don't have it. We are on a reform that we don't even know how much it will cost, when it will end and we will see at all the real results of this reform perhaps the next report by the Supreme Court president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113006	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113007	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. I would very, very much like to agree, now I don't know which of my colleagues said this during the morning's debate so it would be good to discuss this report as well, but also the report we had on the agenda yesterday will be attended by the Minister of Justice. And it would be good to introduce this here in the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament as some good practice for the minister of justice to be present with such debates on such important reports that can pave the way for the future and that then there is a minister of justice to report and that we have an answer right away because one of the topics that is going through all the debates so far is just the lack of financial resources for the work of courts, for education, for the perfection and for everything that is the normal everyday life of every judge. It would be good and important to see how then the Minister of Justice, of course in coordination with the Minister of Finance, sees for the budget that is ahead of us. I hope that one day it will become a practice because this is how it seems like everyone's talking their own and nobody's actually hearing anybody. That the work of the courts is also important for the functioning of the economy or for what is often mentioned and few who actually say what it would mean for the implementation of reforms and for the ultimate recovery of the economy and for investment for investment and for investors is, of course, one firm, determined judicial system in which courts are united, in which there is a guarantee for a quick and effective trial is one of the elements that are important in decisions of large, particularly large investors when they decide to invest in the Republic of Croatia. So long-term but often this uneven case-law was also an obstacle for some investors who have not decided to invest in Croatia. So there's a lot of work ahead of us and I'm actually going to start from the final review and the course of action that the Supreme Court President has indicated in his report. So despite the fact that we have a reduction in the number of cases, unsolved cases and the fact that compared to 2013 it is one trend that might be relatively satisfied but what is being observed in this conclusion is the inflow of new cases. And by that we are really high in the European Union, which is why we are high and I could say that we are leading and that is not good. And as this also states why this is the case, so the courts were left with a duty, a legal obligation to arbitration and to make decisions in many cases. And who's prescribing that? The Croatian Parliament. And where in the law? And I think one of the directions that we should go to is to take a good look at the possibility of changing some laws just as far away from the courts. So changing some laws that refer exclusively to the court as a final instance could lead to some resolution. The reduction in the number of cases, therefore, is said to be the continuation of the trend of already significant reduction in the number of cases that remained in operation at the end of the calendar year, the lowest here in the past 25 years, it is good but further, of course we cannot be satisfied and I am sure neither the President of the Supreme Court but neither the judges are satisfied with that trend. I'm coming back to the budget. So here, in the final review, it is concluded, among other things, that the resources that would be sufficient are not provided, I think it is good to quote so that the public hears what it actually says and to obtain domestic professional literature, and especially not for literature that is necessary for the application of the European acquis. So how can we expect to perfect this extremely important segment and government in Croatia, so one of the branches of government if there is not enough resources to obtain domestic, professional literature and, of course, for further education. The adoption of any law which, of course, has an important impact on life in Croatia, and then, of course, it is also among those which judges must interpret and we are often unhappy with the interpretation of the law, of course, that it requires education especially when major laws such as criminal acts are changed, the Code of Criminal Procedure, etc. And the spatial problems that Mr. Hrvatin has expressed in his opening letter are truly incredible that there are courts that share some spaces with someone, anyone, any other institution or any other legal entity. This, of course, is also important because of what we did not specifically mention in this debate, which is the security of the courts and the safety of the judges. 'Cause it's been a long time since '99. the years of and the court of Zagreb when both the parties and the judge and the lawyer have been killed has shown that they have never been careful enough. There have been such cases and after that, not so drastic but the safety of judges who, by making decisions, are particularly exposed, exposed to their families and their lives of course must be fully guaranteed. Now it will be very, very important and very interesting to see the report that the President of the Supreme Court will submit for 2015. So in this year, the number of courts needs to be further reduced. So from 158 to 77. Since 2007, when we had 256 courts here we come to 77. However, a drastic reduction in the number of courts has not led to a drastic reduction in the number of pending cases. The truth is that the number of cases, I recently said something about this in one replica, the number of criminal cases, especially those that fall into oblivion, and in 2014, there were only 13, 2007 there were 402. So there was an important shift, and it really should be commended. However, I am afraid that this drastic reduction of the courts that we have of course particularly supported, the reduction of courts, the rationalization of the process in the negotiations for entry into the European Union, but now we will see. I'm not saying that a reverse process can happen, but I'm not sure whether reducing, further reducing the number of courts will lead to what must be the goal: a quick, effective, fair, legal trial that can lead to a drastic reduction in the case. I'm going back to the funds that are scheduled for this year. I remind you that the rebalance last year increased that amount by 86 million kuna, but what is certain when it looks at the structure of the budget for the courts is the fact that most of it goes back to pay. So last year it's 875 million kuna that goes exclusively to pay. The remainder is too small to capitulate and connect and all that is necessary for courts, the work of courts in the 21st century in a Member State of the European Union. Judges of course must be paid enough, they must be well paid because it is the judges who are the last instance for many citizens, many who are on the verge of endurance, who are on the verge of existence, who no longer trust anyone. That's why judges are the ones who are expected to have a hand of salvation when they knock, and that's why trust in judges is important. Judges, of course, are only human, so we need to make sure that they are well educated, well followed, but also that their property and everything they have acquired during their term as we know it is equally accessible to the public. So that leads to full and real trust in their decisions, whatever they are. Someone has already said, of course there are two parties in the process, in any case always one dissatisfied. However, what is important and when we are dissatisfied, we must be sure that the judges were not instrumentalised politically and that they were not bought in any way. Finally, I would only encourage one more time in this debate, but I would encourage perhaps the competent committees, we talked about it last time in the previous report, and it did not happen, so I think it would be good and important and valuable that our committees, for example, for the judiciary, for the legislation, organise a really broad thematic debate on this subject, that other judges of others, especially large courts such as the county court or these four county courts, who are also suing and jumping cases, but also for war crimes. And that this report that you have submitted to us is a basis for discussion, one of course with full respect for all of you who have spoken and who will say but one expert debate that might then serve as a specific guideline or guidance for what we should do in the future. Because, of course, every justice minister who comes here wants to bring in something new, proposes some changes, some news that can be good, but also doesn't have to be good in the sense that they don't lead to the final result. We will certainly support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113008	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113009	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are talking in front of this big audience about a topic that is very important and the HDZ club will look at this report a little differently because I think in the context of a country that has been in crisis for 7 years, in recession, to observe this report and not to look at the impact of the judiciary on all movements in the economy would be at least inconclusive because simply some things have to be cut down to make it easier for the economy and for those citizens themselves. So when we talk about the economic aspect it's very interesting that no one here today has mentioned bankruptcy or bankruptcy judges or the High Court of Commerce fall within this sphere covered by the Supreme Court, but I think they should be spoken of because when a certain time passes then it will be seen how much damage has been done through the bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia. I will mention only one thing that particularly hurts me, which is the bankruptcy of a municipal company in Velika Gorica, which was launched in 2000 and practically lasted 14 years even though the situation was crystal clear. However, one of the key problems was how to exclude municipal infrastructure from bankruptcy because it cannot be in bankruptcy something that is of strategic interest both for the local self-government unit and for the city. And we can pull such parallels through a series of companies that are scattered to use that folk term. Some properties, machines, real estate, although many of these companies could survive, could work, might be restructured with fewer workers. And talk about the report submitted by the President of the Supreme Court and not mentioning this segment, I don't think it should just be bypassed. Because the High Commercial Court is very important, very important in one message it sends to all potential investors in the Republic of Croatia, which is legal security. Unfortunately, many in Croatia have invested money under one law, and they were later judged by other laws. However, due to all these misunderstandings, one bad message is sent to all those who would like to invest in Croatia. Because when you look at some sort of ranking list that's important to someone to invest in one country, then three parameters are very important to you. One is political security, the other is legal security and that is and the third is tax stability. That's three reasons that are crucial to someone who makes a decision where they're going to invest money. And that's why I'm saying we can't talk about this report without just touching that subject. Because I think that at this point in Croatia is the issue of all issues. Because at this point, it is a matter of all the issues of how to economically launch the Republic of Croatia, how to create several tens of thousands of jobs. Then all these stories about both the budget and the pension problem will have a very different dimension and the tax burden will have a very different dimension. And in this segment of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, the judiciary must bear a heavy burden. Why? Well, because it can't happen that someone who owes someone for some kind of service or sold goods doesn't pay for 5, 10 years or that these companies end up in bankruptcy, because they can't settle their obligations. If something is crystal clear, if there are all documents to base on which obligation is created, then the process cannot be conducted for five or ten years. He just has to end up on record short notice. And then those billions of people who are very often here will not be the object of the shooting, but they will know exactly who and why they remain in debt. 'Cause look, in the non-payment chain, the first one who doesn't pay for himself is pulling 10, 20, and sometimes a few hundred others to whom he hasn't paid, he doesn't pay those obligations, and in principle the small ones get hurt. We had a chance to discuss this when we were here discussing pre-determined settlements. Pre-party settlements are very interesting one different view and different interpretation of the legal profession. It is good to have a different opinion, but the judiciary is there to protect those who need protection. Did they protect the smallest and tiniest ones in pre-war deals? No, they're not. Because that's why I'm going back to the High Court of Commerce. Companies, daughters, grandparents, or whatever they call themselves, have come up with 50, 60% of claims, and in such a way they have virtually come to have all the powers to adopt a pre-emptive plan and programme. And in that whole story of who was hanging out, it was up to those who had petty claims because virtually no one asked them anything. They couldn't make a decision about anything. They will be paid in three, four or five years without interest 30, 40 or 50, I speak by heart of the amount and in principle these small entrepreneurs were not protected. And I think that the profession simply had to stand in defense of those, it simply had to stop, not that we were in public looking at each other, shooting a few judges. One of them speaks like this, the other one speaks like that. Why am I saying all this? Well, because it's life. They're jobs. These are the revenues of the state budget and these are the means that may have been able to solve the material problem with which the judiciary is being tortured. After all, the state's attorney said something about it. And to finish this part of the story. The next part of the story is just that I'm not gonna keep quiet, I don't want to, and I've talked about it two or three times today. That's the granite problem. So then the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Hrvatin, gave full support when we set out for the OIB project, like everyone else and the attorney general and everyone. Why? Because they were aware of the tools that the state and people working in the state administration and the judiciary were getting. However, someone simply pulled the hand brake at the given moment. And now I'm going to tell you the truth. At the moment we started with the OIB and when it was to be introduced into the garnery, only 15% of the owners in the garland were seduced by a unique birth number of citizens who were legally abolished. So his application was lifted if I wasn't wrong in 2002, only 15%. And JMBG was a reference information based on which the OIB was assigned, because you had nothing else. And when it was done, when the minister last proposed some law a few months ago, then I asked him how many real estate owners in the Republic of Croatia were seduced through the OIB. He told me 17 or 18%. You know what that means? Try to buy in Dalmatia a plot where one part of the family is across the ocean and practically there for the third generation, so try to solve 10 or 15 squares so that we can form one building plot, then you'll see what happens to you. And yet we need to speak in the context of what is today a cancer of the early Republic of Croatia and that is the economy. It's investment. You can't get someone to invest their money if on the one hand there's legal uncertainty and if it takes 2 years to solve property-legal relations in the Republic of Croatia, and that's garnery. And it simply doesn't matter how much it costs, and it doesn't matter whether Croatia has a deficit greater than 100 or 200 thousand this year, whether the government will show a deficit of 12 billion 800 or 13.5 billion and the European Commission will say 18.8 billion has things that simply have to be done. They have to be made to send a good message. And one of those things is to arrange the garter to know exactly who and what kind of owner he is. And that's what justice simply says, there's no price. Because this will return very quickly through budget revenues, they will return very soon to local self-government units through a municipal contribution that will be collected by the basis of the investments that will take place in their field. And that's the way to look at it. And that's why when we pass laws in this House it's built into the fiscal responsibility law that was passed in 2010 that whoever proposes the law has to give an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact, not for a year, but for a longer period of time for a simple reason to see what we're doing, what's going to happen. And if that doesn't happen then it can be said that it didn't happen, not that the President of the Supreme Court here has to tell us today the truth about what happened and what's behind the reduction in the position of material costs. A similar situation is at other ministries, at the Ministry of Justice. Yeah, the judges didn't get computers, the elemental thing. We can't ask them today to type the record anyway and ask them to be effective. We can't ask them if they don't have complete professional literature, if they can't pass education, especially in these economic matters, and even in these criminal cases that have both a blood Delicate and everything we can't ask them to be effective. Because how are we going to ask someone to be effective if you don't give them the opportunity to educate? It's the same story that you're asking athletes to run 100 meters, which I know in nine seconds, say or less, and at the same time you don't give him the opportunity to train for two months. Or you ask a football player to play a game at a full pace but he doesn't train for two months because there's no stadiums, no digs and something like that. I caricate very harshly, but unfortunately, it's true. Because the value of these computers is nothing compared to the value given by an effective judiciary. Education, education is something that can be understood under the common denominator of the entire state administration. Let's take any state service, any ministry, and look at how many times a year they have some education programs to adopt new knowledge, new values. See how many laws we have changed here, how many laws and legal gains we are harmonising with the EU acquis. Are our people who need to enforce these laws educated? No, they're not. And if they're not educated, then let's not be surprised that they act in two different ways on the same subject. This is solely due to the ambiguity of the rules. And not to say that by joining the EU, by accepting the EU acquis, we have received a new language so to speak, because those who translate from English to Croatian do quite literally translate and then have some new and sentences and all together. And unfortunately, it happens that two different judgments are made in the same case. Only because of the need for a meeting, because of not communicating, and now the question is whether such an education that will cost several million kunas is cheaper than a few dozen hundred or more million damages that can happen? You can judge that for yourself. There is no room to talk about, the President of the Supreme Court mentioned the Supreme Court in Velika Gorica. Yes, it's tragic that this court is temporarily located in an office space. Tight corridors, you can't possibly protect the sound of anyone out there not hearing what's going on inside. It's the County Court, and that's where the most difficult offenders are tried. And there may be some evil, don't let God happen, but it's been going on for 15 or 16 years. You've got as many cases as you want. And to finish, this famous reform of the judiciary and the reduction of the number of courts. We were all more or less into it, simply as because of the territoriality to say the fullness and void of certain parts of Croatia is also due to the burden of the courts. And the logical thing was to make certain changes. However, these changes are unfortunately not materially accompanied, these courts are not materially or spatially equipped to be able to do their part of the work with full force. And finally what I was saying at the beginning of certain cases where after a few years or ten and over years, bankruptcy procedures are being conducted or waiting for the opportunity to collect what you were looking for. So, the report mentions so-called. old objects. We're going to take these several cases like this by sample theory, so we'll see how many times the first-degree debates are scheduled, and you'll see that one or two discussions are scheduled and then smart enough why this is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113010	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113011	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly singled out from this report a state of public register such as the tax number, such as the grantovnica, I would add a cadastre, so the judiciary, all that is necessary and what is a symbol of statehood. Someone said the difference between Franjo Austria and today's politicians was what? In respect of the state of the public registers. In the 20 years of Croatian statehood, we have invested a billion kuna in this part of what you have been talking about in the tax number of catasters and land books, all together, while, for example, in those 20 years, only for registration of vehicles including insurance and Croatian citizens invested 100 billion kuna. It is not surprising that this problem and with the registration of ownership, with the inability to invest, and even when certain funds are allocated to the creation of a new cadastre and new grantovnica are created, I wanted to point out in particular that the land-book judges of Mr. Supreme Court and otherwise the grantovnica are not established and not followed, and so the slow intensity of the catastra and land-book arrangements for reasons that cannot be restored after the presentation of the land-book, and it certainly does not go. Well, in this work, I agree with you fellow Schucker that it is very important and necessary to insist on making a grantovnica, making a catastra, connecting a grantovnica and a tax number, and this is the only way that we can arrange this very important segment of Croatian society and without whose arrangements as I have said there are no investments, no new projects and no development of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113012	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113013	That fellow Bačić, as we often like to point out in the club that building the highway is one of the most important infrastructure facilities for the development of tourism, the development of the economy both in the hinterland and in the coast, so the public register is therefore a cadastre and grantovnica one fundamental part of the efficiency of the judiciary in this work. And we can fool ourselves, talk whatever we want, but if we don't solve it, we'll always have one hole that will in principle... And why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not going to admit that the riot in the garter occurred at the time when the property tax in the former state was proportional, it was moving up to 50, 60%, and people simply didn't record the changes, they didn't record the settlement because of the emigration of a large one that was on the one hand in Western Europe, on the other hand in the overseas countries, so we can also list a number of other reasons, and that's why we have this public register unsettled, then we have a terrible bad cooperation between the catastrus and the grantonics, and there's no unified cooperation between the city and the city, and then we have the situation that we have. And not to say that after this now legalization of objects the same. Let's say you get a legalization solution, then you did everything from someone who charges the city's municipal fee to deliver a solution, then when you deliver a solution to it, then he sees that there's no net surface. And the solution to the communal fee, everything was issued to you by the city's body. And then based on that all together you should spend in the garter room. No way. However, to use these as these documents were said and that's what the President of the Supreme Court said, and that's the so-called. Even when the first body completes it, it basically processes it for all the bodies that should continue to act on it. And without informing it, it's gone. And then the question arises whether these tens of millions of deficits are too expensive or is it going to be a terrible loss in the future? I'm a supporter of the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113014	Nevenka Becic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113015	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, in your presentation, you have very well established what I fully agree that for the start of economic development of the Republic of Croatia, political legal and tax security is very important among other things. However, I would point out that there are no quality investment investments unless we have arranged cadastrian operations and land-book conditions in the land. And unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, the situation is such that these two most important segments for economic take-off are not solved in quality. As far as the OIB is concerned, I believe that this information is defeated, which you have pointed out, which is that only 17% of the ownership in land books is, or in the garter, as you say, recorded on the basis of the owner of the property. However, I ask the question of what is then with the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, whether it has only 17% of registered ownership through the OIB, or whether it can determine who owns something because it is very important, important to determine the disproportionateness between the assets and incomes that an individual in the Republic achieves. So that's what we should work on. Furthermore, it would refer to the European Court's rulings for both human rights and otherwise, which are a source of law and which domestic legislation should be implemented in its legislative framework, which unfortunately is not the case for us, which is why there is an increasing flow of new court cases on our courts. And respecting all that has been said before and what is written in the report is that other than the objects that have been inherited and which have not been solved for years, there are a number of new items. I believe that because of the lack of respect for the judgments of European courts, such a situation has occurred. Because if legislation were to be changed according to these judgments then there would be fewer litigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113016	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113017	Look, colleagues Becic, we have here a statement from government officials and colleagues on this side of Parliament that finally all state property has been recorded. Nothing happened, just what was inside and it went into the computer to make it available to everyone. This property in the garland is not at all in the account of the state or carried out. So let's start with what we're boasting as, in fact, the government boasts that it has introduced order. Then we can come to the property of citizens, on the property of businesses not to speak, so you have cases that you have a road that was built there in the 50s to build along with it a highway pipeline of water or gas, or it doesn't matter what and you have to take the right of service from land ownership. And when you look at yourself in the garter and in the catastrus, the owners of those fields that were in the 1950s continue to lead on that part. And you practically have to conduct a complete procedure, invite them all, waste a lot of time because people don't even respond because they know it's not theirs. Why? Because the state didn't do its part of the job. Therefore, we don't need to go far and that's exactly what the state is going to have a problem with, we need to understand that they have a problem with citizens, that they have a problem with entrepreneurs, and then this problem has to be solved. And the OIB you mentioned was designed to be the central register of the IRS. The tax administration is connected to all state authorities, it was foreseen by 2013, 2014 that through the OIB all property in the grantovnica and the Tax Administration will be seduced, given that the line is very easy to enter into who the owner is and even at the time when the building permit is launched, all segments that are interested can see but according to the precise rules listed and then, without a problem, check who or what property he has. And it can't happen anymore that someone buys for someone because then you're going to ask the other one well from where you bought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113018	We'll continue at 15.00 hours, first in line, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113019	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. In the name of the SDSS club, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113020	President of the Supreme Court, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS welcomes the fact that the practice of reporting to the Croatian Parliament and representatives in the Croatian Assembly on the state of the judiciary, on the functioning, on the needs, needs for promotion and, of course, on places that represent still gray zones in the functioning of our judiciary and our judicial authority has been established and balanced. What we would particularly point out as a club is the fact that despite serious progress in solving unsolved cases, which has been a long time problem in our judicial practice we still have serious difficulties in achieving the rights of our citizens to protect legality as they seek it when they are among two categories of criminal practices. One is in the domain of civil law, the other is in the area of criminal law, above all in the area of war crimes trial. And when the issues of civil law or property issues arise, when the issues of employment are raised, unfortunately we still note the fact that property law issues burden the work of courts, and are being approached by increasingly numerous and increasingly significant issues arising from social and labour relations that are partly caused by the way employers treat their employees and their labour rights, whether they are concerned about paying salaries, whether they are respecting other rights arising from labour rights or whether it is the fact that some colleagues have warned in previous discussions which are the consequences of pre-party deals and bad outcomes for employees working in these companies or business entities who have reached such a situation to deal with their business in pre-party deals. And there is no doubt that in this respect they will need to do much more than this moment seems to be when, in response to the protection of people in their work-law and their property, if we consider the issue of paid salaries to be a form of property and form of rights arising from work. The second thing we'd like to talk about is the issue of pending cases in a war crimes trial and the practice of a war crimes trial. A number of war crimes cases are about on a long waiting list, and we don't understand why. whether this is due to the lack of adequate coordination between police and DORH or between DORH and courts, we do not know. But to begin some processes in war crimes trials, many previous actions are being taken, especially when it comes to war crimes committed by members of the Croatian military or Croatian police. And here, as in the judgments, we see a practice which unfortunately is not even and is not standardised either on how to collect evidence or on the credibility of witnesses, and unfortunately neither about giving a level of punishment, unfortunately. I will not cite examples especially of those who are still current, but such practices have and it still burdens the work of our courts, burdens and free to say is a serious problem for credibility and professionalism when it comes to our judiciary. One case and another issue of civil disputes as well as the issue of war crimes trials are the consequence that a growing number of cases have been addressed by citizens from the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg year by year, so it has already become a more or less general sentence to go to Strasbourg because unfortunately, justice cannot be found in the Republic of Croatia and a growing number of cases from the Republic of Croatia are coming to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Whether they are complaining about the length of the process, whether they are complaining about the accessibility or the availability of the judiciary or whether they are complaining about procedural or other proceedings that they could not exercise their rights. This not only harms these citizens but also damages the Republic of Croatia because more funds are being allocated year by year to the Republic of Croatia's International Court of Human Rights ruling obliges these people to pay for a certain type of compensation. This is no special comfort for these people, it is not a comfort for us either, but it is not for our judiciary but it is probably a serious problem and it is probably one of the reasons why the European Commission's latest report on the situation in our judiciary is bad. And that's Mr. President of the Supreme Court and our impression. Our impression is that in the Republic of Croatia money is becoming more powerful compared to the letter of the law. If you have a good lawyer, I mean. If you can pay for it then you'll be safe in a better position, not to use any other word, to deal with the Attorney General's indictment. On the other hand, in recent years, we have seen serious policy infiltration in the work of courts, and in the actions of judges in which judges express political assessments, they are pollomising with the representatives of the authorities, and not only to pollomise with representatives of the authorities but to send messages that are no longer genderal but are ultimate and threatening, and in some cases they are insulting. I won't talk about names again, but we all know what you're talking about. Foreign political campaigns have become involved in the work of courts and some judges do not hide it at all. If I were so party biased, I'd have a problem in acting in this assembly, if I'd let my tongue be burdened with this kind of party political bias, I'd have a problem, not just in front of myself, but in front of my colleagues and colleagues, rightly so. But when judges need to be trusted by all citizens, that's a serious problem. I know that there have been some efforts to do something about this, but these efforts have, with all due respect and all due respect to what I have to have towards you and those on whose behalf you're reporting, unfortunately, been far from what they're supposed to be. So they weren't resolute enough. I remind you once again, the money in our house is becoming a more secure protector than the law and the letter of the law. Political influences on the judiciary, in particular in very important and sensitive issues, too, and if I may say, the Supreme Court is undoubtedly here when you report and you, Mr. President, when you submit the report, you are undoubtedly, if my impressions and my knowledge are correct or approximately correct, you should do anything to send a clear message to everyone, from me and beyond, that the independence of the judiciary in this respect must be respected but must be respected by the actors themselves in the judicial authority, and not respected. Now, I'd like to say two words about something I spoke about yesterday regarding the State's Attorney General's report. It is our impression, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, that there is a kind of competence that is not only professional and that is not just proof of facts between the state's attorney and the judiciary. Competition is, in this sense, necessary and necessary and stems from the very nature of actors on the one hand, legal proceedings or obstructions, conflicting, and we had serious indications that and this exists, are a serious problem. I'd like to talk about it, because if it's close and in a small percentage it's a serious problem for the functioning of the judicial authority. A very serious problem. And with a report that is undoubtedly more than standardly well drawn up and we welcome it as such, I would also like that dimension to be reported by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, dimensions and our possible responsibilities but at the same time also the dimension of the actual coherence of the functioning of institutions such as the state's attorneyship and such as courts. The SDSS representative club will support this report, with these few notes that we consider to be an important part and that we hope will be taken into account, especially when we talk about the fact that from day to day in the Republic of Croatia, social, economic and regional inequality among citizens, which undoubtedly leads to a situation where many things are less accessible to them than those who are more equal, and that means courts, and that means judicial protection. And that means all justice. And for this reason, as people who are responsible for the constitutional foundations and constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia, among which equality is social, regional and any other elemental assumption, we are obliged to draw attention to what we recognize as signs of the trend that exists in our society. I won't say that we are in this regard an exception but some countries have more stable legal systems than we have because they have a strong tradition. We have failed to develop this tradition, we have failed to preserve it, and under new circumstances we have failed to fully develop it. With a desire to have a report by next year that will contain at least a part of what I'm talking about, once again, the SDSS Representatives Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113021	Thank you. We have a signed replica, a respected representative of Nevenka Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, in your presentation, you have pointed out among other things that in many situations our citizens cannot exercise their rights in front of Croatian courts which are due to them and as a consequence of what we have done and many have already ended up before the European Court of Human Rights. I fully agree with you and, unfortunately, it is unacceptable in my opinion that the reputation and rating of the Croatian state is being violated because we cannot organise the quality work of the courts and we cannot do so in quality or in no way be able or political will to implement in our legislation what is already before the European Court of Human Rights and ruled. Well, I would also point out to you this particular last case, if you remember in this assembly, Honorable Minister Mrak-Taritash announced in January that in the month of April, there will be amendments and additions to the Law on the Rental of dwellings in which what is in the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the judgment of Statileo v. RH and the above, and what obliges each member of the EU and, above all, the Republic of Croatia. So, we're coming up with a situation where the minister is cheating on the public, announcing that she's going to amend the law and it hasn't been changed. Not that it did not come to the parliamentary procedure but even the interested public cannot come up with information whether an action plan was to be delivered to the EU Council of Ministers, whether this plan has been made, whether the council has adopted the plan and whether they intend to implement it in our legislation at all? Because the new lawsuits are under way, and not only on this issue, but there are still a number of European Court rulings that have not yet been implemented in our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113023	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113024	Dear colleagues, I can't help but say that you are right, that this represents on the one hand the cost, and on the other hand is a violation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and its judicial institutions. And according to the latest report by the European Commission, this gets additional confirmation, so not only in the number of cases but also in the political assessment itself or in the judicial political assessment. And I think it's a chance for us all to tear ourselves apart in this regard when it comes to the situation in our justice system. The situation in our judiciary doesn't go any better than it does worse, unfortunately. It is certainly not the Supreme Court that is responsible for this, but we are all responsible to a good degree. But the Supreme Court and, in particular, the county courts have a special responsibility to respond to signs of loss of trust by citizens to judicial authority. And that trust and the loss of that trust is unfortunately growing. The feeling of us following as closely as possible in public space processes also tells us that there is a serious breach of compliance, that there is a serious breach of authority and that there is a serious breach of professionality when it comes to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113025	On behalf of the HNS club will be a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113026	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. I think we should stress here for the second time, however, I think we have a report from the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court on the work of the courts in the Republic of Croatia. This is already when we made such a decision, that is, when we included it in the law was one significant and major shift, if nothing else, then here is the fact that, through the figures, we analyze between other states of the judiciary because most often even today and before it was through some general perception. So, guess what is said to be the one who loses in court or who is in some long-term procedure in which he cannot prove what he claims to be unsatisfactory. And that it's never fast enough for him, especially if in that process it's likely to lose or lose in court. So it's good when we talk about all this through facts, through data, through numbers. And what needs to be highlighted here, I will highlight things that are positive despite, of course, all the problems that follow not only the trial in the Republic of Croatia but various segments and other institutions of our economic and social life. So this trend in reducing the number of pending cases continued in 2014 and what is the fact that the end of 2014 recorded the smallest number of pending cases in the last 25 years. Especially now that we're considering the fact that those more extensive objects were being dealt with, means or so on. more difficult cases that these numbers, i.e. these shifts, are truly and truly significant and that support should be given to our judicial authority, i.e. the judiciary and the people who work in it, to continue with this work as it was given in this report. And of course we also try as parliamentary representatives, but also our government, or the competent ministry, but, of course, on the basis of what will be recommended by the people who work in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in which way all these processes can be speeded up, made them more quality and better. I think it can be done because the president has also highlighted some of the problems that appear there. One of them is, of course, those who torture in the Republic of Croatia, which is financial and material. Therefore, some pre-conditions of the work of the courts are not fully satisfied that they could expect more significant shifts if, among other things, this body through the budget and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not decide to invest more significantly in both personnel and resources of material and education and all that is stated in this report as a prerequisite for better judicial work. What's the same, here's the indicators are better and I think it should be pointed out that it's also good. So, de facto with a smaller number of people, with smaller resources, they've achieved better, or good results. Could we be satisfied with that, of course, is something, another question. But, of course, the question is quite general. So Croatia, relative to the number of inhabitants within the EU, is breaking through all figures, meaning the disputes it reports in the first place. So we have an awful large number of disputes in the courts that I wouldn't, of course, in this speech right now, elaborate this report. But surely there is some broader context that makes it so. I won't say, we can't boast of some good traditions and some good, quality culture. But surely some answers could be found in that segment as well. So, traditionally how in our country I guess hundreds of years back, well that tradition she does, but if I can't solve someone else, I'll sue or how in our folk sayings it's often and ridiculed. So, I'm afraid we're not just going to solve it through judicial practice. However, what will certainly deter many and from doing the work of course for which they are charged and years, but also for launching some civil litigation is a situation in which our judiciary will be faster and more effective. Because in a number of cases, this particular instance of the trial, or coming to court, was the possibility that some of the problems could be delayed at some future time, and knowing that these problems, or these disputes, would be a huge number, means that the problem would then be delayed to a very distant and multi-annual future. So it's a broader context that maybe we should also do a deeper interdisciplinary I'd say an analysis of why it's like that for us. For indeed these disproportionateities that we have within us, when we compare ourselves with some countries that are similar to us. I'm not going to say with those countries that have much longer democratic traditions, but really these numbers are amazing with us. It means it's not just a problem in courts. One of the things that is highlighted here, which seems to me to mean that, except that we are supporting it to strengthen to the extent that, of course, it can, to strengthen the judiciary, to financially support the education of our judges, which I think is extremely important in the quality of their work and monitoring even new rules, to align regulations, or practices with EU practice. And this part relating to information that will also require funding, as well as additional education. Because what we've achieved so far is that de facto we have a better insight into everything that's going on. But we don't actually use it as a quality tool to solve processes and objects themselves. I believe that in today's technology and through the modification of the laws on how to use this technology could significantly speed up the work of our courts. I would also say the following about what Pupovac pointed out, which is that we must strictly beware of the well-being of all of us and of our citizens of the politicisation of courts, regardless of whether the executive or legislative authority is looping into courts or whether there is a reverse situation, and unfortunately we have one and another situation. And here, as I did in my time when I told you about the State's Attorney's Office a few years ago, I told the State's Attorney General at the time, so here I take the right to actually appeal as a representative of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives. Judges must be and are authority and must be authority. Rights, justice, and it is extremely important when they send the right messages, especially those at the head of the highest institutions. By chance, I was saying this to the attorney general at the time, but here I am appealing to you today also means when the President of the Supreme Court, with his full authority, I think he can and must and is obliged to warn and publicly at any moment his colleagues, first of all, when they turn away from this path of meddling in politics, i.e., first of all, mixing and vice versa when politics wants to interfere, because a straight spoken word often has an important impact on my behavior and I think that is a positive use of authority and that there is no need to be afraid of it. Condemning interference, tampering, politicizing without speaking in any extreme case and abuse of position within the institutions of the judiciary. So I think that Mr. Pupovac was on a good track, and I think that this Croatian Parliament and we as MPs must and should appeal to you as a person who is at the head of but of course also people who are acting in charge and in the courts of the lower rank that they must behave in accordance with the code of course of the profession of the court, but also with a general code which is written in fact in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is that judges should not engage in politics, but also so that politics should not interfere, or that they should not interfere in the work of the courts. And the more consistent we stick to it, I think we'll be more quality and we as citizens through politics will be more appreciated. Here's what I'd end up with. Of course, the Croatian People's Party club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113027	Thank you. I'm now asking the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Hrvatin, would you like to speak in a final manner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113028	Mr. President, I've told an esteemed colleague before, somehow, because the most I speak to my colleagues, I rarely have the right to speak here in front of you, I didn't mean to turn you into my colleague, you are, of course, respected representatives, forgive that colleague, but it was so spontaneously said. I'd use these ten minutes maybe even though I'm entitled to more, because everything's said. The question is whether everyone is told and that's the basic question when you put on the table a theme like this that is very simple and they would say everything we know about everything, but we need to repeat something. From Mr. Pupovac who spoke of the equality my chalk was to me and there will be some other things, but from the repetition there is never any harm. And that's why I'd like to say this short one, I'd tell you something that I didn't put into my conclusions, but I'm thinking about what I'm building my own vision of just judicial or judicial authority right now, which is that the essence of the system is so that the courts are everything, and I've already said that today they have to treat it in the same way and on a fair basis and such a manner of manner. All persons must have equal access to the court and equal treatment. That's what this equality in decision-making is about, that's how court practice is brought into line. But we must all be aware that the courts are independent, non-arbitral, but are independent in making their decisions, and for their decision they must give reasons for which they think they are based on the law, to say on which facts they base their conclusion and to make a final decision. In our system, we do not have a mandatory opinion of the Supreme Court so as to call for it, but we have a uniformity of the drought practice, and finally the Supreme Court will decide in a particular case and balance that practice. It's going a little slower, but it's definitely one legally prescribed way and we have to stick to it. The other thing is the independence that I always stress here and I will repeat again what I said and the last time, but with it associated responsibility, I never spoke of that independence that at the same time the second sentence and the second word behind it was not a responsibility because they are the essential elements of the judicial authority as a whole of what I said at the beginning and so on and every judge. So, the judiciary must maintain its status as an independent branch of government and an equal branch of government. I didn't say random equals, we want to be equal, but we're weaker. We're slightly weaker through the possibility of passing our messages, some times our hands are tied because we can't talk about some things, or we can do it limited, but the fact is that it's something that's really our call. The trial and the trial is not a job, it's a calling, it's a call, the real call you have to have. And I agree when we talked about the material side, the wages, etc. But no fee or overtime is an excuse when something isn't done or someone, you know you're doing bad, or you know there's no excuse for anything in any of the most primitive ways. I said, and I'll repeat it to my colleagues once you get to that stage, get out of court, that's not your place. And finally here I'm going to tell you one more thing that I'm saying to my colleagues, and I'm asking you to really understand that we have understood your message, but, well, every time a judge enters the courtroom, he has to be accepted and consciously accept and agree that he's being tried, that the court is given him an objective, whether he's impartial, whether he's professional and whatever decision he makes, and it has to be every judge who's aware of that part. But we also have the right to have someone who condemns us in such a way as to be at least in a somewhat impartial manner, to be objective and to think carefully about what he says and how he says. Yes, and today we've heard a few findings about them I won't talk much about because it's a political arena and it's certainly the opinions that every right has, but which are almost to the extremes. You know that no positive or thank you, I'm going to talk about praise now, if it was extremely not good, it wasn't real, so believe me, just when it's only when it's unreasonable when that absolute extreme isn't good and it just doesn't have room for it. But I'm telling you that's what we have to base on. All the tools you've seen here, the checks, the controls aren't made here for the judges, but they're made for the parties to make sure that the case came into the hands of a neutral judge in that natural division, that the judge did the case independently, but also impartially to answer for his work and you said it well, but how, strictly. I don't think I'd agree with you there's no colleague Anticevic, and last time she said, be careful when you consider the possibility of a criminal offence. There's a possibility of a tight part that, if there's a crime done for corruption because of something, it's a whole other thing. There we can come to a very slippery terrain possibility of influence on judges. One thing I mentioned and I will repeat it, modernising the judiciary in the area of court management, the judicial administration in the area of judicial proceedings is necessary. We can say today we have so much money or we don't have it, but it's something we have to plan, take care of it because otherwise we don't have a way out. Quality of providing judicial protection, I'll even tell you rougher, court service, we're the service of citizens. We are the third power, we are judges that proudly sounds but we are the service of citizens and every word when I speak here about material status, believe me, when we talk about independence I'm talking about for citizens. The citizen has a right, and you owe him as a legislator to ensure that I also have the right to an independent, impartial judge. It's his right, it's not my right to be independent and hide from responsibility. It also has the right and must be safe and must be provided with service in a court building with good conditions, with dignified conditions etc. That's the least we've done, believe me. Sometimes when I go to the hospital and I see that they've done something very nice to me and I see and I see that you can. I remember when I was going to the hospitals that were in a derby state, we still have new wings today. It's not great again, I probably don't know in New York, or what we see on TV is one of those hospitals and you better gear up, but there's something ahead. You can do it whenever you want. The insurance of expertise through permanent education I mentioned, and I'm going to say once again, that's the necessity today. We can deal with such a legal system today, with a system like this... only one we have specialized judges who know what they want and how they want to know. Their legal obligation is the same, you know, we have a legal obligation of education to meet if we don't have the material conditions for it. And now I'd just like a few more let me say here seven, eight minutes I'm going to say it one more time, and I think I'm going to have to say it like that famous speaker who started every sentence from Cartaga has to be destroyed, I'm always going to say comment on court decisions, especially comment on powerful court decisions. So there's no hiding. You and the public and the media must be careful not to send the wrong message. But I'm not personally going to say anything against comments one more time, but the comment must be that it provides a full, factual picture of what you're talking about so that the public can conclude and draw their own conclusion which is true or put on a particular side. Comment but you must never cross that line to use inappropriate expressions. Why am I saying that? Respected by our authorities or our executive authority is the foundation of the existence of a state and we must communicate in one way and that is the only thing that is borderline in all of this. You've said well I should get a few times maybe more call Frank Sinatra says my way she sings my way so that I choose very carefully where I will and when I make a statement if I can give it in writing just so that everyone gets the same. And then I reacted several times when I thought the border was crossed between possible statements by politicians, and I'm going into that sphere and what they said about the specific situation. It's a very thin line that you can cross in order not to cause any other reaction that can later be counterproductive. I think it's my way of saying that it's not too often used, that it's not put out through that way, but that when you say it, it's someone who really understands it. I did it with one authority, I did it with another authority, if I stay here again I will do it with that authority. But the way it seems, it doesn't matter either. You'll remember one time when on Saturday at 7:00 in the news a prime minister said a statement, they started bombing me with a request for... I said no President of the Supreme Court will give you his reaction at 8:00 Monday and the way it seems is the way that you thought about standing behind those words but also to show that you're not going to talk to anyone that someone... So why am I talking about it? You have the right to expect it but I'm saying maybe my way isn't the best, I accept, but I've never gone to such crusades, I don't think anyone's ever had at least by my grade. I've seen it in my case law practice, I've been a judge since '86, and I've been in the judiciary since '82, and I've seen a lot of conflicts between different branches of government, and that's the part. And that's what I tell the judges, you have to accept me in that position as I am. There will be someone else who will have other manners, another way, probably better, probably more efficient, but here's the thing. But one thing I'm going to tell you, I'm also never going to be afraid to say my opinion, and that's what I think I've shown at this time, I've never been afraid to say my opinion, and that's that part. Mr Vuksic was talking about the way we work and this Parliament and I think and that's what you said, and my approach is this report is one thing, working through the Justice Committee is another. And I think it's the right place to meet us from the judiciary together with you and we can discuss any topic. I will remind you and I have said this before the first report, I have responded in this House several times just when the topics of entry into the European Union were sensitive, when we talked about the way, the tactics, when we talked about what we should do, have we done enough when we had a critical approach. So there's no reason to answer that. But the DORH thing that's been said to competence or this, I just don't accept. DORH is a party in court. I've got nothing to talk to either the attorney general or any state attorney. They file their demands, the court decides about them, gives them reasons, and that's where all our cooperation ends. If we are in working groups in some laws then it is likely that our colleagues will either from the DORH or from the Supreme Court if they are there primarily to represent themselves as experts and the Supreme Court will give its final opinion is known in which way in relation to specific law or other matters. There's no competence, it's you, you'll rule on it, you'll pass the law. Therefore, in that part, I do not know what was said but I have said there are many rulings falling, etc., there is no debate about it. We decide this in the first-degree procedure, we decide in the second-degree, there are mechanisms of verification, and that's where our cooperation ends. The other wouldn't be good. I'll tell you openly, when there was a schooling of judges and state lawyers I tried to separate in the very right of Valbandon, at seminars of judges and state lawyers because I said wait a minute, they were together now in the classroom, tomorrow they'll find themselves in a courtroom with which the right is not then and lawyers of parties who will also participate in education because inches we're crossing that some of our steps. I say it's very important in that part. Here's another thing I might want to steal a minute, there were a few remarks that I really have to accept and try to act on, one of them was this one of the last ones to talk about statistics, she was talking about complaints. And it is true, therefore, that our appeal procedures are in civil districts of the trial dispute because we have 140 thousand cases ahead of us. When we speed them up, it's that wish, when we speed them up, and when the party knows they're going to complain, that in 3 months they're going to make a decision by appeal, and they're going to pay a tax of several thousand kunas then they're going to think about whether that way I'm going to buy time and that's the meaning of our acceleration, not only service but exactly, because without certain ways of reducing the inflow we're not going to be able to, we're going to need judges still this number and I think it's real enough to cut down one hundred judges by this number, but we have to drop and the objects to get to that level. But it's also important to be careful. Statistics, several times mentioned, there's no data here, of course, and I've intrigued you on purpose, I have to admit with... and in that part of Croatia stands well, it can be compared mechanically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you will also see in the statistics of the European Union those who want to read the opening part, he unfortunately skips especially from our media says and for the scoreboard and the simplest says this is not a rank list. These are collected data, they are placed according to certain value criteria but there clearly says why it is not a ranking list. Because justice systems and the judiciary are different and very difficult to compare. It can be seen from what system may be in something better and adapts, introduce something from that system, copy, connect to warm water, and do not invent other things. Some things are simply immeasurable. It is the same with the gross state product and the percentage of our contribution to the judiciary's own budget, it can be made according to different criteria of gross, net. Some countries have included contributions inside, some have not, etc. So there are some things very difficult to do. We include intellectual services in our budget and we show it outside. And intellectual services we don't literally take to court, we give it just as a service to the citizens, you have to have a mandatory defense, etc., so now I don't bother you with that, I believe you know that. Now, that might be my own kind of dipression on your remarks, messages, and they'll be understood that way. And two things in the end, two cases were mentioned individually, it's not good, and it's wrong, it's a message at the Frank that the Supreme Court is telling someone to judge now because of the Supreme Court's decision, 100,000 people have to judge. If we start judging without... You have to believe me that you will be the first to scream and say what this Supreme Court is doing and quite justifiable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't even go extra petite, let alone go ultra petite and still judge something you didn't ask for, etc. There should be careful with such messages, they are popular, they are populistly responding to the public but indeed it is a way to undermine this trust in the public of the work of the courts. Advocacy settlements mentioned by the distinguished representative also by Pupovac, you have now passed the law, you are in this law, I will now look at it in detail etc. There are also pre-determined settlements, but we will act within what you have decided here. You've given this to the jurisdiction of the courts... It is not again sufficient for those provisions to play a role and for the various believers and for the workers in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without them, it's very difficult to redesign. But look, we won't be able to go beyond the legal frameworks that have been passed here at last. So here's what I'm asking for one understanding, for one little maybe such, one support that I felt, well-intentioned, regardless of whether or not someone negative thought meant it out of obsessing, he didn't say it out of this, but just to make the system better, and I thank you for that, and here's the report in front of you, you're going to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113029	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nevenka Bečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113030	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, it was nice to hear you say in your presentation that the court or judiciary in its work is independent and responsible. I want to believe that this is the case, but if that is the case, then I would like you to explain to me how that same judiciary, or you, as a promoter of the rule of law, is allowed to violate Articles 48 and 50 from the day of the independence of the Republic of Croatia to this day. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Article 48 provides for the right of ownership and, at the same time, from 1997 to today, you are allowing the violation of Article 1. Protocol 1 to the Convention on European Rights and Freedoms. Unfortunately, I, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, cannot accept what you presented in your presentation in one part because if the European Court of Human Rights in its ruling which became power in October 2014 it concludes that the Republic of Croatia in continuity violates Article 1. Protocol 1 to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly. the right to enjoy property peacefully. Then how can I accept your information that you have now stated that our judiciary is independent and responsible? Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is being violated, and I will point out in particular that the property, private ownership of private apartments, has been forced against their will by the settlers and has been determined against their will by the amount of rent of 2.70 kuna. When will you and those who represent the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia finally apply the provisions of the Constitution to our legislation and implement them, as well as the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113031	Would you like to answer? Just get up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113032	We enter the sphere of therefore individual objects, regardless of what they are in principle, but you have the right to your opinion. If that's why you doubt independence, it's your right. And there's only one thing I forgot to say, I brought this in so I wouldn't say, I have the statistics of Strasbourg, but I brought in a paper cut that talks about the statistics of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and I'm going to repeat what I said here a few months ago when I was talking. Every injury we've been tried for personally and in pain and every judge and everyone you've ever said is a disgrace in some way, I may have said roughly and the court is correct. But look, the European Court of Human Rights rejects 97.3% of Croatia's citizens' lawsuits. From that number, I would conclude the opposite, so our decisions are quite legal and well-founded and in accordance with the convention and only quoting the number, whether these claims now have 2000, whether they will be 5,000, as long as the number of decisions that will be taken against Croatia is at this level, and it is 20-year-old, it is not so worrying. It's worrying every single one of them in the sense I've said, no injuries can be done. But we can't exaggerate some facts, and we're very happy to do that, we're forgetting this part. I repeat, I didn't want to bring this statistic, I brought what the journalists are, we know that journalists don't really like... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113033	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113034	Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority in 2014. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Justice Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the majority of votes were 96 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 2 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113035	We move on to the next two points of the agenda that we will discuss unitedly. These are - Final draft laws on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 844 - Final proposal of the law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 845 Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposals. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You've received reports. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are two laws before us, one law is the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, the other is the Law on the Chambers of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction. In fact, it is currently in force of a law that pooled both problems, a law that was passed in 2008. Why am I stressing this? In 2008, at that time, all our work of construction was absolutely in its great swing and in the desire to regulate the area, in order to establish certain legality and certain frameworks was passed a law which regulated it, among other things, that its activity in the exercise of authorised engineers or architects could not be carried out on its own but only in the company, so with the stamp of an authorised architect, or engineer, was also the printing of the company in which it works. Among other things, there were a number of things that companies involved in building were supposed to do, and that was how it worked on our climates. As Croatia enters the European Union on 1 July 2013, we operate within the European Union and within the framework of rules which apply. Among other things, the well - known situation is that construction senses recession first. Likewise, construction senses first leaving the recession. At that point, construction was indeed on very low levels for the known reasons of recession, and by entering the European Union, we felt that we were not really going to be some kind of climate that would be interesting for other builders, i.e. construction companies in the EU area. But that's not the case. We are, of course, becoming very interesting, and at the same time we met a few facts. The first fact was that, according to our construction engineers, these are, whether they are in spatial planning or building, much more stringent than some other EU countries are. The same fact that and compared to construction companies we are incomparably stricter where we asked for certain licenses. For these licences, they had to have a number of employees, they had to have certain equipment, but also proof that they had fulfilled all their financial obligations to the State. And it was seen that we are more incomparably stricter than some other countries and that by coming to our market, of course, they will be much more favourable to set up and restricting the element for our companies to go out, regardless of whether they are dealing with spatial arrangements, whether they are in construction or dealing with other activities, that by going out to the European market we, of course, already have in that part to say one weight around the leg. We have therefore worked since 1 January 2014 in the application of three laws. A Law on Spatial Planning, a Law on Construction, a Law on Building Inspection. It was our real desire to try to separate these laws before and shortly before we run and deliver to you for consideration. However, we did go to see that this is legislation in all countries, the rest of the EU countries. Maybe it's a chance for me to say a good-looking case that I've had so handsomely, for a big project that we're working on and that's going to work. It was an international tender for surveillance engineers in terms of the safety of the structure. This international competition was won by one company in one country that doesn't know it at all, because it's an absolute second class about earthquake zones, so that it's the safety of earthquakes that we have not known, and that's of course it's seen that something needs to be done. And we're done next. With this law we have defined the area of spatial planning, designing, construction control, construction activity and something that is quite important, which is to carry out research and previous research activities in order to ensure quality. So we're in a previous period and we're very often dealing with whether we have permits, whether we're building in accordance with the permits, whether we're here in terms of these elements we're absolutely satisfying. However, there was little less quality. We need really much more energy and effort of quality. So if we do quality research that precedes the design of the projects itself, that is to say, if we do quality tests of all the materials that are needed, then we can also ensure quality. And that's the one part we have to deal with. When it comes to construction, we have a truly envious reputation in the EU. Our construction companies have left behind a positive trail in other EU countries, and we must not ignore it at any time. We simply need to have and take care of quality. With this law, there are no more licenses for construction companies. So construction companies that meet the conditions can work. This law defines jobs, this law also has a single newspaper, and this paper is the head of the project. So, whether private investors will have a project manager or not, we leave it and leave it to a private investor. But when it comes to public investment, so when it comes to investments financed from the state budget and investment in infrastructure and other buildings of greater investment value than 10 million kuna, then the project manager is required. Similarly, if the investment of funds in building buildings is greater than 50 million kuna, the project manager is also required. There's one more thing that's been very, very restrictive with us. So, regarding the conditions when someone finished college, the second degree and the second degree and the second degree and when he started to work, then to be able to get permission, so that he could sign what he was doing was quite strictly regulated in a way that he should be employed, he should work for a certain time, he should have had his mentor to get even the conditions for passing an expert examination because this is a condition for him to be able to sign the project documentation. For example, there is a country in the Netherlands that we can all agree on has a very envious tradition especially when it comes to designing and architecture and all architects with a lot of envy watching what happens in the Netherlands. There even architecture can be dealt with by people who do not have formal education of architects, but have acquired knowledge during their work that would suit the knowledge of an architect. And now maybe it's convenient, so you always have a chance to read our arguments, so I'm taking the opportunity to maybe say some other things that might be convenient to say. And now imagine any situation when an architect works, I'm talking about architects because I'm an architect. When an architect who works in our field after graduating from college has to make it possible somewhere to formally be employed, to have two years of internship, so that he can pass a professional exam, that he can sign his projects anywhere and compete, and parallel to that from some other countries, they have incomparably greater benefits. What we did with this law, we said he had to prove he worked for two years. The evidence may have worked, say, three times a month on some kind of professional training abroad. We also recognize these 12 months of work that we do and in the ministry, let's say someone who works today at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning is an architect, working 12 months on a employment project without a working relationship. It goes into the experience he's gained. So all of the experiences that can prove that he was, which doesn't have to be entered even though we don't have work books in that formal way are the knowledge that he can handle and that knowledge is the basis for his passing an expert exam. So, what would be important to emphasize? It would be important to stress the following, if we were really trying to make it possible for our domestic forces, engineers working in this area regardless of whether they are electric engineers, engineers, building engineers or architects that they can relatively quickly obtain the conditions that they can actually work on their own. That what we have done with other EU countries is comparatively analysed and that no way can we be greater stepmothers to our people than they are when they go to work in the EU area, or that they can also be competitive. Because no matter what business the competitions are international, these international competitions are reported by all companies because they are all interested. So the recession in the building felt everyone before we did. And what I'm using in one way is one easy pleasure, which is that here for the first time in this quarter we have no more minus when it comes to construction than we have one stagnation, a slight shift and even more surprising or not surprising than the joyful data of the contracts that we have concluded because our domestic construction companies are clearly reoriented in another way of doing business and other values that we have. The same way this class is separated from, so we decided on two laws. Why did we decide on two laws? We decided for a simple reason to be more operational, to be faster, that if something needs to be changed in the Chamber Act, it's something simpler to do without entering the entire system of this law. So on these climates of ours, somewhere in '99, 2000, they form chambers. In the beginning, it was a chamber that united all engineers, therefore, electric engineers and engineering engineers and architects and construction engineers in one chamber. Over time, the chambers have separated and we have four chambers today. We also have the Chamber of Architects, the Chamber of Construction, the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Electrical Engineers. And just as this law when it comes to chambers is a built and defined way of working chambers, what they need to do. In the same way, in the chambers there were some different ways even the chamber presidents chose differently. This law allows and the intensity is further strengthening the competence of the role of chambers, strengthening the role of chambers related to knowledge. So, what we want, and we want the chambers to absolutely strengthen the knowledge of their members by their activities, to participate in all activities that are related to regulations but also to what we want the chamber to strengthen something that is monitoring the work of its membership. The authorisation philosophy has been changed. Therefore, since 1 January 2014, the philosophy of publishing and local and construction permits has been changed in a way that the offices that issue licences no longer enter into content but only enter into whether they satisfy all the things that should be in these projects. But the quality of the works is done in quality, whether all projects are done properly to suit the designer with their signature. So, by your expertise, by your knowledge, by your competence, by your experience, by your work so far. And here what we want to strengthen, we want to strengthen the work of the chamber and they are those who will control the individual competences and expertise of their members. Likewise, to exercise control over their work in terms of whether they are working properly, therefore not in formal but really and fundamentally, because it is an assessment that this should indeed be so. Similarly, from the very establishment of chambers to today, it has been 15 years, with this law all who participate in the construction process, and the construction process begins with spatial planning, and ends with a technical examination they join individual classes of the chamber and thus can ensure a certain status and a certain place in society. I would just like to say one thing for the end, there is one document brought by the Croatian government in 2013, called ApoliticA or Architectural Policy. I've been in this document since the beginning of the work. There are not many EU countries that have the document. It was my great wish when I was deputy minister, and later the minister that this document was brought by the Croatian Parliament, but so some legislative elements did not allow it regardless of our great desire, wishes are not always in line with reality. The document was brought by the Croatian government. It is a document that serves us absolutely with pride where you come to some forums related to the architectural profession in the EU very often this document that the Croatian government has brought as a document that is very quality and which speaks of the quality of construction, which speaks about the quality of the relationship to space. And for the first time in one law, we have the elements of that document embedded. It is the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction where for the first time we have elements from the ApoliticA embedded in terms of excellence, in terms of quality and in terms of preservation of space. This is another opportunity to say that the Croatian space is only 6.5%. 6.5% means built not only on buildings but also on entire infrastructure that is superior, which is relatively small. But when you know that it's much bigger than any other construction area, then it's absolutely an idea to protect that space. This space can also be protected by quality work, and quality work is provided by the laws that enable it. So it's extremely happy that in the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, for the first time, it's about the quality of construction in a way that what's in the ApoliticsA is several times apostropheeded here and built into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113037	Thank you. He had one replica signed up, a respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, I agree with you completely in the work in which you speak about the quality of the built space and the adoption of the ApoliticsA, so the architectural policies adopted by the Government and prescribed in a certain way in order to preserve space and make maximum use of the profession in the work in which it can contribute... space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he would not agree with you in the work of mentioning it for the first time and speaking in the Law on Jobs, that is, this law that we are making today. In this regard, it is you who, in the Law on Spatial Planning in Article 3. substances which have been introduced explicitly expressed the quality of space as a preservation and have tied yourself to architectural policies, and in this sense you wanted to conjecture the Law on the spatial arrangement that was adopted, although I remember then who was now saying that although we declared it in Article 3. that we later, through certain articles and normative arrangements of these articles, we did not fully respect it. I'll do that later when I speak for the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113039	The reply to the replica of Minister Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113040	That, indeed, in the Law of Spatial Planning, we mention the ApoliticsA but to tie the profession to the implementation of the ApoliticA and the virtue is an emphasis in this law, and therefore perhaps a little further ApoliticA emphasized.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113041	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please welcome the esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113042	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction have also done this job in a way that we have united these two bill proposals and at the 46th session held on 10 June as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee also held written remarks from the Croatian Chamber of Architects and the Croatian Association of Construction Engineers and their representatives were also on the board. The shortest said in the debate is the importance of strengthening the supervision of the work of authorised engineers in joint offices and other legal persons by chambers, as well as of the resolution ministry and extended by the membership of chambers or through the adoption of high professional standards within the scope of that activity. The need to encourage the development of the construction and spatial planning sector is highlighted, as well as the start-up of the economy, reviving economic activity and encouraging investment. The opinion was also expressed that construction leaders and workers should not be joined in the chamber because, as performers, they do not have public authority unlike designers and supervisory engineers. And the members of the board here can say this law has been supported unanimously and proposed by the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Also in the debate on the proposal of the Law on Jobs, Spatial Planning and Construction activities as a possible solution, it was also stated that persons responsible for the integrity and mutual coherence of projects should be projectors who have a dominant share in the design of certain buildings, authorised architects for buildings and buildings, landscapes and architectures, and authorised construction engineers who are dominated by construction works while authorised engineers of electrical engineering and engineering for buildings that are dominated by electrical engineering and engineering works. It is suggested that the obligation to pass an expert examination should also be binding on persons involved in the approval of construction and that the law provides for mandatory lifelong training and education. In addition to the chambers issuing certificates and keeping records of professional training, the opinion has also been given to professional associations, universities and universities. Here are also members of the board by majority vote six for and one abstention proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113043	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain reported. He's gone. His club is losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed Igor Coleman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113044	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers and assistant ministers. I'm going to start with spatial planning and construction, and I need to speak a little faster because there are two laws in time for one, so don't be angry. This is therefore the Law governing the performance of professional works and activities related to construction, spatial planning, supervision and management, as well as professional examinations and professional training and is aligned with relevant European directives. This harmonisation with the directives is particularly important in order to speed up the EU certification procedures for Croatian service providers in the countries of the European Economic Area, so that ours are also competitive in this area. And the law is also based on meeting a whole series of high principles, not discrimination, necessity and proportionality in regulating activity, competitiveness and development, and raising quality and reliability. And all in fact, the minister has already said a lot about this to ensure the quality of the built space, an important criterion, which unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we have not always held as well as we should. And of course it's not just all together. On the one hand, you need free access to the market of economic operators and, on the other hand, the need to meet the public interest and these two needs are not always easy and easy to reconcile. What is good to know is that the creation of this law included a number of interested entities from the professional chambers to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Association of Employers and Professionals that are regulated by this law are architectural, construction, engineering and electrical. And then a whole series of these activities are prescribed to carry out the professional tasks and activities of spatial planning, to carry out the tasks and activities of designing and professional supervision of construction, to carry out construction activities where we have an authorised construction manager, an authorised work manager and performer. There is one detail that may well point out because of the public that we have and probably still have quite a popular independent building, this law prescribes that a natural person who has completed a pre-graduate, professional or university study of architecture or construction and passed a professional examination if it is a family home with at least 70% of the area of the intended apartment, or with a maximum of two housing units for his own purposes. So this is what was mainly done in the construction itself only now that all those working alone will have to have completed the study and the expert exam. The following activity that is regulated is the management of the construction project, the minister said the manager's obligation to appoint public investors in the event of investments of more than 10 million in infrastructure and 50 million kuna in buildings, amounted to VAT-free, and the law also prescribes business studies and previous research. An important part of the proposal for this law, which we would like to particularly highlight, is Chapter 7, tasks, professions, expert exams and professional training. It is prescribed that the tasks of individual professions are. And a significant change from the law I want to make so far is to point out that architects also exercise the right to control the construction that the 2008 law could not. The law also regulates the obligation and way of passing an expert examination carried out by the ministry, this is also important under the regulations adopted by the minister or minister and regulates professional training that can be carried out by chambers, professional organisations, universities, universities, etc., etc. I would like to point out in particular that in this law provisions on continuous professional training have been tempered which will significantly increase the competitiveness of Croatian experts within the European Economic Area where the conditions for obtaining the authorisation are somewhat mild to express myself so mildly as they were with us. And lastly, I would like to highlight this law in the opinion of one of the most important individual news, which is that the previous consent to carry out the activities of citizens is abolished, or what is commonly called a licence. Most members of the European Economic Area do not have this rule but the classification of performers is done on the basis of procedures and regulations governing public procurement issues. This change will also be believed in this, we are sure to make it important to facilitate the integration of our economies into the EU market or European economic space. And we are also correcting the discrimination we have had so far because the conditions we asked our bidders could not ask foreigners who came to the Croatian market. This provision, which I have highlighted and all other provisions of this law, show and prove once again why the Ministry of Economy and Spatial Planning has become an important part of strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and reducing administrative barriers, so those things that we all swear on continuously while preserving and increasing the quality and quality of space and construction and the HNS will, we will support this law. The next law I'm going to talk about is this one about the chambers of architects and engineers. It is a law or substance regulated by that law that is set out in a special law. So far he's been part of this one-of-a-kind law. We keep saying, we as HNS but others that what we must bear in every respect is that Croatia is a young country, that our public administration is young, that our state administration is young, that the procedures and everything we do and do young and still at the stage of production. And the principle that is good and which should be applied and which is applied here is that based on the problems observed, we change the rules based on experience in practice, we change procedures and make them more useful, more efficient, better. The basic idea of this law is to strengthen the role of chambers of architects, engineers of construction, engineers of engineering and electrical engineering. When I say strengthening the role of chambers, then I primarily think about strengthening their public powers or extending their powers, creating a prerequisite for quality work, using expertise in making or changing regulations, this is particularly important and of course strengthening the supervision of the work of authorised engineers. Article 3.zakon clearly states that chambers cooperate with the authorities of the state administration in the process of making regulations, taking part in the work of working groups or by making proposals, observations and initiatives. And no less important than that, another intention of this law is to expand the membership of chambers so that as many engineers as possible are covered by professional training and monitoring of work control. It is important to stress that the concept of greater control of the expertise and execution of spatial planning and construction activities is also being introduced, partly by the Ministry, but to a large extent they are themselves professional chambers in charge of it in accordance with their specific competences. The whole idea of this surveillance is to keep it systematic, to be continued but that there are also checks based on random sampling and verification in case of suspicion. This is all important as of course because of the members of the chamber themselves, but perhaps even more so for the protection of public interest, for the protection of quality, for the protection of the quality of all these categories that we are likely to talk about today more often. Article 2 of the Law states that authorised architects, authorised architects of urbanists, authorised engineers, authorised citizens' leaders, authorised labour leaders are necessarily joined in the chamber and I repeat all of this in order to represent my own interests and also to protect the public interest and protect the interests of third parties. What I also want to point out is that the work of the chamber is public, it is subject to the rules on the right to access information, it is also not irrelevant to stress. The law also sets out precisely how chambers are set up and what the powers of individual bodies are, I have no intention of getting into that detail. But I only want to point out one thing which is not minor but is only one indent, in Article 13, which regulates the administrative, Article 13, which regulates the administrative boards of chambers among other things, to prescribe that one of their businesses is an assessment of the effects of the applicable regulations and the proposal of the authorities of the state administration of new bodies. I've pointed out more than once, but this whole principle of learning about mistakes and constantly correcting mistakes from practice will seem to me like the principle that needs to be applied and which is absolutely positive. I would also like to point out in Article 18 of the Law that the President of the Council of the Strong and High Court must be of the order of judges of regular courts. I suppose the intensity of this increased efficiency and expertise in the work which we can also do nothing but support. An important change is the establishment of the Centre for Peace, Article 19, which is set up as a replacement for the arbitration system that has proved to be an overcomplicated, overpriced, over-effective and this system of calming is certainly a more efficient and better solution. So, the Peace Centre, his idea is to provide civil, commercial, labour and other property legal disputes that he can come up with. There are a lot of public powers and chambers and I will not list them all but it is a whole series of relevant directories, registers, credentials, certificates but also a particularly important issue and confiscation of seals and powers, as well as the implementation of professional training and professional supervision. Speaking of professional training and professional supervision, this is an important part of this law, it is prescribed that education must be available to everyone, professionally based on the transfer of both their own and world experience. In the field of professional control, the chambers shall have the power to review the documentation, to take statements, to search for data and any other actions necessary for expert supervision. And on the basis of the results of the control of the chambers, it may give any direction to remove irregularities, whether or not to notify the competent authority if it is no longer competent for the situation concerned. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the penalties have been reduced, as has often been shown, that too many penalties have actually missed the goal and that the desired effects have not been achieved or followed at all. All of this together and the law of the one, let's say the main one and the one about the chambers and the third one that we will only later discuss today are assumptions to promote the development of construction and spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, resuscitation of economic activity and the promotion of investment. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in this business has already shown that there are excellent results both in breaking administrative barriers and in increasing efficiency and increasing quality. So all of those actually problems that we often highlight as key problems of the functioning of the Republic of Croatia. Only one example is the process of issuing building permits which is from an average duration of more than a year if I am not mistaken now in case everything is prepared and everything goes as it is now spoken of even for days. So it's a revolutionary shift. It was not an evolution that was definitely a revolution according to such a way of working, and these bill proposals. We'll get them, of course, the club of representatives of the HNS will, of course, support them. I've attached an amendment that only concerns, one mistake technically happened in the law-prescription, so there's an amendment that regulates it. In any case, we support these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113045	I thank you on behalf of the SDP club will speak to the respected Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113046	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honors Minister, Assistant Minister, Minister with Associates. Here I was preparing two discussions yesterday, so I'm one today, but here I am expecting all of you to be involved in this debate, because I'm not going to read it now because I believe that all of you will be affirmative on these proposals of both laws in terms of what you're doing and what you've brought forth by means of both laws, meaning the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and, of course, the Law on the Chamber of Architects, Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. I will refer, of course, to what the SDP Club has proposed, or submitted, to amendments to the Law on jobs, spatial planning and construction activities. Here is simply by referring to last session of the board, i.e. myself, and so I passed on to my club I did not accept the arguments that would go in the direction of the main designer to determine the investor. And I think we should just keep it as old as it is that the profession that does most of the work so that we have the main projects from that profession, or that chamber. Because I just can't accept that maybe an investor in some kind of ignorance picks the wrong designer and I believe that in terms of the arguments that we put on the board that you're going to accept this proposal from my club, the SDP club. Of course, here I also welcome and you did not say that, you reminded us that you are an architect and in that sense, and I welcome that you have corrected the great injustice that has so far been in previous legislation where architects couldn't even be supervisory engineers, not even a garage, no matter how banally it was. Here's a thank you to their profession for making things right and making things right. Everything you've done so far, here's my colleague Coleman said and the quick release of the licenses has been transferred to the profession, there should be no more exceptions for any of the officers to hold the items in the drawer or be afraid to take effect with the issue of any permit. These two laws are great, here you go... a little bit more affirmative so let's make it a little bit better and I believe it's to the general satisfaction of all the professions involved in these chambers. The SDP will, of course, accept both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113047	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, the esteemed Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister with your co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support both laws, both the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, with the final proposal of the law, and the Proposal for a Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Before that, I would say a few words in the introduction about the situation in construction, construction, the fact that the time of crisis has hit the most of the construction profession, that in the last 7 years over 50,000 less employees in construction, that there were 145,000 before the crisis, and now there are 90-92 000 employees, and that is certainly almost a third of the construction workers less than before. The reason for this is certainly the crisis that has hit Croatia and also Europe, and clearly that on this trail Croatian construction has also felt very much the problems of the lack of investment in the first row in the Republic of Croatia. But we can and rightly talk about objective circumstances that have led to the decline of activity in construction, but the fact is that we have contributed ourselves to certain actions to reduce the intensity of activities in construction on the one hand and part of what we did not seem to have done enough to the activities that relate to the sale of apartments, and then through the sale of apartments and the promotion of the construction of new apartments. Whether we're talking about housing or apartments that were built for sale, or those apartments we were planning on renting. In fact, some of the measures the government announced as it was a sales tax on real estate did not seem to have contributed in any case to the activation of housing. Furthermore, the wandering of the government in the section relating to the House Savings Act where we announced the suspension of subsidies and returned them again has certainly not contributed to it, and it seems to me that we should not have abolished the Law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of housing loans that could help young families in Croatia get to the apartment more easily, and I believe that the larger sale of apartments would have led to a certain degree of housing. I support this law, and the fact that from one law that is here is still in force is two laws. This does not change anything important, but I respect such a provision by the Minister or Government that the activities of chambers, professional chambers in architecture and construction are now being separated into a special law, it can be good. But more than that, I welcome the normative arrangement of this chamber law because it really wants to strengthen the position of chambers in both the training and the vocational education of architects and engineers in construction. I also welcome the fact that licenses are lifted, although I'm not sure the whole construction profession will fully accept it. In fact, licensing has defined in a certain way the strength, potential, possibilities of a particular construction company and then performed on the market. This did not lead to monopoly, but it was generally known that the license was determined, classified by a particular construction company. It is good that we have changed this because we are in line with the directive or with European legislation and that the conditions defined by the licence will now be regulated by public procurement or by regulations and public procurement rules will define the possibility of reporting to competitions for the performance of certain works. In any case, this is a contribution to our builders who were then in a discriminatory position when they put in front of them certain obligations imposed on them by the licence against foreign legal persons who could negotiate business in Croatia. But what I'm not sure is well solved, that's part of what he was talking about, and fellow Babic, he was wrong, you know. In fact, the existing law defines that the investor determines the main designer. Therefore, this law does not come out of the framework of the Construction Act, but I agree with what he wanted to say, and he did not say it to the end exactly, and that is to be left to the investor to determine the head designer, but not in the way this law provides. I think the investor should, however, be directed to determine the main project designer among the project leaders, and depending on the project and whose profession is most relevant in the project. It seems to me that, that should be a determination. We at the HDZ Club have not submitted the amendment. We knew it would be submitted by the SDP club. I don't know if this amendment has been most happily addressed, but I support the intention of that amendment. I think it primarily supports the architectural profession, so your profession, Madam Minister, and I don't think it goes to the expense of other professions primarily not builders, not engineers and not electric engineers in construction. Because it also makes sense to me that some demanding project in the section relating to the construction of a thermal power plant or, primarily, to be an electric engineering engineer, that when it comes to low-building to being a builder, when it comes to buildings in high construction, it should be an architect and thus be prescribed by the law to leave the investor with the right to choose, but to be directed by law and law obligations to a profession whose expertise prevails in a particular project. That seems like a good solution. What you probably know was that it was at the very session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction that was the dissatisfaction of the Croatian Chamber of Architects on such a solution in which they said that this was a solution that was determined against the main designer in a certain way to continue the deregulation of the profession and those methodologies that were set out in the a politics, in the a politics that you said earlier. I remain today in the position I was saying when we passed the Construction Act, and it seems to me that the Construction Act is in a certain way a truly impaired design methodology in Croatia. I'm not a designer, I'm not an architect, but as much as I'm following and as much as I can actively participate in this, I believe that there was not the happiest solution that the Construction Act has established, which is that the regulation of the law determines that there is no need to work on an idea project, that the implementation project for the second, third and fourth groups of buildings is becoming optional, that for large projects financed in the public sector there is no more need for the Committee for Architecture Success. Those three things I was saying when we were passing construction laws, and somewhere on that trail, it seems to me that this law is also said in the part where it's said that the main designer turns out to be not a creator. In fact, it was about this on our committee, that the main designer does not have to be a creator because the project is responsible for the project manager, and we know that the main project consists of 4 projects, architectural, construction project, engineering project and an electro-technical project. Therefore, regardless of which of the four designers chose to be an investor, it is the investor's right to designate the person he wants for the main projector. That's why I think the amendment made by the SDP club is welcome. If he's the best in the normative part, I think he can do it even better. I think the ministry could do it if it wants to accept this proposal, which was insisted by the Croatian Chamber of Architects, which we at the club support. I see that it also supports the SDP club, that it really is in such a way and that, yes, here is that until the vote on the law itself, the Government may do with its amendment what I am holding and what we in the Croatian Democratic Community Club hold to be the most appropriate. As far as the Chamber Act is concerned, we support the law's intention to establish the proactive role of chambers in implementing and creating public policies in both the area of construction and spatial planning. But I still forgot to say one part when we talk about the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction. Namely, I received a letter from the landscape architects in which they disagree with the law’s decision, which refers to the fact that the government, or the resolution ministry, entered into a public debate with one solution, and from a public debate when writing the bill with another solution. Apparently, it's supposed to be me who can't confirm it, but I want to point out because I think it's important. Apparently, the solution that entered the public debate spoke about an authorised architect, and that through the process of passing the law itself, further classifies it as an authorised architect – an urbanist. So the landscape architects say that once it has already gone into the division of powers within the architectural profession itself they hold that they should only remain on the formulation of the authorised architect and then, through the statute of the chamber, enable the definition of an individual segment of the architectural profession. In order for it to be good that once the ministry and the government decided to go into the specification of the authorised architect – the urbanists could, that could then be suggested, I did not suggest it, but I would like to present here in the debate their position that then the government should also be shown about the fact that an authorised landscape architect could have been given special authority because already today the construction of landscapes in architecture is very important in the construction of landscape parks etc. It has already reached that level that such a specification is also needed, for which there is a clear and specific department, etc., etc. So this dispute that was partly created by this law, which refers to architects and other engineers in construction, I would say in a certain way, has been shared within the architecture profession itself by the introduction of... the architect of the authority for the authorised architect of urbanists. Here, at the very end, Madam Minister, I said that we at the club would support this law, but here we expect that the part relating to the different arrangement of the main projector will still be designed and changed until the vote itself in a way that we can really bring this law to full consensus. As far as I know, the Ministry is having a public debate on the spatial planning strategy. We're at the club, and myself personally, we support that as soon as possible we bring in the Strategy of Spatial Planning. I hope the government won't play us like the MPs played with the adoption of the Transport Arrangement Strategy. I just couldn't believe that the Croatian government would pass the Croatian Parliament's strategy of transport regulation of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the document Transport Arrangement Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 1999, was discussed in the Croatian Parliament for 2 days. It is a really important document that fully determines the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia and through traffic development then and economic development of the Republic of Croatia because there is no quality development without quality infrastructure. It is a startling fact that the Transport Arrangement Strategy was adopted in the Government, I looked at the video from that session of the government, within three minutes of the presentation of the Secretary-General, the strategy was adopted without the participation of parliamentary representatives and I would say one of the most important strategic documents brought by the Croatian government. I am convinced that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction will make a commitment stemming from the Law on Spatial Planning and indeed bring that strategy to the Parliament to discuss it here I hope immediately after the summer. Here, in this sense, I welcome once again the adoption of the law and I appeal to Madam Minister that here you should respect this amendment or formulate it as it would be best to clearly determine the position of the main designer in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113049	Thank you. We'll hear the replica of Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113050	Here's a respected colleague, I have to thank you for supplementing my SDP amendment in terms of amendments to the addition of articles 49, 50, 51 and 52, and here's a clue to what you've said our club will certainly follow everything the government proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113051	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113052	Well, here's my thanks to my colleague Babic. We have been discussing our colleague Babic almost identically on the Committee on Space Planning, I agree with everything you have said. But I repeat, it should be said that this law has not changed the position of the projector in relation to the investor but has regulated the role of the main projector because I believe that the possibility of the investor setting it himself without the Parliament giving him certain gauges, that the law does not give him certain gauges that it is not good and that because of the quality of the project, because of the quality of the project, is due to the quality of the building, because of the quality of the arranged space that it is good for the first among the equals to be the one whose project, which is really the closest to its profession. And that's clear, justifiable to me, and I really don't have any more words to argue with what the two of us are saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113053	Now we're going to hear the individual debate of the esteemed representative of Mirala Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113054	Thank you, Vice President. So I will, in my individual debate, refer to what was just the end of my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, said counterpart Bacic. Namely, like my colleague Bačić, I also received comments from the Croatian Society of Regional Architects on this final proposal of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and the Chamber of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, on the basis of which I prepared amendments to these two draft laws. So I will use the debate to explain the reasons for the submission of these amendments and appeal to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction to accept them. The landscape architects were very unpleasantly surprised when they realized that the Chamber Law had been changed after passing all the levels of public and resolute debate. The law has been corrected so that before the document was sent to the Government, the term "authorised architect" of urbanist was added, which was played by the agreement that professional classes would be developed through the statute of the chamber, and in the law they would all be listed under the term "authorised architect". Regional architects warn that this amendment does not have the basis of the directive, which is Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/26/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EC) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System Regulation of IMI, which I state in the light of my amendment, since it defines the professional competences of architects, not separating definitions in specific directions, but opening different opportunities for discrimination against authorised landscape architects. In view of the provisions of the directive in question relating to the training of architects, landscape architecture differs in part of the prescribed knowledge, skills and competences for reasons necessary for the quality of the performance of professional tasks. Subject differences are used as a basis for non-recognition of discrimination in landscape architecture in legislation that regulates spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia and to the detriment of economic and spatial development. The fact that landscape architecture is recognised as a related activity by the World Architecture Association, which has recognised and respected the importance of different competences and provides for the harmonisation of disputed provisions in a new amendment to the directive in question. It is known to all interested stakeholders involved in the drafting of these laws, but it has been deliberately neglected. Good practice from other EU member states where landscapes, landscape architecture are clearly defined by national legislation is also not taken into account. The obligation of quality and sustainable landscape management, which is essential and quality of the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, has not only because of its responsibility to its citizens, but also as an obligation arising from the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on European Areas, which was adopted by the Republic of Croatia in 2004 and under which absolutely nothing has been done systemically so far. The amendments to the laws in question are a step towards better quality management of space and resources, and a step towards reducing the level of discrimination of one of the most important components of our environment, landscapes and professions, which is the only one sufficiently educated to deal with its regulation, planning and design. The importance of landscapes for sustainable development is also economic because the landscape is the area of food and wood mass production, energy distribution, mineral exploitation, ore, housing and rest, transport, transport industry and the like, because landscape with several natural elements of high degree of conservation and originality enables nature to be free of development, but it is also important to support the quality of economic use of space, it is also cultural because landscape reflects local and regional specificities as well as a careful attitude towards natural elements and represents a quality space for experiencing, staying and housing, resulting from the complexity and diversity of its internal arrangement and structure. Croatia, like the rest of the planet, has long been exposed to strong globalisation processes that covered all areas of human action including production processes and most products but almost all of the cultural sphere, equating... the way of life, but also the perception of the largest number of inhabitants on earth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rapid equation of agricultural production techniques, and the global application of almost the same spatial architectural models and concepts, are increasingly pronounced and synergy towards the trivialisation of landscapes as well as the loss of local and regional visibility. Changes in landscapes in Croatia are also linked to a number of other factors such as the conservative, pre-oliberal, non-oliberal economic policy which acts to reduce social control over space, denationalisation, unclear and insecure position of agriculture, liberalisation of the real estate market, non-coordinated law and jurisdiction, and the lack of adequate professional and professional cooperation. Since the process of continuing change in the structure and character of the cultural landscape in Croatia, it is especially important to mention the suburbanisation and relatively rapid disappearance of agricultural activity, as well as the abandonment of rural settlements on a large part of the continental but coastal part of Croatia's territory. So far, social incoordination has paved the way for a whole series of uncontrollable events in the area that directly affected the irrevocable loss of a large number of valuable landscapes and exceptional features in the entire territory of Croatia. We are aware of all of this in OraH, and we have developed a landscape policy in which it is extremely important that it has the very professional management of landscapes and that will not be possible if these two draft laws remain in the current format. I therefore appeal once again to the Proposer, to you ministers to consider and accept my amendments to these two draft laws and thus to ensure effective and professional protection and management of landscapes as the most valuable resource of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113055	Thank you very much. And the final secretary of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113056	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will speak only on two subjects, one topic is a major designer, and the other topic is a landscape architect. But before that, let me say something about the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia because the distinguished representative Bačić mentioned it. The strategy of the spatial organisation of the Republic of Croatia in the public debate, the public debate was launched on 15 June and will continue until 15 July, 15 June we were in Split, 17 June we were in Rijeka, 1 July we will be in Zagreb and 7 July we will have a final exhibition in Osijek with the fact that on 1 July when we are in Zagreb we have a public exposure to the strategic impact assessment of the environment that we are working together with the Strategy of Spatial Planning. We have sent a letter to the Croatian Parliament asking all MPs to be informed that we are with a strategy in the public debate. Likewise, we have also sent to committees that are higher, slightly more the topic of spatial order to them that the strategy is in public debate. The path that this strategy has in accordance with the provisions of the law to address all objections after a public debate, we get the consent of individual resolutions, goes to the government and then to the Parliament for discussion because it is a strategy for the spatial order of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. An important document, an important document, as this will result in a strategy of individual, sectoral, individual counties, cities, municipalities or individual agglomerations. So, as far as the strategy is concerned, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to mention and say that in response, I think that the crown of this ministry's work at this time is this strategy because it really speaks about where Croatia should be and go in 2030. We started these two laws at the end of 2013, since some March, in April 2014, he is in a public debate. There is a law on the assessment of the effects of regulations and we have done these two laws precisely by the book under that law, first we went with the thesis, several round tables, several previous discussions, several discussions on the law and there were a series of topics and a series of dilemmas. From the beginning, we have a subject of a major designer, and from the beginning we have a theme of a landscape architect. When it comes to landscape architects, this law solves 4 basic professions by architects, builders, engineers and electric engineers, engineers, electric engineers, architects are basic professions. With basic professions, we have suitable professions. These are the professions that participate in the design process, but not in the sense that they sign the project, but in the sense that they are doing the elaborates and that they sign the elaborates of course. There are traffic engineers, there are chemical technicians, there are geotechnics there are various professions that are educated at the Faculty of Varazdin, in Split, something in Zagreb, something in Osijek even something in Rijeka that is not basic professions but are suitable professions. Regional architects are equally educated for certain tasks, they are not a basic profession, but they are an appropriate profession and in Article 49.zakona says that the professions authorised to perform authorised landscape architects are arranged by the statute of the chamber in which authorised architects are joined. They go to another university, get a certain degree, have certain things, participate in the planning process, participate in the design process, but not as a basic profession, but as an appropriate profession. And that is how the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction and this Law is also being drawn up. The main designer has been the subject since the very beginning. The chief designer, we discussed the subject with all the professions. I must admit that I personally found myself in a dilemma when it was necessary to assess who was the airport's chief designer. The airport consists of an airport building, consisting of very demanding infrastructures that are both underground and underground, consisting of a runway, consisting of all access roads and then the investor chose one major designer, and we argued in the ministry based on analysis and foundation which would be dominant that he must be the second major designer, and the one we rated as the main designer did not want to be. So that was why we at one point opted for an option that had the law. Article 52 The construction law says the main projector is choosing an investor. We'll really think about this amendment one more time because it's worth thinking about, you should think about it if you get a series of things that you should think about we'll do it. However, the main designer in the way the amendment is addressed is the question of who chooses what is dominant. The example of this for the airport investor has concluded that the main designer should be a construction engineer, and we have concluded that he should be an architect. And finally, the architect very reluctantly signed that he is a major designer because when you combine this together, some infrastructures are much less dominant even though architecture is most visible. So it's really one area that's very sensitive. Every debate, the public debate we had on the law has always ended about this way, we will once again see the experiences we have and what would be best for this proposal and to settle all these options. Who will to whom, but to their own, the architect of the architect. I'm kidding. This is why the discussion is the topic of the strategy and indeed on 1st July in Zagreb public debate is good to participate is good to be. And as for these two things when it comes to landscape architects, they are not fundamental, but they are an appropriate profession and in this way and defined, and we will really think about this amendment one more time and see what we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113057	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113058	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I respect what you've... done very quickly and come to the Assembly with a strategy, but now I'm using the opportunity to say that I expect that the state's spatial development plan will probably bring it in within, it would be good. Not because it is so necessary in some other segments of social economic life in Croatia but because I think the debate on the adoption of a state spatial development plan would significantly determine the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, because it is written in the law that state spatial development plan also defines locations for the deployment of research platforms. So I think that the adoption of this law would be very limited, i.e. lead to a Croatian public debate on this very important segment of the Croatian economy, which is the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I argue today that it is not possible to place any research platform on the Adriatic until your ministry until the government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a state plan for spatial development is possible or investigative, let alone exploitative. Therefore, the state spatial development plan would only then open a real and quality debate on what the government is doing without that state spatial development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113059	Answer to the replica of Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113060	Thank you very much. So by respecting all the provisions of the law, we can make a decision on the creation of a state spatial plan only after we refer the strategy to the Parliament for adoption. We do all the previous papers as if everything was there and I am truly deeply convinced that we will do everything possible as soon as the Parliament starts to sit in the autumn to have the strategy here so that we can formally make a decision on making a state spatial plan. A series of previous things we have already done, we have hired county institutions, we have done an analysis so that we will need a little time to prepare a plan for a public debate and I am personally looking forward to this public debate where the way and things that are important for the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia will be shown to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113061	Now I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on the bill's proposals later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113062	Now we're going to decide on the cases, the acts that we've completed the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers and in construction and spatial planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 844. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Honorable Representative Mirela Holly. I would like to ask representative Zeljko Uhlir, Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to show about amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113063	Thank you. The amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 2 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113064	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 12
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113065	Amendment No 2 to Article 12 The Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113066	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 3 to Article 66 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113067	Amendment No 3 to Article 66 The Legislative Committee shall be adopted in amended form. For example, Article 66 of paragraphs 3 and 4 discusses the 4th stage of the ESS, qualifications and is proposed only to leave the 4th stage, and in further consultations with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the exact formulation should be the level 4.2 of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and we propose to adopt in the amended form of amendments to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113068	Thank you very much. He accepts the board, the chairman of the board. Thank you very much. In the amended form, it became an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment No 4 to Article 71 of the same Committee, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113069	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113070	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. We have exhausted the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to the amendments to the respected MPs of Mirala Holly. Amendment No 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113071	The amendment to Article 1 shall not be accepted and that is because the approved representative proposed, in fact, throughout the text of the law in question, the introduction of authorised landscape architects as basic professions in the affairs of spatial arrangement and their association in the chamber in a special directory. The same cannot be accepted because it is not one of the basic professions governed by the final proposal of the law in business and activities, but it is only one segment of the tasks of the architectural profession, but it is not a regulated profession, and then we could invariably expand the professions that we will recognise in the construction process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113072	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113073	Thank you, Your Honor. So I would just like to emphasise that during the public debate this law looked in a slightly different form, i.e. the term authorised architect covering different professional directions and the professional direction of architects and the professional direction of architects of urban and professional direction and the professional direction of landscape architects and the professional direction of architects of internal architecture and in this sense it was naturally acceptable. Here I would like to emphasise that, let's say, the architects of urbanists are not competent to, say, implement certain projects related to landscape architecture projects and, in this way, are actually discredited and discriminated by an entire profession. I would like to stress here that a whole series of external institutions, chambers, landscape architects reacted very negatively to what happened between the two readings of this law because it was acceptable for landscape architects what was regulated at the very beginning or during the public debate, which is that the term authorised architect is used. So I urge you to correct it anyway and accept it because this is how you're going to cause a very big mess. And the fact is that when landscape architecture is dealt with by architects, urbanists happen really different funny situations where, for example, they happen. Mediterranean plants that cannot succeed in continental areas soar across different parks and similar to what is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113074	You're asking for a vote from a respected MP? ... Yes, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please vote on the amendment of the respected MP Mirela Holly, who is not accepted by the government. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm confirming that he hasn't received the amendment to the required majority. Amendment number two of the respected MPs, Mirela Holly, also, a respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113075	Amendment number 2 is also not accepted for the same reasons because the entire law implements the introduction of an authorised architect or authorised landscape architect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113076	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113077	So I suggest since I don't want to harass my colleagues and colleagues that if it's possible to vote collectively on all the amendments since... impossible? ... And then I think I'm going to ask for a vote on all the amendments because I think it would be okay if we voted collectively because it's the same matter, so change or add this term. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113078	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113079	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113080	Yes, thank you very much. We will now vote on amendment number two of the respected MPs of Mirala Holly, whom the government does not accept. Dear Deputy Minister, we have a proposal, if you refuse all amendments, then you must declare that you reject all amendments because this is proposed by the applicant for the amendment. We can only speed up on condition that you declare whether you accept any of the amendments or do not accept and say that you reject all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113081	Thank you. All proposed amendments by Mirela Holy are being rejected because they go in the same direction, so the authorised landscape architect wants to be in a law that does not foresee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113082	Thank you very much. Please submit to the amendment, ask only for a vote on all amendments. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask you to plead with me on all the proposed amendments to the honourable representative of Mirala Holly, which the government does not accept. Vote. I find that the amendments have not received the necessary majority. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 92 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 1 vote against the adopted Law on the Chamber of Architects and the Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113083	We move on to the next two points of the agenda that we will discuss unitedly. These are - Final draft laws on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 844 - Final proposal of the law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 845 Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposals. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You've received reports. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are two laws before us, one law is the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, the other is the Law on the Chambers of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction. In fact, it is currently in force of a law that pooled both problems, a law that was passed in 2008. Why am I stressing this? In 2008, at that time, all our work of construction was absolutely in its great swing and in the desire to regulate the area, in order to establish certain legality and certain frameworks was passed a law which regulated it, among other things, that its activity in the exercise of authorised engineers or architects could not be carried out on its own but only in the company, so with the stamp of an authorised architect, or engineer, was also the printing of the company in which it works. Among other things, there were a number of things that companies involved in building were supposed to do, and that was how it worked on our climates. As Croatia enters the European Union on 1 July 2013, we operate within the European Union and within the framework of rules which apply. Among other things, the well - known situation is that construction senses recession first. Likewise, construction senses first leaving the recession. At that point, construction was indeed on very low levels for the known reasons of recession, and by entering the European Union, we felt that we were not really going to be some kind of climate that would be interesting for other builders, i.e. construction companies in the EU area. But that's not the case. We are, of course, becoming very interesting, and at the same time we met a few facts. The first fact was that, according to our construction engineers, these are, whether they are in spatial planning or building, much more stringent than some other EU countries are. The same fact that and compared to construction companies we are incomparably stricter where we asked for certain licenses. For these licences, they had to have a number of employees, they had to have certain equipment, but also proof that they had fulfilled all their financial obligations to the State. And it was seen that we are more incomparably stricter than some other countries and that by coming to our market, of course, they will be much more favourable to set up and restricting the element for our companies to go out, regardless of whether they are dealing with spatial arrangements, whether they are in construction or dealing with other activities, that by going out to the European market we, of course, already have in that part to say one weight around the leg. We have therefore worked since 1 January 2014 in the application of three laws. A Law on Spatial Planning, a Law on Construction, a Law on Building Inspection. It was our real desire to try to separate these laws before and shortly before we run and deliver to you for consideration. However, we did go to see that this is legislation in all countries, the rest of the EU countries. Maybe it's a chance for me to say a good-looking case that I've had so handsomely, for a big project that we're working on and that's going to work. It was an international tender for surveillance engineers in terms of the safety of the structure. This international competition was won by one company in one country that doesn't know it at all, because it's an absolute second class about earthquake zones, so that it's the safety of earthquakes that we have not known, and that's of course it's seen that something needs to be done. And we're done next. With this law we have defined the area of spatial planning, designing, construction control, construction activity and something that is quite important, which is to carry out research and previous research activities in order to ensure quality. So we're in a previous period and we're very often dealing with whether we have permits, whether we're building in accordance with the permits, whether we're here in terms of these elements we're absolutely satisfying. However, there was little less quality. We need really much more energy and effort of quality. So if we do quality research that precedes the design of the projects itself, that is to say, if we do quality tests of all the materials that are needed, then we can also ensure quality. And that's the one part we have to deal with. When it comes to construction, we have a truly envious reputation in the EU. Our construction companies have left behind a positive trail in other EU countries, and we must not ignore it at any time. We simply need to have and take care of quality. With this law, there are no more licenses for construction companies. So construction companies that meet the conditions can work. This law defines jobs, this law also has a single newspaper, and this paper is the head of the project. So, whether private investors will have a project manager or not, we leave it and leave it to a private investor. But when it comes to public investment, so when it comes to investments financed from the state budget and investment in infrastructure and other buildings of greater investment value than 10 million kuna, then the project manager is required. Similarly, if the investment of funds in building buildings is greater than 50 million kuna, the project manager is also required. There's one more thing that's been very, very restrictive with us. So, regarding the conditions when someone finished college, the second degree and the second degree and the second degree and when he started to work, then to be able to get permission, so that he could sign what he was doing was quite strictly regulated in a way that he should be employed, he should work for a certain time, he should have had his mentor to get even the conditions for passing an expert examination because this is a condition for him to be able to sign the project documentation. For example, there is a country in the Netherlands that we can all agree on has a very envious tradition especially when it comes to designing and architecture and all architects with a lot of envy watching what happens in the Netherlands. There even architecture can be dealt with by people who do not have formal education of architects, but have acquired knowledge during their work that would suit the knowledge of an architect. And now maybe it's convenient, so you always have a chance to read our arguments, so I'm taking the opportunity to maybe say some other things that might be convenient to say. And now imagine any situation when an architect works, I'm talking about architects because I'm an architect. When an architect who works in our field after graduating from college has to make it possible somewhere to formally be employed, to have two years of internship, so that he can pass a professional exam, that he can sign his projects anywhere and compete, and parallel to that from some other countries, they have incomparably greater benefits. What we did with this law, we said he had to prove he worked for two years. The evidence may have worked, say, three times a month on some kind of professional training abroad. We also recognize these 12 months of work that we do and in the ministry, let's say someone who works today at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning is an architect, working 12 months on a employment project without a working relationship. It goes into the experience he's gained. So all of the experiences that can prove that he was, which doesn't have to be entered even though we don't have work books in that formal way are the knowledge that he can handle and that knowledge is the basis for his passing an expert exam. So, what would be important to emphasize? It would be important to stress the following, if we were really trying to make it possible for our domestic forces, engineers working in this area regardless of whether they are electric engineers, engineers, building engineers or architects that they can relatively quickly obtain the conditions that they can actually work on their own. That what we have done with other EU countries is comparatively analysed and that no way can we be greater stepmothers to our people than they are when they go to work in the EU area, or that they can also be competitive. Because no matter what business the competitions are international, these international competitions are reported by all companies because they are all interested. So the recession in the building felt everyone before we did. And what I'm using in one way is one easy pleasure, which is that here for the first time in this quarter we have no more minus when it comes to construction than we have one stagnation, a slight shift and even more surprising or not surprising than the joyful data of the contracts that we have concluded because our domestic construction companies are clearly reoriented in another way of doing business and other values that we have. The same way this class is separated from, so we decided on two laws. Why did we decide on two laws? We decided for a simple reason to be more operational, to be faster, that if something needs to be changed in the Chamber Act, it's something simpler to do without entering the entire system of this law. So on these climates of ours, somewhere in '99, 2000, they form chambers. In the beginning, it was a chamber that united all engineers, therefore, electric engineers and engineering engineers and architects and construction engineers in one chamber. Over time, the chambers have separated and we have four chambers today. We also have the Chamber of Architects, the Chamber of Construction, the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Electrical Engineers. And just as this law when it comes to chambers is a built and defined way of working chambers, what they need to do. In the same way, in the chambers there were some different ways even the chamber presidents chose differently. This law allows and the intensity is further strengthening the competence of the role of chambers, strengthening the role of chambers related to knowledge. So, what we want, and we want the chambers to absolutely strengthen the knowledge of their members by their activities, to participate in all activities that are related to regulations but also to what we want the chamber to strengthen something that is monitoring the work of its membership. The authorisation philosophy has been changed. Therefore, since 1 January 2014, the philosophy of publishing and local and construction permits has been changed in a way that the offices that issue licences no longer enter into content but only enter into whether they satisfy all the things that should be in these projects. But the quality of the works is done in quality, whether all projects are done properly to suit the designer with their signature. So, by your expertise, by your knowledge, by your competence, by your experience, by your work so far. And here what we want to strengthen, we want to strengthen the work of the chamber and they are those who will control the individual competences and expertise of their members. Likewise, to exercise control over their work in terms of whether they are working properly, therefore not in formal but really and fundamentally, because it is an assessment that this should indeed be so. Similarly, from the very establishment of chambers to today, it has been 15 years, with this law all who participate in the construction process, and the construction process begins with spatial planning, and ends with a technical examination they join individual classes of the chamber and thus can ensure a certain status and a certain place in society. I would just like to say one thing for the end, there is one document brought by the Croatian government in 2013, called ApoliticA or Architectural Policy. I've been in this document since the beginning of the work. There are not many EU countries that have the document. It was my great wish when I was deputy minister, and later the minister that this document was brought by the Croatian Parliament, but so some legislative elements did not allow it regardless of our great desire, wishes are not always in line with reality. The document was brought by the Croatian government. It is a document that serves us absolutely with pride where you come to some forums related to the architectural profession in the EU very often this document that the Croatian government has brought as a document that is very quality and which speaks of the quality of construction, which speaks about the quality of the relationship to space. And for the first time in one law, we have the elements of that document embedded. It is the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction where for the first time we have elements from the ApoliticA embedded in terms of excellence, in terms of quality and in terms of preservation of space. This is another opportunity to say that the Croatian space is only 6.5%. 6.5% means built not only on buildings but also on entire infrastructure that is superior, which is relatively small. But when you know that it's much bigger than any other construction area, then it's absolutely an idea to protect that space. This space can also be protected by quality work, and quality work is provided by the laws that enable it. So it's extremely happy that in the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, for the first time, it's about the quality of construction in a way that what's in the ApoliticsA is several times apostropheeded here and built into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113085	Thank you. He had one replica signed up, a respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, I agree with you completely in the work in which you speak about the quality of the built space and the adoption of the ApoliticsA, so the architectural policies adopted by the Government and prescribed in a certain way in order to preserve space and make maximum use of the profession in the work in which it can contribute... space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he would not agree with you in the work of mentioning it for the first time and speaking in the Law on Jobs, that is, this law that we are making today. In this regard, it is you who, in the Law on Spatial Planning in Article 3. substances which have been introduced explicitly expressed the quality of space as a preservation and have tied yourself to architectural policies, and in this sense you wanted to conjecture the Law on the spatial arrangement that was adopted, although I remember then who was now saying that although we declared it in Article 3. that we later, through certain articles and normative arrangements of these articles, we did not fully respect it. I'll do that later when I speak for the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113087	The reply to the replica of Minister Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113088	That, indeed, in the Law of Spatial Planning, we mention the ApoliticsA but to tie the profession to the implementation of the ApoliticA and the virtue is an emphasis in this law, and therefore perhaps a little further ApoliticA emphasized.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113089	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please welcome the esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113090	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction have also done this job in a way that we have united these two bill proposals and at the 46th session held on 10 June as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee also held written remarks from the Croatian Chamber of Architects and the Croatian Association of Construction Engineers and their representatives were also on the board. The shortest said in the debate is the importance of strengthening the supervision of the work of authorised engineers in joint offices and other legal persons by chambers, as well as of the resolution ministry and extended by the membership of chambers or through the adoption of high professional standards within the scope of that activity. The need to encourage the development of the construction and spatial planning sector is highlighted, as well as the start-up of the economy, reviving economic activity and encouraging investment. The opinion was also expressed that construction leaders and workers should not be joined in the chamber because, as performers, they do not have public authority unlike designers and supervisory engineers. And the members of the board here can say this law has been supported unanimously and proposed by the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Also in the debate on the proposal of the Law on Jobs, Spatial Planning and Construction activities as a possible solution, it was also stated that persons responsible for the integrity and mutual coherence of projects should be projectors who have a dominant share in the design of certain buildings, authorised architects for buildings and buildings, landscapes and architectures, and authorised construction engineers who are dominated by construction works while authorised engineers of electrical engineering and engineering for buildings that are dominated by electrical engineering and engineering works. It is suggested that the obligation to pass an expert examination should also be binding on persons involved in the approval of construction and that the law provides for mandatory lifelong training and education. In addition to the chambers issuing certificates and keeping records of professional training, the opinion has also been given to professional associations, universities and universities. Here are also members of the board by majority vote six for and one abstention proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113091	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain reported. He's gone. His club is losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed Igor Coleman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113092	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers and assistant ministers. I'm going to start with spatial planning and construction, and I need to speak a little faster because there are two laws in time for one, so don't be angry. This is therefore the Law governing the performance of professional works and activities related to construction, spatial planning, supervision and management, as well as professional examinations and professional training and is aligned with relevant European directives. This harmonisation with the directives is particularly important in order to speed up the EU certification procedures for Croatian service providers in the countries of the European Economic Area, so that ours are also competitive in this area. And the law is also based on meeting a whole series of high principles, not discrimination, necessity and proportionality in regulating activity, competitiveness and development, and raising quality and reliability. And all in fact, the minister has already said a lot about this to ensure the quality of the built space, an important criterion, which unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we have not always held as well as we should. And of course it's not just all together. On the one hand, you need free access to the market of economic operators and, on the other hand, the need to meet the public interest and these two needs are not always easy and easy to reconcile. What is good to know is that the creation of this law included a number of interested entities from the professional chambers to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Association of Employers and Professionals that are regulated by this law are architectural, construction, engineering and electrical. And then a whole series of these activities are prescribed to carry out the professional tasks and activities of spatial planning, to carry out the tasks and activities of designing and professional supervision of construction, to carry out construction activities where we have an authorised construction manager, an authorised work manager and performer. There is one detail that may well point out because of the public that we have and probably still have quite a popular independent building, this law prescribes that a natural person who has completed a pre-graduate, professional or university study of architecture or construction and passed a professional examination if it is a family home with at least 70% of the area of the intended apartment, or with a maximum of two housing units for his own purposes. So this is what was mainly done in the construction itself only now that all those working alone will have to have completed the study and the expert exam. The following activity that is regulated is the management of the construction project, the minister said the manager's obligation to appoint public investors in the event of investments of more than 10 million in infrastructure and 50 million kuna in buildings, amounted to VAT-free, and the law also prescribes business studies and previous research. An important part of the proposal for this law, which we would like to particularly highlight, is Chapter 7, tasks, professions, expert exams and professional training. It is prescribed that the tasks of individual professions are. And a significant change from the law I want to make so far is to point out that architects also exercise the right to control the construction that the 2008 law could not. The law also regulates the obligation and way of passing an expert examination carried out by the ministry, this is also important under the regulations adopted by the minister or minister and regulates professional training that can be carried out by chambers, professional organisations, universities, universities, etc., etc. I would like to point out in particular that in this law provisions on continuous professional training have been tempered which will significantly increase the competitiveness of Croatian experts within the European Economic Area where the conditions for obtaining the authorisation are somewhat mild to express myself so mildly as they were with us. And lastly, I would like to highlight this law in the opinion of one of the most important individual news, which is that the previous consent to carry out the activities of citizens is abolished, or what is commonly called a licence. Most members of the European Economic Area do not have this rule but the classification of performers is done on the basis of procedures and regulations governing public procurement issues. This change will also be believed in this, we are sure to make it important to facilitate the integration of our economies into the EU market or European economic space. And we are also correcting the discrimination we have had so far because the conditions we asked our bidders could not ask foreigners who came to the Croatian market. This provision, which I have highlighted and all other provisions of this law, show and prove once again why the Ministry of Economy and Spatial Planning has become an important part of strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and reducing administrative barriers, so those things that we all swear on continuously while preserving and increasing the quality and quality of space and construction and the HNS will, we will support this law. The next law I'm going to talk about is this one about the chambers of architects and engineers. It is a law or substance regulated by that law that is set out in a special law. So far he's been part of this one-of-a-kind law. We keep saying, we as HNS but others that what we must bear in every respect is that Croatia is a young country, that our public administration is young, that our state administration is young, that the procedures and everything we do and do young and still at the stage of production. And the principle that is good and which should be applied and which is applied here is that based on the problems observed, we change the rules based on experience in practice, we change procedures and make them more useful, more efficient, better. The basic idea of this law is to strengthen the role of chambers of architects, engineers of construction, engineers of engineering and electrical engineering. When I say strengthening the role of chambers, then I primarily think about strengthening their public powers or extending their powers, creating a prerequisite for quality work, using expertise in making or changing regulations, this is particularly important and of course strengthening the supervision of the work of authorised engineers. Article 3.zakon clearly states that chambers cooperate with the authorities of the state administration in the process of making regulations, taking part in the work of working groups or by making proposals, observations and initiatives. And no less important than that, another intention of this law is to expand the membership of chambers so that as many engineers as possible are covered by professional training and monitoring of work control. It is important to stress that the concept of greater control of the expertise and execution of spatial planning and construction activities is also being introduced, partly by the Ministry, but to a large extent they are themselves professional chambers in charge of it in accordance with their specific competences. The whole idea of this surveillance is to keep it systematic, to be continued but that there are also checks based on random sampling and verification in case of suspicion. This is all important as of course because of the members of the chamber themselves, but perhaps even more so for the protection of public interest, for the protection of quality, for the protection of the quality of all these categories that we are likely to talk about today more often. Article 2 of the Law states that authorised architects, authorised architects of urbanists, authorised engineers, authorised citizens' leaders, authorised labour leaders are necessarily joined in the chamber and I repeat all of this in order to represent my own interests and also to protect the public interest and protect the interests of third parties. What I also want to point out is that the work of the chamber is public, it is subject to the rules on the right to access information, it is also not irrelevant to stress. The law also sets out precisely how chambers are set up and what the powers of individual bodies are, I have no intention of getting into that detail. But I only want to point out one thing which is not minor but is only one indent, in Article 13, which regulates the administrative, Article 13, which regulates the administrative boards of chambers among other things, to prescribe that one of their businesses is an assessment of the effects of the applicable regulations and the proposal of the authorities of the state administration of new bodies. I've pointed out more than once, but this whole principle of learning about mistakes and constantly correcting mistakes from practice will seem to me like the principle that needs to be applied and which is absolutely positive. I would also like to point out in Article 18 of the Law that the President of the Council of the Strong and High Court must be of the order of judges of regular courts. I suppose the intensity of this increased efficiency and expertise in the work which we can also do nothing but support. An important change is the establishment of the Centre for Peace, Article 19, which is set up as a replacement for the arbitration system that has proved to be an overcomplicated, overpriced, over-effective and this system of calming is certainly a more efficient and better solution. So, the Peace Centre, his idea is to provide civil, commercial, labour and other property legal disputes that he can come up with. There are a lot of public powers and chambers and I will not list them all but it is a whole series of relevant directories, registers, credentials, certificates but also a particularly important issue and confiscation of seals and powers, as well as the implementation of professional training and professional supervision. Speaking of professional training and professional supervision, this is an important part of this law, it is prescribed that education must be available to everyone, professionally based on the transfer of both their own and world experience. In the field of professional control, the chambers shall have the power to review the documentation, to take statements, to search for data and any other actions necessary for expert supervision. And on the basis of the results of the control of the chambers, it may give any direction to remove irregularities, whether or not to notify the competent authority if it is no longer competent for the situation concerned. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the penalties have been reduced, as has often been shown, that too many penalties have actually missed the goal and that the desired effects have not been achieved or followed at all. All of this together and the law of the one, let's say the main one and the one about the chambers and the third one that we will only later discuss today are assumptions to promote the development of construction and spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, resuscitation of economic activity and the promotion of investment. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in this business has already shown that there are excellent results both in breaking administrative barriers and in increasing efficiency and increasing quality. So all of those actually problems that we often highlight as key problems of the functioning of the Republic of Croatia. Only one example is the process of issuing building permits which is from an average duration of more than a year if I am not mistaken now in case everything is prepared and everything goes as it is now spoken of even for days. So it's a revolutionary shift. It was not an evolution that was definitely a revolution according to such a way of working, and these bill proposals. We'll get them, of course, the club of representatives of the HNS will, of course, support them. I've attached an amendment that only concerns, one mistake technically happened in the law-prescription, so there's an amendment that regulates it. In any case, we support these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113093	I thank you on behalf of the SDP club will speak to the respected Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113094	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honors Minister, Assistant Minister, Minister with Associates. Here I was preparing two discussions yesterday, so I'm one today, but here I am expecting all of you to be involved in this debate, because I'm not going to read it now because I believe that all of you will be affirmative on these proposals of both laws in terms of what you're doing and what you've brought forth by means of both laws, meaning the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and, of course, the Law on the Chamber of Architects, Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. I will refer, of course, to what the SDP Club has proposed, or submitted, to amendments to the Law on jobs, spatial planning and construction activities. Here is simply by referring to last session of the board, i.e. myself, and so I passed on to my club I did not accept the arguments that would go in the direction of the main designer to determine the investor. And I think we should just keep it as old as it is that the profession that does most of the work so that we have the main projects from that profession, or that chamber. Because I just can't accept that maybe an investor in some kind of ignorance picks the wrong designer and I believe that in terms of the arguments that we put on the board that you're going to accept this proposal from my club, the SDP club. Of course, here I also welcome and you did not say that, you reminded us that you are an architect and in that sense, and I welcome that you have corrected the great injustice that has so far been in previous legislation where architects couldn't even be supervisory engineers, not even a garage, no matter how banally it was. Here's a thank you to their profession for making things right and making things right. Everything you've done so far, here's my colleague Coleman said and the quick release of the licenses has been transferred to the profession, there should be no more exceptions for any of the officers to hold the items in the drawer or be afraid to take effect with the issue of any permit. These two laws are great, here you go... a little bit more affirmative so let's make it a little bit better and I believe it's to the general satisfaction of all the professions involved in these chambers. The SDP will, of course, accept both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113095	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, the esteemed Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister with your co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support both laws, both the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, with the final proposal of the law, and the Proposal for a Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Before that, I would say a few words in the introduction about the situation in construction, construction, the fact that the time of crisis has hit the most of the construction profession, that in the last 7 years over 50,000 less employees in construction, that there were 145,000 before the crisis, and now there are 90-92 000 employees, and that is certainly almost a third of the construction workers less than before. The reason for this is certainly the crisis that has hit Croatia and also Europe, and clearly that on this trail Croatian construction has also felt very much the problems of the lack of investment in the first row in the Republic of Croatia. But we can and rightly talk about objective circumstances that have led to the decline of activity in construction, but the fact is that we have contributed ourselves to certain actions to reduce the intensity of activities in construction on the one hand and part of what we did not seem to have done enough to the activities that relate to the sale of apartments, and then through the sale of apartments and the promotion of the construction of new apartments. Whether we're talking about housing or apartments that were built for sale, or those apartments we were planning on renting. In fact, some of the measures the government announced as it was a sales tax on real estate did not seem to have contributed in any case to the activation of housing. Furthermore, the wandering of the government in the section relating to the House Savings Act where we announced the suspension of subsidies and returned them again has certainly not contributed to it, and it seems to me that we should not have abolished the Law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of housing loans that could help young families in Croatia get to the apartment more easily, and I believe that the larger sale of apartments would have led to a certain degree of housing. I support this law, and the fact that from one law that is here is still in force is two laws. This does not change anything important, but I respect such a provision by the Minister or Government that the activities of chambers, professional chambers in architecture and construction are now being separated into a special law, it can be good. But more than that, I welcome the normative arrangement of this chamber law because it really wants to strengthen the position of chambers in both the training and the vocational education of architects and engineers in construction. I also welcome the fact that licenses are lifted, although I'm not sure the whole construction profession will fully accept it. In fact, licensing has defined in a certain way the strength, potential, possibilities of a particular construction company and then performed on the market. This did not lead to monopoly, but it was generally known that the license was determined, classified by a particular construction company. It is good that we have changed this because we are in line with the directive or with European legislation and that the conditions defined by the licence will now be regulated by public procurement or by regulations and public procurement rules will define the possibility of reporting to competitions for the performance of certain works. In any case, this is a contribution to our builders who were then in a discriminatory position when they put in front of them certain obligations imposed on them by the licence against foreign legal persons who could negotiate business in Croatia. But what I'm not sure is well solved, that's part of what he was talking about, and fellow Babic, he was wrong, you know. In fact, the existing law defines that the investor determines the main designer. Therefore, this law does not come out of the framework of the Construction Act, but I agree with what he wanted to say, and he did not say it to the end exactly, and that is to be left to the investor to determine the head designer, but not in the way this law provides. I think the investor should, however, be directed to determine the main project designer among the project leaders, and depending on the project and whose profession is most relevant in the project. It seems to me that, that should be a determination. We at the HDZ Club have not submitted the amendment. We knew it would be submitted by the SDP club. I don't know if this amendment has been most happily addressed, but I support the intention of that amendment. I think it primarily supports the architectural profession, so your profession, Madam Minister, and I don't think it goes to the expense of other professions primarily not builders, not engineers and not electric engineers in construction. Because it also makes sense to me that some demanding project in the section relating to the construction of a thermal power plant or, primarily, to be an electric engineering engineer, that when it comes to low-building to being a builder, when it comes to buildings in high construction, it should be an architect and thus be prescribed by the law to leave the investor with the right to choose, but to be directed by law and law obligations to a profession whose expertise prevails in a particular project. That seems like a good solution. What you probably know was that it was at the very session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction that was the dissatisfaction of the Croatian Chamber of Architects on such a solution in which they said that this was a solution that was determined against the main designer in a certain way to continue the deregulation of the profession and those methodologies that were set out in the a politics, in the a politics that you said earlier. I remain today in the position I was saying when we passed the Construction Act, and it seems to me that the Construction Act is in a certain way a truly impaired design methodology in Croatia. I'm not a designer, I'm not an architect, but as much as I'm following and as much as I can actively participate in this, I believe that there was not the happiest solution that the Construction Act has established, which is that the regulation of the law determines that there is no need to work on an idea project, that the implementation project for the second, third and fourth groups of buildings is becoming optional, that for large projects financed in the public sector there is no more need for the Committee for Architecture Success. Those three things I was saying when we were passing construction laws, and somewhere on that trail, it seems to me that this law is also said in the part where it's said that the main designer turns out to be not a creator. In fact, it was about this on our committee, that the main designer does not have to be a creator because the project is responsible for the project manager, and we know that the main project consists of 4 projects, architectural, construction project, engineering project and an electro-technical project. Therefore, regardless of which of the four designers chose to be an investor, it is the investor's right to designate the person he wants for the main projector. That's why I think the amendment made by the SDP club is welcome. If he's the best in the normative part, I think he can do it even better. I think the ministry could do it if it wants to accept this proposal, which was insisted by the Croatian Chamber of Architects, which we at the club support. I see that it also supports the SDP club, that it really is in such a way and that, yes, here is that until the vote on the law itself, the Government may do with its amendment what I am holding and what we in the Croatian Democratic Community Club hold to be the most appropriate. As far as the Chamber Act is concerned, we support the law's intention to establish the proactive role of chambers in implementing and creating public policies in both the area of construction and spatial planning. But I still forgot to say one part when we talk about the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction. Namely, I received a letter from the landscape architects in which they disagree with the law’s decision, which refers to the fact that the government, or the resolution ministry, entered into a public debate with one solution, and from a public debate when writing the bill with another solution. Apparently, it's supposed to be me who can't confirm it, but I want to point out because I think it's important. Apparently, the solution that entered the public debate spoke about an authorised architect, and that through the process of passing the law itself, further classifies it as an authorised architect – an urbanist. So the landscape architects say that once it has already gone into the division of powers within the architectural profession itself they hold that they should only remain on the formulation of the authorised architect and then, through the statute of the chamber, enable the definition of an individual segment of the architectural profession. In order for it to be good that once the ministry and the government decided to go into the specification of the authorised architect – the urbanists could, that could then be suggested, I did not suggest it, but I would like to present here in the debate their position that then the government should also be shown about the fact that an authorised landscape architect could have been given special authority because already today the construction of landscapes in architecture is very important in the construction of landscape parks etc. It has already reached that level that such a specification is also needed, for which there is a clear and specific department, etc., etc. So this dispute that was partly created by this law, which refers to architects and other engineers in construction, I would say in a certain way, has been shared within the architecture profession itself by the introduction of... the architect of the authority for the authorised architect of urbanists. Here, at the very end, Madam Minister, I said that we at the club would support this law, but here we expect that the part relating to the different arrangement of the main projector will still be designed and changed until the vote itself in a way that we can really bring this law to full consensus. As far as I know, the Ministry is having a public debate on the spatial planning strategy. We're at the club, and myself personally, we support that as soon as possible we bring in the Strategy of Spatial Planning. I hope the government won't play us like the MPs played with the adoption of the Transport Arrangement Strategy. I just couldn't believe that the Croatian government would pass the Croatian Parliament's strategy of transport regulation of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the document Transport Arrangement Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 1999, was discussed in the Croatian Parliament for 2 days. It is a really important document that fully determines the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia and through traffic development then and economic development of the Republic of Croatia because there is no quality development without quality infrastructure. It is a startling fact that the Transport Arrangement Strategy was adopted in the Government, I looked at the video from that session of the government, within three minutes of the presentation of the Secretary-General, the strategy was adopted without the participation of parliamentary representatives and I would say one of the most important strategic documents brought by the Croatian government. I am convinced that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction will make a commitment stemming from the Law on Spatial Planning and indeed bring that strategy to the Parliament to discuss it here I hope immediately after the summer. Here, in this sense, I welcome once again the adoption of the law and I appeal to Madam Minister that here you should respect this amendment or formulate it as it would be best to clearly determine the position of the main designer in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113097	Thank you. We'll hear the replica of Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113098	Here's a respected colleague, I have to thank you for supplementing my SDP amendment in terms of amendments to the addition of articles 49, 50, 51 and 52, and here's a clue to what you've said our club will certainly follow everything the government proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113099	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113100	Well, here's my thanks to my colleague Babic. We have been discussing our colleague Babic almost identically on the Committee on Space Planning, I agree with everything you have said. But I repeat, it should be said that this law has not changed the position of the projector in relation to the investor but has regulated the role of the main projector because I believe that the possibility of the investor setting it himself without the Parliament giving him certain gauges, that the law does not give him certain gauges that it is not good and that because of the quality of the project, because of the quality of the project, is due to the quality of the building, because of the quality of the arranged space that it is good for the first among the equals to be the one whose project, which is really the closest to its profession. And that's clear, justifiable to me, and I really don't have any more words to argue with what the two of us are saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113101	Now we're going to hear the individual debate of the esteemed representative of Mirala Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113102	Thank you, Vice President. So I will, in my individual debate, refer to what was just the end of my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, said counterpart Bacic. Namely, like my colleague Bačić, I also received comments from the Croatian Society of Regional Architects on this final proposal of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and the Chamber of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, on the basis of which I prepared amendments to these two draft laws. So I will use the debate to explain the reasons for the submission of these amendments and appeal to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction to accept them. The landscape architects were very unpleasantly surprised when they realized that the Chamber Law had been changed after passing all the levels of public and resolute debate. The law has been corrected so that before the document was sent to the Government, the term "authorised architect" of urbanist was added, which was played by the agreement that professional classes would be developed through the statute of the chamber, and in the law they would all be listed under the term "authorised architect". Regional architects warn that this amendment does not have the basis of the directive, which is Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/26/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EC) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System Regulation of IMI, which I state in the light of my amendment, since it defines the professional competences of architects, not separating definitions in specific directions, but opening different opportunities for discrimination against authorised landscape architects. In view of the provisions of the directive in question relating to the training of architects, landscape architecture differs in part of the prescribed knowledge, skills and competences for reasons necessary for the quality of the performance of professional tasks. Subject differences are used as a basis for non-recognition of discrimination in landscape architecture in legislation that regulates spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia and to the detriment of economic and spatial development. The fact that landscape architecture is recognised as a related activity by the World Architecture Association, which has recognised and respected the importance of different competences and provides for the harmonisation of disputed provisions in a new amendment to the directive in question. It is known to all interested stakeholders involved in the drafting of these laws, but it has been deliberately neglected. Good practice from other EU member states where landscapes, landscape architecture are clearly defined by national legislation is also not taken into account. The obligation of quality and sustainable landscape management, which is essential and quality of the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, has not only because of its responsibility to its citizens, but also as an obligation arising from the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on European Areas, which was adopted by the Republic of Croatia in 2004 and under which absolutely nothing has been done systemically so far. The amendments to the laws in question are a step towards better quality management of space and resources, and a step towards reducing the level of discrimination of one of the most important components of our environment, landscapes and professions, which is the only one sufficiently educated to deal with its regulation, planning and design. The importance of landscapes for sustainable development is also economic because the landscape is the area of food and wood mass production, energy distribution, mineral exploitation, ore, housing and rest, transport, transport industry and the like, because landscape with several natural elements of high degree of conservation and originality enables nature to be free of development, but it is also important to support the quality of economic use of space, it is also cultural because landscape reflects local and regional specificities as well as a careful attitude towards natural elements and represents a quality space for experiencing, staying and housing, resulting from the complexity and diversity of its internal arrangement and structure. Croatia, like the rest of the planet, has long been exposed to strong globalisation processes that covered all areas of human action including production processes and most products but almost all of the cultural sphere, equating... the way of life, but also the perception of the largest number of inhabitants on earth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rapid equation of agricultural production techniques, and the global application of almost the same spatial architectural models and concepts, are increasingly pronounced and synergy towards the trivialisation of landscapes as well as the loss of local and regional visibility. Changes in landscapes in Croatia are also linked to a number of other factors such as the conservative, pre-oliberal, non-oliberal economic policy which acts to reduce social control over space, denationalisation, unclear and insecure position of agriculture, liberalisation of the real estate market, non-coordinated law and jurisdiction, and the lack of adequate professional and professional cooperation. Since the process of continuing change in the structure and character of the cultural landscape in Croatia, it is especially important to mention the suburbanisation and relatively rapid disappearance of agricultural activity, as well as the abandonment of rural settlements on a large part of the continental but coastal part of Croatia's territory. So far, social incoordination has paved the way for a whole series of uncontrollable events in the area that directly affected the irrevocable loss of a large number of valuable landscapes and exceptional features in the entire territory of Croatia. We are aware of all of this in OraH, and we have developed a landscape policy in which it is extremely important that it has the very professional management of landscapes and that will not be possible if these two draft laws remain in the current format. I therefore appeal once again to the Proposer, to you ministers to consider and accept my amendments to these two draft laws and thus to ensure effective and professional protection and management of landscapes as the most valuable resource of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113103	Thank you very much. And the final secretary of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will speak only on two subjects, one topic is a major designer, and the other topic is a landscape architect. But before that, let me say something about the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia because the distinguished representative Bačić mentioned it. The strategy of the spatial organisation of the Republic of Croatia in the public debate, the public debate was launched on 15 June and will continue until 15 July, 15 June we were in Split, 17 June we were in Rijeka, 1 July we will be in Zagreb and 7 July we will have a final exhibition in Osijek with the fact that on 1 July when we are in Zagreb we have a public exposure to the strategic impact assessment of the environment that we are working together with the Strategy of Spatial Planning. We have sent a letter to the Croatian Parliament asking all MPs to be informed that we are with a strategy in the public debate. Likewise, we have also sent to committees that are higher, slightly more the topic of spatial order to them that the strategy is in public debate. The path that this strategy has in accordance with the provisions of the law to address all objections after a public debate, we get the consent of individual resolutions, goes to the government and then to the Parliament for discussion because it is a strategy for the spatial order of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. An important document, an important document, as this will result in a strategy of individual, sectoral, individual counties, cities, municipalities or individual agglomerations. So, as far as the strategy is concerned, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to mention and say that in response, I think that the crown of this ministry's work at this time is this strategy because it really speaks about where Croatia should be and go in 2030. We started these two laws at the end of 2013, since some March, in April 2014, he is in a public debate. There is a law on the assessment of the effects of regulations and we have done these two laws precisely by the book under that law, first we went with the thesis, several round tables, several previous discussions, several discussions on the law and there were a series of topics and a series of dilemmas. From the beginning, we have a subject of a major designer, and from the beginning we have a theme of a landscape architect. When it comes to landscape architects, this law solves 4 basic professions by architects, builders, engineers and electric engineers, engineers, electric engineers, architects are basic professions. With basic professions, we have suitable professions. These are the professions that participate in the design process, but not in the sense that they sign the project, but in the sense that they are doing the elaborates and that they sign the elaborates of course. There are traffic engineers, there are chemical technicians, there are geotechnics there are various professions that are educated at the Faculty of Varazdin, in Split, something in Zagreb, something in Osijek even something in Rijeka that is not basic professions but are suitable professions. Regional architects are equally educated for certain tasks, they are not a basic profession, but they are an appropriate profession and in Article 49.zakona says that the professions authorised to perform authorised landscape architects are arranged by the statute of the chamber in which authorised architects are joined. They go to another university, get a certain degree, have certain things, participate in the planning process, participate in the design process, but not as a basic profession, but as an appropriate profession. And that is how the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction and this Law is also being drawn up. The main designer has been the subject since the very beginning. The chief designer, we discussed the subject with all the professions. I must admit that I personally found myself in a dilemma when it was necessary to assess who was the airport's chief designer. The airport consists of an airport building, consisting of very demanding infrastructures that are both underground and underground, consisting of a runway, consisting of all access roads and then the investor chose one major designer, and we argued in the ministry based on analysis and foundation which would be dominant that he must be the second major designer, and the one we rated as the main designer did not want to be. So that was why we at one point opted for an option that had the law. Article 52 The construction law says the main projector is choosing an investor. We'll really think about this amendment one more time because it's worth thinking about, you should think about it if you get a series of things that you should think about we'll do it. However, the main designer in the way the amendment is addressed is the question of who chooses what is dominant. The example of this for the airport investor has concluded that the main designer should be a construction engineer, and we have concluded that he should be an architect. And finally, the architect very reluctantly signed that he is a major designer because when you combine this together, some infrastructures are much less dominant even though architecture is most visible. So it's really one area that's very sensitive. Every debate, the public debate we had on the law has always ended about this way, we will once again see the experiences we have and what would be best for this proposal and to settle all these options. Who will to whom, but to their own, the architect of the architect. I'm kidding. This is why the discussion is the topic of the strategy and indeed on 1st July in Zagreb public debate is good to participate is good to be. And as for these two things when it comes to landscape architects, they are not fundamental, but they are an appropriate profession and in this way and defined, and we will really think about this amendment one more time and see what we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113105	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. I respect what you've... done very quickly and come to the Assembly with a strategy, but now I'm using the opportunity to say that I expect that the state's spatial development plan will probably bring it in within, it would be good. Not because it is so necessary in some other segments of social economic life in Croatia but because I think the debate on the adoption of a state spatial development plan would significantly determine the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, because it is written in the law that state spatial development plan also defines locations for the deployment of research platforms. So I think that the adoption of this law would be very limited, i.e. lead to a Croatian public debate on this very important segment of the Croatian economy, which is the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I argue today that it is not possible to place any research platform on the Adriatic until your ministry until the government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a state plan for spatial development is possible or investigative, let alone exploitative. Therefore, the state spatial development plan would only then open a real and quality debate on what the government is doing without that state spatial development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113107	Answer to the replica of Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113108	Thank you very much. So by respecting all the provisions of the law, we can make a decision on the creation of a state spatial plan only after we refer the strategy to the Parliament for adoption. We do all the previous papers as if everything was there and I am truly deeply convinced that we will do everything possible as soon as the Parliament starts to sit in the autumn to have the strategy here so that we can formally make a decision on making a state spatial plan. A series of previous things we have already done, we have hired county institutions, we have done an analysis so that we will need a little time to prepare a plan for a public debate and I am personally looking forward to this public debate where the way and things that are important for the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia will be shown to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113109	Now I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on the bill's proposals later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113110	Final proposal of the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 845. The debate on the final bill is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 75 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 18 votes against the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the Government, the Honorable Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, to explain Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113111	Thank you. Therefore, the amendment of the Government is invested in Article 5 in a way that the word craftsman is deleted from the article and it is simply that such a formulation remains a natural person, not a craftsman, and an extension of the procedure to which the article or law applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113112	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I estimate there's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 14 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. No. 2, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113113	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113114	No. 2 in Article 59(1), the word urbanist is given behind the word “authorised architect”.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113115	In this amendment, the Government proposes an amendment as a technical correction because it is actually in line with the whole text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113116	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah? On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Branko Bačić. Dear Deputy Minister, release the payphone, representative Branko Bacic will speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113117	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will, on behalf of the HDZ Club, say on this point and this amendment and repeat what we have indicated when I spoke on behalf of the club about the bill. At the time, we said that it was not good for the proposal of the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction to go into the fragmentation of the license of an authorised architect. This is in a certain way, they also confirmed to you the amendment colleagues of Mirala Holy because the bill that went to the public debate was not identical to that of the law that was agreed with the chambers. And therefore, within the architectural profession, there has been a division about whether to introduce next to an authorised architect and an authorised architect of urbanists because a requirement has now appeared to be made in addition to an authorised architect, despite the authorised architect of urbanists, so besides these two licenses, the new licensed architect of rural architecture. Whether that Pandora's box will open a request for other licences within the architectural profession such as the authorised architect of internal architecture we'll still see it, but it would be better what the HDZ club has proposed, which is to remain on the formulation of the authorised architect, and that the statute of the chamber prescribes later the possibility of opening a license for segments within the licence itself. That's one thing. The second thing, the Government proposed an amendment to Article 59, and it is not like the distinguished Minister of State announced the possibility of amendments to Articles 49, 50, 51 and 52 which would regulate the provisions on the appointment of a major designer. I'm surprised that the SDP basically withdrew its amendments after he announced them in the debate and filed them, now he withdrew them. I think that the amendments were properly addressed, they were not the happiest solution, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, I asked the Government to make an amendment on the trail of these amendments and what the architectural profession and the Chamber of Architects itself to amend Articles 49, 50 and 51, which would regulate the position of the main designer in a way that the main designer would be the person whose profession prevails, has a dominant share in the design of certain buildings, so the authorised architects would, in principle, be the main designers on buildings and buildings of landscape architecture, authorised engineers on buildings that are dominated by construction works other than buildings, and authorised engineers of electrical engineering and engineering on buildings where their profession prevailed. That was a better solution. At the same time, Madam Minister told us that until the vote, the government would consider such amendments. Unfortunately, they have not come, and amendments have come to continue with policy to go to its segmentation within a single license of an authorised architect. Therefore, the HDZ Club cannot support such amendments, so it cannot, in that sense, support which we intended to support that the government remained on the promise it made during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113118	Thank you, too. No more interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 71 votes for and 1 abstentions and 19 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Thank you very much. I ask the Deputy Minister to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee on Law and Others under Table 845. You got it? Can we get started? The first amendment of the Legislative Committee is a respected deputy minister. [[- Yeah, yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113119	The first amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 6 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113120	Sustained. He became an integral part of the final bill. Second Amendment to the Honorable Representative, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113121	Igor Coleman's second amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113122	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Third amendment of the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113123	The third amendment shall be adopted in the amended form. So, just as it was in the previous law, the names of qualifications are, instead of the fourth grade of the ESS, to be replaced by 4.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113124	Thank you very much. The chairman of the committee has already accepted the amended amendment. Amendment number 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113125	Amendment number four is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113126	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number five of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113127	Amendment number 5 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113128	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six has been withdrawn. Amendment number seven of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113129	Amendment number seven of Kresimir Bubal's MPs is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113130	It's unacceptable. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113131	This is because it is in the first row of the conflict with Article 52 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The construction law, because in the Construction Act we have already defined how the main projector’s jobs are assigned and, in addition, of the four chambers participating, the members of the chamber participating in the building process of the three chambers fully agree with such a proposal for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113132	Thank you very much. I ask you to vote on the amendment of the respected representative Kresimir Bubal, whom the government does not accept because he is not in the hall. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the amendments were not required by my colleague Kresimir Bubal. We're going to Amendment 8 of my colleague, Myrela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113133	Amendment number eight of MPs Mirela Holly is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113134	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113135	The amendment applies in the same way as in the previously discussed law, the introduction of landscape planning and architects of landscape architecture, and for reasons that have been explained. So landscape architecture is just one segment of architectural activity in the construction process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113136	Okay. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, the applicant of the amendment, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113137	So I would just like to remind you that Croatia has ratified the Convention on landscapes and that only authorised landscape architects have the necessary competences for this part of the business. The reduction of the definition of the task of the profession at the level of the Statute of the Chamber is indeed discriminatory according to the profession which is also a separate professional direction in the Chamber and is unsustainable in terms of efficient space management and landscapes of the Republic of Croatia, which is an extremely valuable resource.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113138	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113139	I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113140	I ask that we vote on Amendment number 8 of MP Mirela Holly which the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number nine has been withdrawn. Amendment number 10 of Kresimir Bubal, deputy deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113141	Amendment number 10 of Kresimir Bubal's representative is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113142	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113143	It is in Article 50 that the main designer and ensuring fullness and consistency of projects are already laid down under the Construction Act of Article 52 and this would be the way in which it would be collated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113144	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment number 10 of Kresimir Bubal's representative, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number 11 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 12 is also a representative of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113145	Amendment number 12 of Kresimir Bubal's representative is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113146	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113147	The argument also refers to the action of the main designer and is therefore not in line with the Construction Act of Article 52, where it is already determined how these transactions are assigned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113148	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 12 of Kresimir Bubal's representative whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment 13 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 14 is also a representative of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113149	Amendment number 14 of Kresimir Bubal's MPs is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113150	Thank you very much. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113151	The argument is the same as for all previous amendments by the Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113152	So the concept isn't acceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113153	That's how a concept is not accepted because it's solved in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113154	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 14 of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment 15 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113155	The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113156	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment number 16 also of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113157	Amendment No 16 of the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113158	Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 76 votes in favour, 19 abstentions and 6 against the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113159	And tonight we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Real Estate Assessment Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 851; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. And the introduction of the bill will be explained by the minister of construction and spatial planning Mrs Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law to assess the value of real estate. I have to admit that, like this, and it's one of the laws that's been working very intensively in our ministry for the past two years, a very, very specific law that has asked for a lot of specific knowledge, has asked for a lot of conversations with various professions. And what exactly is this about? Croatia is the only European Union country that has no regulated way of assessing real estate. There are countries outside the European Union that have it regulated, have it defined, believe it or not, even one Albania has one such law that regulates it. Croatia didn't have that, and Croatia did, we made the regulation, the regulation was in effect for a while, but you know well that something that the law can be significantly different than that when it comes to the regulation. What exactly is this about? We are all witnessing facts, not once that we have had opportunities to see in the media and also to attend situations where two or three court experts evaluate the property and evaluate it in a different way by using the methodology they used each time was absolutely correct. When you get into a situation that is, one has estimated 1, one has estimated 10, the other is, the third is rated 15 and everything is fine. And then there's all sorts of ways to define what's true. Not in a small number of cases we have had the opportunity to see, I will not mention what road it is that land to build one, so that the land is sold at one price and at the time when it is known that the construction will come in a specific case was about the road or there may be some other infrastructure that the same time the land was estimated at another amount. We were also witnesses when it came to the exorcisms of endless litigation in which they claimed the amount to be and carried out the authority not to say that there were a number of things and a series of situations when there were also services, when it was the right to build that they were absolutely in trouble. So this law speaks of the difficulties in which a private investor is located and tries to regulate these relations, and even more is in trouble and therefore both public enterprises and therefore, and quite this structure that needs to be decided about paying for some land and then paying for that land and then after that, it has been discussed for years what and how. This law for the first time, indeed for the first time in this way, regulates what and how and under what conditions real estate is evaluated in this area and on this country. We had this law in public debate for almost a year, worked a series of round tables, worked with both the economic profession and the court and all the others to see where and how they could come. This law defines how real estate is evaluated. Three methodologies have been defined. There are three ways of assessing how real estate, under real estate, is defined, so not only is it, we're looking at always built buildings, it's real estate, and land. And three are methods: matching, market and income. It's like when you're making comparisons, when you compare some real estate with a property that's already sold in that area, the market, it's the relationship between the built-in building and the built-in particles. When you sell one of the unsold which is the price in relation to which it was built. And the income method is let's say you sell the hotel, its building value is, its comparative value would be each other but what its real value is income value. Here it's said that these are three methods, to choose a method, that there's no combination of all three methods. We have also done certain analyses that were indeed mathematical models and it has been seen that these differences can be very small and refer to really very small things and small differences can be. What this law says is about something called e-reals. And now that you're saying e-reals in this flood of e-citizens, e-registration, what does e-reals mean? E-realty means this, that it will be a program and I must admit that, regardless of all of this, we are already negotiating and watching what could and could be done and we know that it will be able to deliver in several phases, so the computer program is available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia such as all our things available where price blocks will be determined. And now what does that mean? This means that you will have a price block in the city of Zagreb limited by four streets, and there you will have information in the e-real that a third-floor apartment is sold on the third floor of 100 squares, communal equipment such as this, the arrangement is such for that and that amount. This in other words means that you will be able to compare the method of selling a similar apartment and determine and see how and what to do for the rest. Similarly, it will be an indication that agricultural land and these qualities are sold, here and there, at that price and then you will be able to do anything else on the basis of this information. The first phase... of a portal called e-reals, if it starts working very quickly, and there's no reason that no, it can really be visible by the end of the year and it's for us to have a basis for further work and for further work under this law. This law defines what is an evaluated elaborate, how it should be built, but when you go through all the chapters of this law then you see that it refers not only to general property estimates but also to estimates, how the values of building rights can be assessed, then service, then service real estate and a number of others. Equally, this law gave the basis for a regulation for a mass assessment of real estate. The mass real estate assessment and the methodology used there is necessary to introduce a property tax where you have the possibility of a mass real estate assessment because it is one of the reasons why a real estate tax could be introduced. It is clear from the law that in this law and the implementation of the law and in all elements is active participation together with the Tax Administration, all purchase contracts except for the usual way where they should be delivered and for the purpose of setting up e-reals, so as not to burden the budgets of individual counties and cities, e-reals establishing a ministry, is a portal that is available to everyone, and which will then be managed by individual cities and individual counties in the way that they assess that they need and which are useful and I hope that they will indeed do so over time. So for the first time in the territory of the Republic of Croatia we have a Real Estate Assessment Act, we have a defined methodology, we have defined conditions, we have defined ways and we try to do so. Whether there are other things in this law that need to be defined a little bit differently, a little bit of regulation stronger or a little bit maybe not, it will show time. We simply have to have the opportunity to work on it, to make e-reals, to have an estimate of our property because it is the basis for all other laws that speak about the management of space, and also in a number of other elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113161	Thank you very much. The Republic has a colleague, Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113162	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would be interested in your expert opinion and regarding the application of the Real Estate Assessment Regulation and the rules on methods of assessing the value of real estate in the following case. Namely, the subject matter of extradition shall be subject to the application of the old Act of Exclusion which was in force until mid-Last year. The assessment of the subject-matter of the exemption was carried out after the entry into force of the Regulation and the assessment rules. Whether the evaluator was obliged to apply the regulation or regulation because the exemption is not under the new Act of Authorisation but whether it is old or not. This is a question that arises in situations and cases of expropriation, and I would therefore ask your expert opinion on the case. And I would ask you if you could give me information, and for it my fellow citizens asked me if it would be in the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Renting Apartments since you announced in January that it would be in the parliamentary procedure in April, and that didn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113163	Minister Anka Dark Taritash, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113164	Thank you very much. With forgiveness, I am an architect so this first question you asked there is a colleague lawyer, we could answer you, should be seen in the transitional and final provisions of the Law of Extortion and how it applies and that is the basis. Therefore, in that part, we need to see, indeed, people who are engaged in authority and who have done this law. But this second topic, so it's a topic that all the time, I've been getting that question from journalists in Split on Monday, so we've got court rulings in Strasbourg, based on that, we've given a hodogram. The hodogram says by the end of this semester it will be in a public debate to amend and supplement the law. Amendment and addition of the law on... No, it's a little different called, the amendment and the addition of the law will be published in a public debate on our website of the ministry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This in other words means obliging us because there are a lot of major changes that we are going through a renewed public debate with our citizens for a minimum of 15 days. And to your one question that was here in the House, I've also answered, so I'm taking this opportunity to answer. The ministry's website will repeat a public debate on changes and additions to the House Rental Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113165	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113166	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have said that two years of public debate for the making of this law, that the profession has been consulted, that many people have participated in the drafting of this law, but you have not told us whether the Croatian Society of Evaluators and the Croatian Society of Court Witches participated and what their opinion on this law is. If this is an extremely important law, which is because you yourself have stated that the same property is estimated, we have a case of 2.5 million kuna and 34 million kuna, the same real estate, and the market can't sell it at all. How can such a law be passed hasty then, why can't a law like this go into two readings? How can the law ever be made quality when you deliver it and by emergency procedure voted it? How it is possible to use one of those three methods that you refer to in the law, it is one parallel method when there is no database at all and how long it will take to establish it. What different court experts are assessing is that there are no criteria for evaluators, as this law does not provide for criteria. Because if a professor of general folk defense and social self-defense can be an appraiser and an expert, and by order of a court of extraordinary, and that law does not eliminate, then we will still have the same. If one with secondary expertise is not predicted to be an appraiser at all. This is, I think we're in a completely dark area as far as the evaluation is concerned. But this, uh, bill of this kind won't solve anything about a bad real estate assessment. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113167	Minister Anka Dark Taritash, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113168	Your Honor, I think we should give time for the law to come into practice, to see what e-reals means, so let's see what experience we have. We all have different ways of life and different things. I have one thing, and it's that introducing order is always very, very difficult. And when you want to put order into any resort, then everyone stands for order, but in someone else and somewhere else, and only then. So, the court warlocks. The court warlocks are named according to one other law, and the court warlocks were the ones to whom this law should make work easier and allow them to work much simpler, but you can see they wrote to you, they wrote to us. We've done a series, a series of meetings. And then at the meeting you can understand and agree and see the methodology. You've seen from the explanation we're using, we're using a methodology that's already been used somewhere. And we don't use it the first time. It's not like we were so smart and made up right now. In my legislation, when it comes to the area where I am headed, it is a construction and spatial arrangement that I always associate with the legislation of the German-speaking area. It means Austrian and German. There's a long, long time there. And we watched what would be applicable to Croatia and we decided to use it. So we did a couple of rehearsals, and we saw a couple of sales contracts, and we saw what that would mean, which would mean data from them. Indeed, this is the first time we've passed the law. We decided both that and in the explanation we cited which laws we used and experiences, methodologies and everything else. And I think we're ready with one of those laws, ready to do a project called e-reals that's really going to be about all of this. However, it should be a good will for all of us who act here to do so. And to end up really when you introduce someone, you introduce some new stuff he's automatically against. But let's work and see where we really are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113169	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague, Zdravko Ronko, president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113170	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. At its 46th session held on 10 June, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed this Proposal for a Real Estate Assessment Act as a home working body. The committee members supported the proposal and the regulation of the basic concepts in the field of real estate assessment, which determines the appraiser, the composition and competence of the evaluation committee, the high evaluation committee, and the competence of the administrative bodies of the county, the city of Zagreb and the large cities. It has been established that the methods and methods of assessing the value of real estate, evaluation, method of assessing the amount of compensation for the property, collection, recording, evaluation and data on the value of real estate for the territory of the Republic of Croatia are well determined independently of the owner of the property. The positive consequences that will result from the application of the law in view of its objective of effective real estate management and availability, which implies knowing the value of real estate, whether it is property as passive economic potential or real estate, are actively available, and that the particular importance of this law is when real estate, stock, in the insurance of property or disposal of co-ownership communities, and investment in increasing the value of real estate, burden or reduction of property value held. Therefore, after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously took the position to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Real Estate Assessment Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113171	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113172	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Madam Minister with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's worth commending the ministry's efforts to finally regulate one area that has not been regulated so far and has caused a lot of problems. First of all, tax collection problems because for a long time because we haven't had an estimate, there has always been a conflict between the Ministry of Finance and any citizen of any company over what is the value of the property that was on the market and what is the tax to be paid. It seems to me that, and I can freely say hundreds of millions of kunas of unpaid taxes because a good part of these conflicts ended up in obsolescence, because even accelerated procedures through two I would say out of court proceedings did not give a solution. Well, when it came to the administrative trial, the state was simply cut off. The truth is, by changing the Tax Act, we tried to reduce it. If we weren't talking about the huge problems we have in buying and selling real estate units because there are always political tensions, I would say the involvement of law enforcement authorities in what is or isn't real value. And of course, we are coming to the fact that the attempts of the ministry in 2014 to try to put more order into the regulation and regulations again have not yielded significant results, so now we have the law. And why didn't it? Because the only ones who were authorized were, and these are the court's evaluators, they were so different. And not only that, but we can see that they didn't even comply with the regulation that didn't determine the method of assessment, which is again I would say the problem of a regulation that couldn't sanction them for non-compliance with the regulations in the Republic of Croatia, and imagine you have court experts, so they have special approval for such work. So we're wondering which country we live in when exactly the ones who should respect the regulations are the reason that we also have to legally define their responsibilities and sanctions against them in order to have a little bit more order in this matter. So, in 2015, what do we determine? The first biggest problem in Croatia is that we don't have a signature of real estate. That basically we didn't make it to the real list of real estate, real estate values or real estate owners in 2015. What does that show? It shows that we've been 15 years, I apologize for 25 years, even though we've been through a transition period since the socialist economy towards... Although we've changed the system in 25 years, we're slaves of a communal fee that's otherwise pure socialist I'd say a relic about how to tax social property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we kept it for 25 years in capitalism, market economy, in modern Croatia. We keep the municipal system and the incomes of the local self-government unit on socialist income. And that was why we didn't even care what the value of the property was, that we didn't care how to determine the real estate. And what unfortunately is also the result of the poor work of the judiciary we don't have solved cadastar and grantbooks. Unfortunately, for 25 years, a man would say anything could be solved. We haven't solved the basics, the basics. These are the basic things we should have solved after all. I must admit that we have had huge opportunities to use foreign aid only we should have chosen certain European countries that have a high-quality solution and do not constantly get out that this is inconclusive. That is why I say that such a bill of law is truly commendable by the ministry who are trying to take first steps in all of this. We see that indeed the ministry has been working for more than a year on this because this year already planned funds in the state budget for funding and property, for funding and individual commissions that need to act in order to introduce a little more order. And of course, as much as in those projections, the planning for 2016 and 2017 is slightly smaller amounts, if we approach this law and if we take this job seriously, that real budgets will mean more funding for next year. It was therefore known in time to have the necessary resources to conduct this newspaper in the Republic of Croatia. What do I think is good in this law? It's good to go to committees, committees that won't increase the number of employees. These are people who now work in the county, in large cities, in the ministries that will have special powers and at that moment we have one central body and 21 I would say the organisation of county commissions that are obliged to deal with coordination, data publication, surveillance, etc. when it comes to equating the method and implementing this law. And that's why I'm optimistic that now that we're setting up an administrative system in this system that never existed until now, it's a certain newspaper that can mean more to us. First of all, that we're going to have these bases, that we're going to have built, and I even see a pretty optimistic date that seems to me 6 months, 170 days are scheduled to have to have a significant base on real estate estimates. The basic fear that can appear to us because I'm getting here is the administration system, can this mean the difficulty of procedures? So, we're always having a problem with whether management can bring its own benefit with unification and I'd say statistics or databases make it difficult to process and extend the procedure that is necessary. Unfortunately, we haven't solved this in this law, which may be necessary, so it is expected that the secretary in the rule will do so. As long as it's going to be a method, but we need to understand that we're known for being too long, to make it harder and more difficult, I'd say, and to start investment, to make investments, to run business processes. And we just can't allow this law to repay us. We just have to cut it short and keep it on what we have right now. This is something that may be lacking because we were able to set those deadlines because it is very important to indicate those deadlines. Secondly, whether it is sufficient to sanction is going to what are weaknesses, weaknesses are judicial assessors. We see that still the system rests on the court evaluators, we haven't changed that. Now I wonder if criminal sanctions from 3 to 6 months and from 6 to 12 months are enough, or should the renegotiation of powers be said not to enforce laws or illegal acts? It seems to me that the introduction states that the appraisers are the ones who forced us to speed up with the law's procedure that maybe sanctions against the irresponsible in the protection of those who are responsible are even a little more severe. So that's just the question, but we evaluators obviously haven't decided to change, we stick around and keep on at the court's assessors, which is acceptable, that's their trade, they're in the profession enough and what we can do. We see that three evaluation methods have been left, meaning comparison market and of course income or expenditure. I think it's acceptable that we have to be clear that the three of you, I don't know how much you'd agree with Mrs. Secretary who said there were little differences. That can be a very big difference. Is it you when you look at an object and sell an object is one thing, and when you look at incomes, those incomes are made by employees. So it's always a question of whether on the income side there's still an estimate far less is there someone working, making revenues, can make bad incomes. So these are still methods that we need to understand that they are very different. They can give different methods and therefore it is the rule that must be defined when applying which method, if there is no breakage, there is no adjustment of one method with the other, one of these methods is chosen. In law, we do not have a very clear definition when which method is applied and therefore a rule which I hope we will look at in two months must really be very clear in which way the method is applied. Because if we define that too then it can really be a very small difference when we look at regional and even with the Commission's corrections, I think we'll be able to correct it. What I hope is that it's just that the first article, or I apologize, is an article 4 which gives some concepts that don't create any confusion in our people, is that here you have set up concepts that can mean definition. Well, here's a colleague of mine asked me if we have three apartments in the house, which is not a house, because I have apartments. So there are so many defined concepts that I question whether these concepts are exactly the same and how they will then be firmly applied. It is obvious that the house with three apartments is a business space because here they are indicated that it must be two apartments, not apartments. So I'd ask you to really re-analyze the concepts that you've just listed here and you haven't worked them out in the law, so it doesn't cause any confusion with the citizens that when they read this, they're going to wonder what it's all about. Do you know that the assessment of apartments or houses for the IRS can mean a lot, so I would pray that you may work this out again a little bit. And what I was about to say, good intentions and that's a mass assessment of the value of real estate for real estate tax here is just indicated. So the ministry that really believes that we must finally have a mass assessment of real estate and here it's basically just me who would say the introduction to a law that must be the Law of Special Mass Assessment in order to really access the change of our system. It is not possible to finance units of local self-government to live on a communal fee because the communal fee is to be paid on the basis of social property rather than on the basis of the market value of real estate. And real estate tax is not a problem, real estate tax if a person uses it can be less than a utility fee, but it's obvious that real estate tax must be big if someone doesn't live, doesn't work and doesn't use real estate and it's a tax function. Taxes must force everyone to put their money, their property into office, and that way we'll keep our jobs. And all those who resist real estate tax don't understand what tax is. In 2012, the bill was completed, the tax should be lower in all cities, municipalities if settled and if operated in business premises. But the communal fee frees you from those who don't work and who shut down their factories and have that property and don't pay the dues. But under the Real Estate Tax Act, they'd pay big fees. Many factories today would have workers and would not be closed. That is why I appreciate the efforts of the ministry that is pushing all those who do not realize that there is no more space for municipal compensation and that we need to adapt our Croatian system to the European system and that this means a real estate tax that must be large if the property is not operational, if the property is part of the wealth that is not put into operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113173	A colleague, Damir Cain, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives, is not present, the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113174	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers, deputies. So a lot has already been said and indeed this law primarily lays the basis for building a system of reliable standards of property valuation and, in addition, the application of these standards to authorised persons, which is also not the least problem in the whole story. It is also in line with the Consumer Credit Contracts Directive, and we have heard this before, the problem has been regulated by a regulation and regulation that has not given the desired results. And indeed, my colleague Linic was talking about it, it's really crazy that we have a problem so that the court experts don't do their jobs and don't follow the rules, and we don't have sanctions, and then there's nothing we can do about it in the right sense. This law introduces what we have so far not had a complete system of data collection that is its fundamental advantage, the evaluative commission in the counties, the large cities and the e-reals information system which is the technological base and the condition of the whole story's functioning in general. What I would particularly like to emphasise in the debate on this law is that this is a law which, by its nature, predicts the participation of a large number of different stakeholders at various levels of governance in the Republic of Croatia. But, but that is also particularly important, the promoter came here with a law that transfers the burden of business primarily to others or to a greater extent to others. The Ministry retains an important and important role in the coordination and construction of that system, the Ministry establishes and maintains the E-real real estate system and will be available and, as far as I can hear from it, develops the initial state of the plans of approximate values, assumes data on realised purchases of real estate from the tax administration, once a year, issue an overview of the real estate market in the Republic of Croatia with a review of approximate values and will conduct the education of members of commissions and officials of the administrative authorities and will, of course, carry out supervision. I stress that so that there is no confusion and misrepresentation about these high-level jobs that need to be done in this process. What will have to be taken over by local and regional self-government units are operational and technical and administrative affairs to manage the purchase price collection primarily, and professional businesses are performed by some others. And it is important to point out because there have already been objections, and also in the context of what my colleague Linic was talking about, that we are constantly slowing down and that the administration is slowing down our procedures and processes from all levels. It is important to point out that the jobs that are being transferred to local and regional self-government are mostly operational-technical and despite the objections that have arisen there are no high expertise, new employment, new qualifications and a new burden for all of them. What may be interesting for the general public is in general the basic lines of how real estate will be assessed, so the basis for real estate valuation is its market value, and value assessment is based on general value relations on the real estate market on the day of valuation and the state of real estate. Three are the methods already mentioned several times, but what is interesting is that the comparison method is mainly used to evaluate land and one part of houses, apartments, garages, parking lots and business spaces. The income method is mainly applied to the real estate assessment whose purpose is the economic activity and the creation of income, and the cost method primarily for the assessment of real estate for public purposes, and one part of family homes which, according to their characteristics, are not comparable. Thus, of course, the law regulates a whole series of others, let us conditionally state not so many general cases, so it is also an assessment of the value of the right of citizens and an assessment of the value of the service and of the compensation for the service of the water, the right of housing, the right of the fruit of enjoyment, even the overrunning of the border by building the area of public purpose and the assessment of the compensation for the granting of the property, which is equally important and in this sense it should be emphasized that the law, i.e. that this proposal of the law, is fully in line with the provisions of the Law on enforcement. And then there's this article on the mass assessment of the value of the property, it's a specific type of assessment of the parameters are different, market values are adjusted. This option is indicated, well that it is indicated. We have, or all of us, who, or all of us, who are in the executive authority of the state or public administration, have an obligation to prepare a system for the opportunities that are ahead of us, and I, of course, must say that in my opinion it is a good thing that this possibility is only indicated for now, but I agree that it is still a good thing that the real estate tax is indicated. For the assessment of the value, purchase prices, rents, leases, management costs, property markings are used, with the condition that none of these characteristics has been influenced by unusual or personal circumstances which are then not relevant for the assessment of the value. The entire process will be supervised by the ministry. And what is even more important at the end is to say that it is good that infringements do not take effect along with the rest of the law to ensure a reasonable time limit for the construction and operation of the system. And what is important to citizens may be important information if issues of this law arise about it will also have to be followed by banks. This proposal is an absolute contribution to legal security in the Republic of Croatia as the owner, so to investors. It finally opens up a possibility that we've long missed that we have a uniformity of real estate assessment, not that we have a disorder situation and that's actually how it comes to mind. It is a large, important, precise system that will surely make Croatia more functional and organised and fully supported by the HNS club when it comes to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113175	On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113176	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed minister with co-workers. The Real Estate Assessment Act regulates the basic concepts of the property value assessment, determines the appraisers, the composition and jurisdiction of the evaluation committees and the high assessment committee, the jurisdiction of the administrative bodies of the county, the city of Zagreb and the large cities in the implementation of this law, the method of assessing the value of the property, the method of assessing the value of the rights and the burdens affecting the value of the property, the way in which the amount of the property is paid, the way in which the data is collected, the evaluation of the value of the property for all real estates in the Republic of Croatia independently of which they are owned. In particular, provisions for the assessment of the value of real estate in the extradition procedures have been elaborated, respecting the existing legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, then the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and taking into account the balance between private and public interest. The proposed system of real estate evaluation also adopts the provisions of Directive 2014/17/EU. The law in question transposes the basic professional concepts, the basis of the evaluation and the prescribed method of assessment of the value of the property that was defined by the real estate assessment regulations. That property value assessment Regulation addresses the fundamental questions of the assessment of the value of the real estate itself and the property value assessment rules provide for more detailed methods of assessment of the value of the property. The Real Estate Assessment Regulation and the Real Estate Assessment Methods adopted last year introduced the assessment of the value of the property into our legal system in the way that it is set out by the standards and regulations of the countries of the European Union. The Regulation also established a 3-degree real estate assessment system, which is the evaluator, i.e. the appraisal person, the methods to assess and the data on which it is assessed. The Regulation and the Regulation were adopted for a simple reason because it was found that there was a lack of systematic rules for the assessment of the value of the property and leading to a number of irregularities in practice when assessing the value of the real estate on the market. The application of that Regulation and the Regulation showed a certain legal gap and showed the need to adopt a Real Estate Assessment Act. The introduction of the concept of evaluation committees which would be expert bodies at the level of the counties of large cities and cities of Zagreb and which are expected to form a collection of purchase prices and automatically exchange data for the whole country must be established by this law. This is also a necessary assumption from the introduction of real estate tax because the administrative bodies of the unit of local, regional self-government and commission would be locally responsible for obtaining evaluation and issuing real estate market data, keeping the purchase price collection and based on the data from the purchase price collection for the manufacture of approximate value plans and the exclusion of other data necessary for the assessment of the value of real estate, in particular interest rates on real estate, adjustment coefficients, index sequences, conversion coefficients, parallel indicators for built-in real estate and the like. One of the missing preconditions for the introduction of real estate tax is the choice of a method for mass real estate assessment. Furthermore, the introduction of an e-real application also establishes the maintenance of an information system of the real estate market which is the basis for the implementation of this law and constitutes a collection of purchase prices and a plan of approximate values. The costs for establishing the system are provided for in the state budget and relate to the purchase of information applications and maintenance of software and to the construction of the initial state of the base and price blocks. The state budget also provides for funds for the work of external members of the High Assessment Commission. Costs of evaluation committees established in the counties, the city of Zagreb, i.e. the large city of the county, the city of Zagreb, or large cities. It is noted that, for the issue of data in the context of the entrusted tasks of the administrative bodies, units of local and regional self-government will be able to charge the corresponding fee, or compensation, as well as savings in the rational management of their own property and in the procedures of the expropriation. Law enforcement does not require additional employment of civil servants or officials in units of local and regional self-government. In the course of the implementation of the Real Estate Assessment Regulation, it was observed that part of the appraiser in the production... the elaborate does not comply with the same provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the regulations cannot contain control provisions and sanctions for infringements, it is necessary to ensure that the legal provisions are implemented urgently and thus legal certainty for investors and owners, as well as the uniformity of the assessment of the value of the property in court proceedings and in the procedures of the delegation. In addition, during the implementation of the Real Estate Assessment Regulation, the need for a hasty introduction of organised data collection and evaluation for the purposes of assessing the value of real estate was observed. This applies in particular to periodic estimates made for larger amounts of real estate in bank portfolios under specific regulations. As the market value of the property can only be determined from market data which are not collected and not evaluated for the purposes of the appraiser, the simultaneous assessment of a larger number of properties could be hampered by orderly business. Some cities have self-initiated the collection of these data according to their rules, which further leads to inequality in the assessment. For these reasons, it is necessary to allow the setting up of evaluation committees and the organisation of the collection and evaluation of data for the assessors in a hasty manner. Following the above mentioned SDP club, the SDP will support the proposal for a law on the assessment of the value of real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113177	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113178	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Ministers with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club proposes to the Minister or Government that this law be directed to a second reading because we believe that good solutions should be made, but that there is a need to further define certain norms that are regulated by law and that there is in fact no reasonable reason for the law to be passed by emergency procedure. Why? There is no reason why despite the lack of a regulation on the value of real estate, it is in force, there is a rule on methods for assessing the value of real estate, therefore documents have been adopted at the level of the Government allowing the implementation of the Regulation. If it is necessary to intervene in the regulation to intervene, but it would be good for this assembly and for the quality of the property value assessment law itself that the law goes into normal, regular procedure and that it is not voted by emergency procedure because of all those remarks that I am about to make. Some of them were brought out by a colleague, Linic. I think there are really elements that the government accepts such a proposal. First of all, I believe that the Real Estate Assessment Act should have defined the concept of real estate. The property is defined in several laws, defined in the Law on Property and other real rights to which this law is bound in its 4th article. It is defined by the Law on Real Estate Tax, defined by the Law on Transport of Real Estates, and I said by this law it is not defined, it relates to the Law on Property and other real rights. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because it seems to me that this law needs to be more fully defined as real estate. Indeed, the impression is that the primary law is written for building land and buildings, buildings, and that it is less dependent and takes care of the rest of the land,... agricultural land, whether they are forests, whether it is forest land. Therefore, even certain comments were made in the public debate that it would be good to further explain in the law the way and separate the way in which the value of the buildings, building land and forest land are assessed. However, that a regulation that will prescribe the value of agricultural land, forest and forest land is passed by a resolute minister for agriculture and forestry, not a resolute minister for spatial planning and construction. The debate also raises one question, whether this law and to what extent restricts the possibility of agricultural land being estimated at the value of building land. We talked a lot about this, too, at the HDZ Club when we passed the Law on Extortion and when we claimed that the Law on Extortion should be passed in parallel with the Real Estate Assessment Act, that in a very large part of the value of the property was agricultural land, given that it was located on the building land that was intended for the construction of a certain road as a building land, and that was then for the owner for whom the execution was carried out was major financial problems. Another thing that should also be especially highlighted. I believe this law should have preceded the creation of a database or the definition of an e-real. I think we've got enough, and we've got enough data. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration has an exceptional number of documents that are estimated land throughout Croatia. A number of exemptions were made, so it was only necessary to take a certain time to approach the creation of the database, to establish e-reals, databases, e-reals as they will be called and then, on the basis of these data, to go into the making of the law itself and the adoption of laws in the Croatian Parliament. I am speaking to the team as much as we have available an act adopted by the General Act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about e-reals, I'm presenting an idea, I don't think the ministry did, it probably didn't think about it. But it seems completely opportunistic and logical to me that instead of e-reals, instead of databases, you know very well, Madam Minister, that based on the inspiration of the directive, we have formed a national infrastructure of spatial data... as a shortcut. I believe that this database of spatial data that is in the Republic of Croatia, which must be the basis for and enables all users to use it, which is formed in a large number of levels of cadastral particle, particle height, particle culture, the purposes of that space etc., etc., climate conditions, that this database could indeed be connected to this database, rather than set up some new database, because it would be best to have complete data on the particle that includes its value just been united on that one universal, if I may say so, national infrastructure of spatial data. It's a base that could certainly contribute to this. In the very explanation of the law, it says that the law is passed for the reason that we are about to pass the Law on Real estate tax. I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues here. I do not agree that in such a short time it is possible to pass the Real Estate Tax Act for the reason I believe that the price of work in the Republic of Croatia must be charged first, but on the other hand, the maximum amount of public registers in the Republic of Croatia. This morning, when the President of the Supreme Court was here in the assembly and spoke about the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, he specifically referred to the lack of organised public registers in Croatia in the first part of the organised cadastre, the land book and the associated tax numbers of citizens in order to ensure that the Real Estate Tax Act could be implemented in a good way. Because as long as we don't have a regulated property-legal situation in Croatia, while a large number of citizens are not enrolled in the cataster, nor in the land book, I'm not sure that a quality tax on real estate and tax cuts can be brought to an unsettled grantovnica, to an unsettled cadastre. I was also telling the fact that this government has not made it clear that in the past 20 years it has been less invested. A hundred times less has been invested in setting up property-legal relations to edit the catasters and land books, than, for example, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid for the registration of their car, including insurance. So, on registration of the most important assets of citizens and these are building properties, land and buildings in Croatia I say 100 times invested less in the past 20 years than the cost of citizens who each year have to properly subscribe to their vehicle registration including insurance. Not to say that it is the most important public register and it must in a certain way monitor the adoption of this law, and especially the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. The law itself has already defined three estimated three methods, based on an assessment of the value of the property. I believe that these three methods are well designed, however, that provisions should be clearly laid down when and in which case we use one of these methods. Because as the law itself says, you can't use all three methods so you do the arithmetical environment, the average value of the individual property, but at some point you have to choose which of the above methods is used either side-by-side, whether income, or cost-based method. So it would be good to write down the criteria in this part of the most important part, which defined the methods for determining the value and the assessment of the value of the property better when the appraiser comes to one of these, to decide on one of these methods provided by law. One more thing that is also very important to mention when we talk about commissions, that commissions descend to the level of the county, or large cities. However, the law also allows the agreement between the county and other cities in the county to lower the commission to the city level or to another city level. I believe that criteria should be laid down in which individual units of local self-government could form an evaluation committee, and not that this is how it is arranged for me not to end up correctly. So for these reasons, many doubts remain about the definition of the process itself because of the lack and the lack of a database that can be used in the first row for the coupled method, for the reason that real estate needs to be defined, for the reasons why it is necessary to make clear the criteria that individual evaluators have to meet, we at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community hold that it would be good for this law to be referred to a second reading and to these numerous remarks that have been made in the debate to indeed give a quality answer and then to write a final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113179	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113180	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honors Minister with Associates. Mr. Bačić, you were talking about an unsettled disaster, and this law as a condition for the introduction of real estate taxes, and I agree for sure that catastra editing is an important thing that every civilised state needs to do. But I think it's a good thing that no catastre has been solved, because by introducing real estate taxes, you think about what's going to happen in the Dalmatian Zagora, for example, in one of our poor areas, where people have unsettled cadastres, and they've also moved out of that area, and some of the few are still surviving there. And of course they're all going to leave, they're not going to pay any of that tax tomorrow they're going to leave that property to the state. The state will sell it to a foreigner and where ours is, which is a scenario for the state. I think it's terrible that it says in the introduction as you said, and as we read, that the condition for fixing these properties is the introduction of a real estate tax. I think that the real estate tax and mentioning it before solving the economic situation in this country is not normal and that the economic situation should be something that needs to be resolved before the settlement and the cadastre and the assessment, in particular the introduction of taxes. Because it's terrible to hear that there are going to be talk of introducing some new taxes in the current economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113181	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Sanader, I agree with you, therefore, that the assumption of the introduction of real estate tax is, above all, a reduction in labour prices, i.e. the reduction of other taxes in the Republic of Croatia, because the introduction of that tax would in any case be additionally burdensome for Croatian citizens. But more than that, somewhere around 90% of the catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia still have an unsettled land book and an unsettled land cadastre. Until it is established, it is illusory to expect that the project can be resolved shortly. In 20 years of an independent Croatian state, only 3% of the Catastrian municipalities have been resolved, 3% are resolved, and 3% are exposed. So, all together it covers about 10%, somewhere around 350 catastrian municipalities is, it can say that it has a relatively arranged land book and a real estate cadastre. Until this is resolved, until a systematic settlement of property-legal relations is approached, until the base I spoke about is resolved, it is difficult to expect that the Republic of Croatia should introduce a property tax because I am sure it would add to the burden. I don't agree with you in the part where you say it's better if we don't have a land book and a cadastre. When we talk about the fact that European countries introduced real estate taxes, then they were those countries that had both a built-up cadastre and a settled land book. The fact that we have one of the most important, and if not the most important public register is arranged once in 150 years, it is not our honor. Because as I just said over the past 20 years, three times a census has been made, we invested about 600 million kuna in it, and we haven't invested that much in the whole of the last 20 years. Therefore, I would not agree that it is a good thing that we do not have a fixed cadastre and a land book because it would then solve a number of other opportunities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113183	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate, colleague Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113184	Thank you, esteemed vice president, respected ministers and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the proposal for a Real Estate Assessment Act, I would like to point out that, in the opening explanation of this law, the applicant explained that the main reason for the adoption of this law was because, after the initial period of successful application of the Real Estate Assessment Regulation and the Regulation on the methods of assessing the value of the property, certain legal gaps were observed, thus showing the need for this matter to be regulated by the adoption of a specific regulation. The applicant explains in his explanation that the implementation of the Regulation has identified the need for the rapid introduction of data collection and evaluation for the purposes of assessing the value of real estate, in particular the periodic assessments made for larger quantities of real estate in the bank’s portfolios under specific regulations. Since the market value of the property can be explained only from market data which are not collected and not evaluated for the purposes of the appraisers, the same should be made possible. It is also stressed that the efficient management and availability of real estate as a prerequisite implies knowledge of the value of these properties regardless of whether it is real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local or regional or regional self-government or legal or natural persons. I ask the question is this regulation really going to solve these problems that unfortunately the regulation and the regulation failed to solve? The way this is done is to plan the establishment of evaluation committees as expert bodies at the level of counties and large cities, to form a collection of purchase prices and automatic data exchanges for the whole country and to issue extracts from the collection would be within the jurisdiction of the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units. The basic set of real estate traffic data by way of charge would be automatically downloaded from real estate traffic records conducted by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration. Temporaryly, until the creation of automatic data transfer, real estate traffic data, so to buy, rent, lease, citizens' rights and services would be collected through the delivery of certified contracts by public notaries. And in this way the data collected are the basis for assessing the value of the property and, after the data collected, the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government will carry out the evaluation of the same. The ministry also explains in the opening statement that the reason for this law to be adopted in an emergency procedure is that it is in fact in line with EU directives which are required among other Member States to ensure the existence of reliable standards of property valuation and their application of them by authorised persons. I believe that the proposals are good and valuable, but since I have been contacted by representatives and representatives of the Croatian Society of Judicial Experts and Evaluators, I have to admit that I am not sure after what they have told me that this bill in its application will indeed achieve what was the intensity of the proposer himself. In fact, they believe that this document brings in one illogical procedure because instead of making the first mandatory introduction of the database mandatory and then prescribing the methodology here is the reverse all set up which makes them considered to be significantly worse in terms of how they work compared to all other professions. They believe that the uncertainty of their position is so high that they are literally endangered from all sides and from the legislator, or from us, from the contracting authorities to the various data providers that no one can verify how this is done, for example. in Germany by the board of judicial independent witches. They shall warn that the introduction of incorrect concepts of evaluators referred to in Article 9 endanger the requirements of legal certainty and the rule of law referred to in Article 3. A constitution requiring the legal norm to be made available to addressees and predictable to them, i.e. such that they can truly and specifically know their rights and obligations so that they can be treated. From the provisions laid down like this, judicial experts and assessors do not know whether they should be members of associations or not which makes a natural confusion amongst those who have the authority under the proposed law to be evaluators. The court experts are convinced that the application of this law will not bring about a situation in this area but will cause even greater problems. They consider that the text of the proposal of the Real Estate Assessment Act does not provide a minimum of the working conditions on the market as any other activity. They consider that the provision under which an appraiser and an expert walk on grants is being investigated whether something has been sold near the property that is estimated without adequate valorisation of this research work through a correct price list violates the constitutional category of equality of citizens when making offers for a job. They also pointed out the ministry's incorrect approach to the assessors because the base is not secured but the assessors will be punished if they do not act as they like the ministry. The verification committee shall consist of civil servants and one member of the assessor experts who, even if asked to challenge an assessment, will make a new one. In Germany, it is a committee of 5 independent judicial assessors, so the assembly of such a committee is without criteria very worrying in their opinion. No means of appointment, the necessary education of continuous professional training, resolution, methods of association are prescribed, but the Law on Courts and Rules of Procedure is settled. They warn that it is somewhat absurd that the rules on permanent judicial assessors have not been adopted even though consultation with the interested public ended almost a year ago, i.e. on 28 June 2014. And then they ask how, in general, their activities will be regulated unless a rule is now passed that will be regulated. I will now convey to you what they have presented to me as some of their demands, they feel it is necessary to define the available database in order to equate them with other labour market participants and to provide access to this base without compensation, to consider it necessary to establish a special price for real estate assessment services and to allow the use of publicly available data from the website of authorised real estate agencies, as an exception from the clarification of the experience of German assessors and the above-mentioned professional work. They consider it necessary to comply with the regulations with Croatian reality, with the market, with the databases and the paytable ones they say the incompetence of unfortunately Croatian assessors. It is necessary to approve the formation of a chamber of experts and appraisers to verify the expertise and ability of the appraisers according to their education, experience and the type of objects that the experts have. In view of all the above, it is almost impossible to correct the amendments, I appeal to the Ministry and to the Government to conduct a second reading in order, in the meantime, to consult with a profession which will ultimately improve the text of the law and prepare it in a way that it is truly enforceable in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113185	And colleague Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113186	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've just said that, but we don't know what that's going to do, which is going to result. So there must be no area legally unregulated. I absolutely agree with the law yes, but never for bad law. And what is the law if it does not know what it will result? That means it's not the law, it's the experiment. And if it's an experiment, then this isn't the Croatian Parliament, it's the lab. And if the lab then reminds me of an experiment in the seventh grade when the chemistry teacher came to me and said now we've produced ammonia so let's smell it, see if it's really ammonia. When I smelled it, I almost stayed alive. I don't know if the consequences of the execution will have any effect on the application of this law. It may not be so devastating, but I'm sure it won't improve at all or bring order to an unsettled area because it's so undefined, vague items. And not only should I appeal, but please refer to another reading of this bill. In one proposal of the law, there is an argument, in one part, that it is actually a prerequisite for introducing a new tax. Well, only if that's what it stands for can't be for that law. So this law announces a new tax to Croatian citizens, so I can't be in favour of such a law because everything that's wrong with us is covered by new taxes. So how long are we going to introduce new taxes? He's a colleague of Linic's, so I won't look back much because he's gone, he said he doesn't understand a tax policy that he doesn't understand real estate tax. I'd just add that he doesn't understand tax policy at all who don't know that tax is paid out of income, not out of property, out of income. And we have a specific history even though we're going to introduce a real estate tax to where our ancestors left it, where it's evicted, where there's no one there, deserts, there's both the land and the houses that are collapsing that we now have to sell what we have to pay taxes on it. Well, then it's the only legal nationalization, and I'm against it. There's less and less income available to pay taxes. Of course, the communal fee is a communist symbol for me, and of course it needs to be resolved, but the symbol of that time because it came out of it, and it has no economic or legal foothold actually to make it work, but I will never accept new taxes. You said Germany introduced, so Germany has a database, Croatia has no database, so Croatia has what it had during Austro-Hungarian times, nothing again. At age 25, there's nothing new about it. And now we skip the database, introduce the law, and we have no idea how to apply that law. In addition to what are the fiscal effects of the application of this law? It doesn't even exist, even though the law stipulates that you would have to introduce it. There are no standards in Croatia to assess at all, there is no obligation for education, for continuous training, there are no main preconditions for carrying out such an important activity. What about qualifications? This law is also defined by qualifications. What qualifications are needed to be an appraiser? The law doesn't make it clear. You're introducing a new terminology, Madam Minister, I can't help thinking that the new terminator especially in the field of economic profession and science you're entering says that an assessment of the value of a property for which there isn't a market, so if the real estate it can be, it's on the market, there can't be a market. The market can't work, but how can it not exist if there's real estate? Where are they? Outside the market. And what's the market? The place where the offer and demand is. Just because he has offers, and there's no demand right now, that doesn't mean there's no market. If there is no market from where to apply market models? You say that where there's no market we'll apply market models. How is it possible to apply market models where there is no market? That's all in Article 3. One technical disadvantage wherever there is a name of real estate you have one extra letter e, wherever there is real estate, goes a little bit and then large N and so through the whole text of the proposal that came in... You have a concept of pure income, that term economic category doesn't know, pure income. You're introducing a new term. You're introducing something that can only seduce economic science. Real estate interest. I don't know, I can't find a word to explain who found the concept of interest on the property. Well, I don't know where he went to college, which college he was at, what he was learning, what economic college he graduated from, or maybe he didn't finish. But what interest on real estate for God's sake? I don't know how something like that can stand in one law. I know you'll be surprised I'm surprised, so I have to wonder. The interest rate on the property, so I'd like to lock up and not read any further, I'm serious. This is terrible that we have to read. Now look at one definition, please, says the market value of building rights is determined in the financial and mathematical process by capitalising the difference between interest on real estate and interest on the right to build towards the interest rate on real estate and the length of duration. The interest on the right to build, the interest on real estate, it's not who can formulate this. All possible intellectual capacities that run the profession could never come up with something like this. And the financial and mathematical procedure is in the head of the chapter writing, it's a financial and mathematical process interest rate on the right to build and interest rate on real estate. Well, I'd rather not talk anymore than stop after this. And on the directive that prescribes the implementation of the application of international standards adopted, it obliges members to implement this Directive only in 2016. So it's not an emergency about the EU either. Here's the directive, here's the whole translation. I don't know what to do instead of setting up a base to prepare what we need for the law, we're passing the law that we don't have any preparation. It says in the law that it consists of a committee of presidents and four members. One of the members may be the deputy. What kind of law do we have a word in? It's not the law when it contains can. He continues to say then about the appointment and resolution of presidents and deputies, and what if there are no deputies and then at least in this second part could have been written by a potential deputy because the deputy is missing because it says in the preceding paragraph that only possibly he could be a deputy. And I can see that my time is about to end, even though I could put two more hours like this on anything this small page can fit. Even the composition of the commission is not limited to the number of mandates, but when appointed, they can remain and be constantly elected. I beg you and appeal once again, it's no problem to say let's go in two readings, so we will because this law cannot be corrected by amendments. I've been thinking about writing a dozen amendments, I've started writing them, but it's impossible to do it all that way, and here's what I suggest you do for a second reading in order to jointly vote this required law but not like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113187	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113188	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. You're politicizing the passing of the law again. You're talking about paying real estate taxes, you're talking about new nationalisation, even though it's not directly related to this law. Don't you think that you should be the first one on this side of the assembly to advocate paying a tax on property because let's remember that at the time of your reign, there was the biggest robbery of our country and that the largest number of properties was acquired at that time. And when we talk about this law then it is certain that effective management and availability of real estate is exactly a condition that implies knowledge of the value of these properties and that this will also make it easier for local self-government units and reduce the final cost of the unit of local self-government when we have the ultimate cost of real estate value. Because now for every real estate unit of local self-government, you have to pay for a court expert and these are terrible costs for local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113189	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113190	Dear colleagues, you obviously didn't listen to what I was saying. I don't know what you could have recognized politicizing into what I was talking about interest on real estate and interest on construction, and what the introduction says is that this is a presumption for the introduction of real estate taxes is not politicizing. I've never said you and I and you tell it to me now, you on that side, we on this side. When did you hear from me that I wasn't for property tax? But don't mix up real estate tax and property tax. Of course, it is because some people care that when their friends sell a company worth several hundred million euros or almost a billion euros, they do not pay a kuna tax because you are against the introduction of a tax on capital gains and it is for real estate. 'Cause of course it's nice to get a billion things and not pay a dime. Well, I'm not into that, and it's not politicizing, it's my professional position, I'm not about not paying taxes on that kind of income, and it's not considered to be income or income, because it's untaxable. And that someone left an old house in Dalmatinska Zagora or Istria or Slavonia and the land unprocessed because there is no one left to pay from Zagreb there and real estate there, tax on such a property. And it has nothing to do with politicizing, but it has a lot to do with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113191	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113192	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maric, we've been here a long time, so there's a possibility that I misunderstood what you said, I'm asking you to excuse me in advance if I did. But since you like termological precision, it seems to me that the e-real is not an error in the law, but the e-real is an information system that contains collections of purchase prices and plans of approximate values that I accurately express myself in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113193	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113194	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, you've heard well but you didn't understand until the end. And I have the right to cynicism. If there is no register, then I deliberately said what it would do in law when there was no such thing, that it was a mistake in each, I didn't accidentally say that in every word the real estate had in front of E, but here, of course, I didn't explain to the end why I said so, so you didn't, you literally understood. But we don't have a real estate register, we don't have any database, let alone an Internet database. What do we got? That's why I'm in that sense, that it's unnecessary and excessive. Let's do it first and then let's get E in front of N, big one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113195	But if we don't start something, we'll never have anything. And now I ask Minister Anka Dark Taritash for the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113196	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. There were a lot of issues here about the Real estate tax law. I think it's clear to everyone in this distinguished House that this law has not been introduced, and I think it's good, that memory isn't cheating on us why it hasn't been introduced. It has not been introduced for the reasons that we, too, have been established by the Resolute Ministry in order to introduce such a law, that there are a number of preconditions that need to be made of real estate records and everything else and that it was one of the reasons. So I wouldn't want to tie this law to that law. I'd like to say a few things. This law cannot be seen on its own, it should be seen together with the Law of Ownership and along with the Law of Execution. I would also like to refer to the directive. The Directive has in its transitional provisions an article which states that Member States must create, adopt laws and create all preconditions by 21 March 2016 at the latest, and that those who operate under that law in terms of housing loans and related to these loans must have every condition that they can work, otherwise they cannot do so on 21 March 2016. That means the court experts behind 21 March 2016 won't be able to do the job in the way they do if the Member State which we did not create a prerequisite for them. It's a prerequisite for the law that we could even introduce e-reals. E-reals are something else. E-reals are not a united cadastre and grantovnica, e-reals are price classes. Where along with, here I call when someone has some kind of break to take a look at something called ISPU on our ministry's website, it's the information system of spatial order that we've introduced that exists where the footage from the air of all the real estate. And on such a one system, we can go and into the system where we ran the e-indulgence and floods we ran on on such a system, there will be e-reals where the real estate, where the purchase contract will be recorded that there was a purchase contract and the elements of that purchase contract needed to determine the value of the property. So why this law in two readings? Only for the reason that we can do anything and create preconditions that with March 21st 2016 can work. So the system can also work so that our colleagues can be in that system as well. That's why we're going. And why are we quoting? So we have to have law so we can go into a program called e-reals and it's absolutely unknown and we don't have the basis for public procurement and for everything else even though we've made all the preconditions. But I am the last person to bring an experiment to this House. So behind every law that we propose to this respected House, there is a series of checks behind each of these laws that we do in the ministry. So I'm also in the opening statement that we've been running tests against methods. And then, we didn't compromise each other's methods. Of course, there will be great differences between the method in which it will be evaluated. But within one method, we've given a few evaluators to carry out an evaluation and we've seen these little differences in one method. So e-real, this law is our prerequisite for an e-real program. E-realty is a program that will be open to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see how and what happens to real estate. This moment, unfortunately for us, would be better if it was more of a relatively small number of sales contracts so it would be possible reasonably. We didn't in any way burden any major city, not one county, not one city, but we said the Ministry has secured the money in the budget, we have the money to do it, we're going to establish a system, we're going to give it to everyone so they have a system that they can manage. And there were also a number of things, and the terminator needs to be seen by the Law of Property and the Law of Execution. The same way we talked about the previous effect here, which means the value of the land is said to be useful at the time of the expropriation. Not what will be after the extradition, but the useful value at the moment of exorcism. And here at one point when the honourable representative Mr. Maric said that he had neither will nor desire nor all those epithets related to this law which I absolutely respect, you were talking about the fact that in this law we also talk about properties that have no market value. So we're talking. It's the roads, so the park, you have no one to sell it to, and you don't have to sell it, but it has to have some value. It's the church of St. Mark, St. Mark's Church. No one can buy Mark, but we need to know what the value is. So that's what he's talking about, and every real estate has to have some kind of value and be expressed in values, so that's what he says when you say there's no real estate market. Well, there's no market for St. John's Church. Mark, there's no market for the square in front of the church of St. Marka, so there's no market for it but they have some kind of value. It's such a real estate. So for the first time in Croatia, we have a law like this in the House to discuss such a problem, the problem of real estate assessment, as it seems. Croatia is one of the only non-EU members of the European Union. We have used the experience of all possible members, defined ourselves for experiences that are usually the closest to us. We are witnessing a series of situations where real estate was evaluated in different ways. We want to regulate both this problem and ultimately, we want to facilitate the work of the court witches because this way, although it seems very complicated to them in the beginning, we will make it really easier for them to work and make it easier for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113197	Thank you, Minister. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113198	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, the directive you mentioned, which provides for a deadline for me on 16 March of next year 2016, prescribes the establishment of standards that will allow the evaluation of real estate in Croatia. But this still does not mean that these standards cannot be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that they must be brought by the Croatian Parliament. It is good and I welcome what I said in my opening statement, it is good for you and the Government to want to strengthen these standards in the Croatian Parliament by passing laws and we in HDZ have nothing against that law. It's a good thing you've proposed the law, but we believe that at this point it's not like he's dealing with all these dubiosises, the doubts we've raised during the debate and on behalf of the club and individually. Well, I do, that's what I said you were on the right track, but if there are, there's plenty of time and there's still plenty of time ahead of us for 7-8 months, and even up to that deadline that I don't think is, it doesn't mean that the Croatian Parliament has to pass this law, but it can still go with the government's regulation until the assumptions that we set out in the presentation itself are fulfilled, which is that even better worked out methods and methods and the determination of methods and qualifications for the evaluators and the establishment of the database. I believe that this base can indeed be established not in a short time, but in a certain time everything we said on behalf of the club can be established. Therefore, the directive imposes certain standards that need to be established but does not claim that this must be passed by the Croatian Parliament, so can the Government, and it is good that you have decided to bring it to the Parliament, just to fix the law. We can't fix it with amendments, and I hope that's what you agree with. Until the second reading from what we said together, you could make a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113199	Replica reply, Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113200	Thank you very much, Mr. President Bacic. So by 21 March 2016, a Member State must ensure reliable standards of real estate valuation and their application, so we must ensure that it can be applied by authorised persons. In order to ensure that we need to introduce e-reals, but in order to ensure that you and I can ensure that, as well as I, we know well that when we adopt a rulebook and regulation that the regulation and regulation do not have that infringement part. The law has a broken part, and we all work in a way that we have to have a carrot and something else, and that's why we decided on the law. If the regulation had been enough for us and we could have done all this with the regulation, we would probably have waited even longer with the law. However, the regulation was not enough, this law has a number of regulations already in place, and we also appreciate that something called an e-reals app that we already have an announcement that in 170 days it can really be made, that it will significantly facilitate life, both first and primary court experts and then all others who in any way have to go into real estate business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113201	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113202	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you intend to experiment, I agree with you. But if you said yourself that we have to go with something and we'll see what we're going to experience... we're really not getting into a big risk level. And that's the risk we're increasing, and I'd like you to look back at what I've devoted most to time, the termology that speaks and is called the interest rate on real estate, interest on real estate, interest on construction and interest on the interest rate on construction, how not to call it an experiment when someone introduces into laws that don't exist at all. If you didn't hear me, I'll do it again. I'm saying I don't call it an experiment if someone introduces economic concepts that don't exist and interest rates on construction, interest rates on real estate and interest on real estate. It doesn't exist. And isn't that experimentation then? As far as this is concerned, it's said that it will be evaluated and what it isn't, for which there is no market. You say there is no market price for churches, it will be determined. It is not possible for them to determine the price per market model because they are invaluable facilities. The stone door or cathedral is not estimated, let alone by market model. And by this law, you say that you will evaluate such objects according to the market model. Isn't that some kind of experiment, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113203	Minister Anka Dark Taritash, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113204	It's very difficult to answer if we have different attitudes, if you think it's an experiment, and we on this side see how many of us we don't think it's an experiment. So there are three methods and what you're talking about is related to the method. We're talking about the value of real estate for which there is no market. However, it is difficult to discuss in a way, it is necessary to look at the full law from the beginning to the end, to tie it to the Law of Property, to tie it to the Law of Execution because it is an aid for the implementation of these laws and that way and a number of things are defined by this law. What you're talking about is about the evaluation methods, so the different assessment method has different elements in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113205	And Nevenka Becic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, I think that there should be a distinction between the sales contracts for real estate that took place on the free market where the supply and demand regime is in place and where the market price is being achieved. Therefore, the market price is the price that can be achieved at a given moment on the free market and such sales contracts should be different from the purchase contracts resulting from the extradition procedure at least now in this period until the purchase contract database is established. So the difference is, because now that real estate is managed, there's no parallel data, and that's why I asked you before about the methods and the assessment rules in which and how they are applied. Therefore, until a database on sales contracts resulting from the free market traffic of real estate should be established, the purchase contracts with the prices achieved at the time of the exposure should be disregarded, since these are not market values, nor are these market prices for the subject of the exemption, i.e. real estate. And in that sense, the property owners of this transitional period that I call it will be damaged. Therefore, I think that, in this respect and in the Law, some transitional deadline should be set in which contracts with the prices reached during the extradition should not be those to be used in further evaluations, i.e. the purchase contract database to be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113207	Minister Anka Dark-Taritash, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113208	Thank you very much. There is no purchase contract in the case of extradition, but in Article 56, I'm sorry. Article 57 states: "For the assessment of the value of real estate and the implementation of the necessary data, purchase prices and other data such as rents, rents, management costs and the set of property characteristics which are not affected by unusual or personal circumstances are used." So all the data they have is used. We're getting some information from the IRS, we're going to get some data directly now. We got a whole database of all sales contracts and all the other things that were in 2014 and that's quite enough for us to start with the e-reals base. But we can't set up an e-real base without the law to make it so simple to say. But it's all used. Thus, the article 57 also states that these are with classical sales contracts and everything else that is related to the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113209	I'm closing the debate. ... My colleague, let me finish and you and the minister can work it out later. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now information for tomorrow's work. We'll start at 10.00 hours by voting on the points prepared for the vote. Some of us won't be able to, given that there are amendments, and the government hasn't shown itself. Then we will continue the debate with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. So we will return to the Final Bill on Accounting, and to the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Taxation of Income from Savings between Jersey and Croatia. And that would be our conclusion tomorrow. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 18.49 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113210	Final proposal of the Real Estate Assessment Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.851. The debate on the final text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I am voting on the next conclusion on the proposal of the Real Estate Assessment Act, a second reading of the law will be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion did not get the required majority, 31 for, 2 abstentions and 66 against. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željko, to take note of the amendments. Amendment No 1 to Article 1 of the Legislative Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113211	Amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113212	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113213	The amendment of Legislative Committee No 2 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113214	Thank you very much. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113215	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113216	No, I don't. Let's move on okay. Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. Amendment No 3 to Article 5 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113217	The amendment to Article 5 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113218	Thank you very much. It became an integral part. Amendment No 4 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113219	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113220	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 5 to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113221	Amendment No 5 to Article 19(7) shall be accepted in part, i.e. in a modified form, for reasons where it would be accepted in the manner proposed by the Legislative Committee, it may lead to a delay in the whole process of collecting and issuing data for the purposes of real estate assessment and it is proposed that the entire block to which the Legislative Committee has been notified and deleted from the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113222	To be heard, the Committee accepts the modified form of Amendment No 5 and has entered the final draft of the law. Amendment number of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113223	Amendment number six is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113224	Everyone still accepts themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113225	Everyone's still taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-18-0.u113226	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final draft law to the further amendment of the Legislative Committee. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 12 votes against the adoption of the Real Estate Assessment Act, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues before we move to the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament allow me to meet June 20th of the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June victims: The Croatian Parliament made a decision on the June 20th of the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June sacrifice. On 20 June 1928, he killed representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party Đur Basariček and Pavel Radic in the Belgrade Assembly of Radicals, and wounded Ivan Pernar, Ivan Granđ and Stjepan Radic. The latest political act by Stjepan Radic was July 27th, the day he demanded the National Assembly, the new elections and the revision of the Vidovstan Constitution. He died on August 8, 1928 from the result of wounds sustained in the assassination of him. Stjepan Radic has already become one of the most prominent and popular persons in Croatia's political scene for life. Political persecution, pressures and prison sentences over uncompromising views on the implementation of democratic and republican ideas did not hesitate him to remain faithful for the rest of his life. The idea of political emancipation of Croatia, an idea that would allow Croats to develop into a independent people. Of course, he accepted the compromises as a politician because he understood that the realization of this idea must go in stages. The colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian people have come a thorny path from idea to life in freedom in their independent state, so the celebration of the 20th of June of the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radić and the June victims of the occasion that through historical memories of today and future generations we point to those breaking points in history that have greatly determined the further fate of the Croatian people and of the Croatian state. In 1908, Stjepan Radic was elected to the Croatian National Assembly. And on this occasion we want to remember Radic's words from his speech in the Croatian Parliament in 1918, which are still current today, quote: "Government means to make the people nowhere and never hungry, that the people may be satisfied. To rule means to keep the people from misery in the first place. Each of our men needs to know that our freedom must not only be a gentlemen's parade, but that it right now imposes great responsibility and great care on us first and foremost for the people's diet. When there was evil in that so far, we said it was Hungarian, they were central, it was the monarchy's system. Now, the High State Parliament will be responsible for every poverty for us ourselves. Sovereignty means not only freedom, sovereignty means enormous responsibility." Dear MPs and respected MPs, I invite you to pay our respects to Stjepan Radić and the June victims and to all those who gave their lives for the free Republic of Croatia. May they have eternal thanks and glory! - A moment of silence - glory to them.
