ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106465	My colleagues and colleagues will continue to work. We will discuss - Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014 The report is submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science, based on Article 18. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Before I ask the promoter if he wants an additional explanation I see a representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106466	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a five-minute break to point out the problems of the Split drivers operating at the city utility Transport. So I felt the need to point out these problems, and today they're going to have a protest because they're often really experiencing a lot of problems, so I think it's time to point out something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106467	Does this have anything to do with the Parliament and to solve it on a communal level? That would be a lot smarter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106468	We recently had a Penal Code, and I've proposed an amendment that just points to this one problem, unfortunately it hasn't passed. So I think and I think there's really a reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106469	So listen, I have to give you a break from the Rules of Procedure if you want to comment on the weather. Here you go, Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If there's something the Parliament would have to take care of, then it's about the state of freedom in the Republic of Croatia. There, among other things, is the state of freedom of public word, printed in the area of Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106471	Okay, we got it. That's your constant subject, and then you'll get your word for it. It's every day you have one and the same. Here's Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106472	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I've already asked for a break in the first five, six months of this year in connection with the state of the flood on the Sava River, so from Cvelferia to Slavonski Brod. Yesterday, we saw only one moment of flash shots of a cracked embankment in Slavonski Šamac. I warned of this before when there was a rash in the Racinovci had settled, unfortunately the answer of Croatian waters
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106473	Okay, well, we'll hear that after the break. Does anyone else have any other very interesting and important issues? If it's not there, then I'll set a break by 9.45. [[CONTINUE AFTER A MEETING AT 09.45]] So before we change the Rules of Procedure, and I think it's high time to change it, let the nation know about the important traffic problems in Split, they will be carried out by counterpart Jaksa Balojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u106475	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Here's what you've allowed me to point out to a problem related to the Split drivers who work at the City Communal Company Transport who do not often experience truly various tortures. Maybe it's a side thing for you, for me coming from that town, I think it's not and it's okay for me to point out something like that. So here they are today agreeing to protest the terrors experienced in the workplace, today they will stop traffic for 10 minutes to point to the difficulties they experience in the workplace. Warning and requesting protection. If nothing is taken, radical measures shall be announced. If I were to say that in 2013 there would be one attack on the driver, in 2014 five physical attacks, in 2015 until 10 June four attacks. A month and a half after a physical assault on the driver Tuesday night, a new attack was beaten by a driver with a broken arcade. The police are still searching for the perpetrator and yet no known qualification of acts. In the debate on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, I proposed an amendment whereby professional drivers in the public transport of passengers would be treated as officials and thus more stringent and accelerated sanctions against attackers, however, the government did not accept. It's not right to treat people who have more than a hundred lives in their hands at certain moments. Why do these people equalize with aggressive individuals and attacks of consciousness only on the mere relationship of two people? The attack on the driver in public transport is an attack on all passengers who are in that area in his hands. When shall we protect these men who work day and night, and on Saturday and Sunday, and on state and church holidays? Should we wait for someone to die? Should it wait for the drivers to take the protection of their hands so they might not have to be armed? Are you waiting for the drivers to organize themselves and chase the attackers against their colleagues? I hope that the state institutions will really do something to protect these people if we know that their work is indeed such, and as I have already said they are doing a responsible function, a huge duty. With this I hope that the Resort Ministry and all other services will do something to them in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112375	We will discuss the Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the report? Yeah. Academic Dario Wretenar, chairman of the board of directors, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The mission of the Croatian Foundation for Science is to promote and finance scientific research and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, promote international benchmarks of success in basic, applied and development research, establish a system of financing young researchers' development, strengthen international cooperation and integration of Croatian scientists into the European Research Area. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian Foundation for the Science of the Body of Foundations, the Management Boards and the Executive Director shall form. In addition to the Foundation's bodies, permanent committees of the areas established according to the scientific fields of the evaluation panels, reviewers and administrations organised in several departments are included. In 2014, the Fund received 6 payments from the state budget totalling 79 million kuna. Business costs in most parts of 93% entail payments of project funds or funding of scientific projects, which is the basic purpose of the foundation. General criteria for the evaluation of project proposals are the scientific quality, importance and feasibility of research, the quality of the promoters and the research environment. Funding of scientific projects during 2014 was next. The Foundation completed the evaluation process for project proposals notified in a tender for research projects programmes and research projects in November 2013 and a new tender cycle for those programmes opened in June 2014. A total of 668 project proposals, of which 469 for the research project programme and 199 for the programme of research projects, were submitted to the evaluation contest in the spring 2014. The evaluation process includes 256 experts, scientists invited to work in the panel. The call was accepted by 167 scientists who were divided into 26 panels within 6 scientific areas. The historical evaluation began in late December 2013 and ended in mid-May 2014. The foundation's office contacted more than 4300 foreign scientists with a call for participation in a review call, from which 30.6% accepted the call, 38.9 and 30.5% refused to respond to a call that corresponds to the European average of response. After completion of the historic evaluation process, the panels carried out the final evaluation and developed a ranking list of project proposals proposed for funding. Based on the evaluation results and recommendations of the panel for the evaluation of standing committees and areas, they have made recommendations for the financing which is managed, and the Management Board has made a final decision on the financing. In total, 241 projects, 64 from natural sciences and 47 from technical, 40 from humanistic, 37 from social, 33 from biomedicine and health and 20 from biotechnical sciences were accepted. Following the completion of the tender deadline, the Management Board of the Foundation collected information from the Standing Committees of Scientific Areas on the course of the implementation of the tender procedure and the evaluation of the notified project proposals and their proposals to improve the implementation of the tender. Then on the work of the evaluation panel, the process of processing the objections, the appointment of reviews and the quality of reviews, the final evaluation of panels, the work of permanent committees and the general quality and preparation of project proposals including the work plan and the financial plan. For the purpose of further and independent analysis and self-evaluation of the quality of the implementation of the tender, the Management Board of the Foundation established an independent body for the evaluation of the implementation of the tender. The committee members reviewed the overall implementation and evaluation documentation of the project proposals after which they submitted individual reports and adopted conclusions and recommendations at the joint meeting. The Committee's report was published on the Foundation's website. Part of the conclusions and proposals are immediately and included in the tender deadline documentation in 2014. The new tender cycle for research and establishment research projects was launched in July 2014 and concluded in mid-September. A total of 414 project proposals were reported, of which 220 were sent to the second round of evaluations. Valuation for project proposals has already been completed and will be discussed in the 2015 report. Furthermore, in December a research partnership is open to provide additional extra budgets for scientific research. This programme supports partner projects between public universities or public scientific institutes and extra-financial sources of funding from the country and abroad. The completion of the evaluation is expected in June 2015. The Foundation also launched funding for young researchers and in May 2014 the tender "The Project for the Development of the Careers of Young Researchers, the Education of New Doctors of Science" was opened for the first time in May 2014. This allows for the entry of more young researchers into the system of science after a multi-year break. The Strategic Plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science foresees funding for the development of young researchers' careers as well as an active promotion of mobility from academic to economic sectors. And that the Foundation, depending on the resources available from the state budget, finances about 200 new students of doctoral studies each year to achieve a stable level of about 1000 PhDs in the Foundation support system. These projects finance the gross salary of the doctor and the cost of transport to work, in the form of support covering two periods, each for a period of 2 years. The first part includes the doctoral study and the application of the topic of doctoral work, the positive evaluation of the results achieved, the conditions for continuing funding over the next two years during which the young scientist completes his doctoral work. The final goal is to create doctoral work and to adopt knowledge on the basic settings of scientific work and research. In May 2014, the foundation received a total of 192 applications from the candidate for mentors. As with project proposals, most applications were received from natural sciences, 69 followed by technical sciences with 51 applications, biomedicines and health care with 28, biotechnical sciences with 16 and social and humanities with 14 applications. Of 192 registered mentors, 146 were reported with projects financed by the Croatian Science Foundation itself and 46 with other international projects. After the evaluation of the funding and employment of the doctorate was carried out, it was approved for 182 mentors. Most approved mentors, 97 of them, which is 53% employed by members of the University of Zagreb. Then followed by the University of Rijeka, Split and Osijek and the University of Zadar. A total of 47 mentors were employed at the scientific institutes, of which 28 at the Ruđer Bošković Institute, and at all other institutes a total of 19 and 1 mentor in HAZU. During September and October, the institutions conducted a public tender for the employment of PhDs and most of the PhDs started working in January 2015. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched the Unity Fund programme in 2007 with the help of knowledge. The Fund is backed by the World Bank loan under the Croatian Technological Development Project. The Foundation took over the implementation of the Fund's programme in February 2014 by signing an agreement on the transfer of the implementation of the Unity Fund programme with the help of knowledge. For the purpose of implementing the Technological Development and Fund Management Project, two committees have been established. The Management Board of the Foundation took over the role of the verification committee in charge of the final approvals of specific programmes and final evaluations and programmes, and the Fund Management Commission was appointed on a proposal from the Ministry in July 2014. A basic document of the Policy Fund and operational procedures and certain conditions of competition under the programme of scientific cooperation, support across the border opened in March of this year. In 2014, the Fund’s secretariat monitored the implementation of 18 projects agreed in 2013 to support across the border from the Scientific Cooperation Programme and to support and research in the Academy of Economics from the Young Scientists and Experts contracted for a total of 22.1 million kuna. In 2014, the Foundation's office monitored a total of 276 projects in the total contracted value of around 200 million kuna. Of this, 194 projects are implemented in research projects, 4 in co-operation research programmes, 4 in research partnership programmes and 58 in the establishment support programme. The Science Foundation has been a member of Science Europe since 2013, an organisation that brings together more than 50 institutions that finance scientific research in 26 European countries and actively participates in the work of the general assembly of this organisation and its working groups. Science Europe aims to promote the common interests of all Member States' institutions and to support members in improving scientific research in Europe. The Foundation also supports the work of the European Science Foundation by funding the networking of Croatian scientists. The establishment of bilateral cooperation with scientific foundations or institutions that finance scientific research is under way. No European country has a research infrastructure, human potential and financial resources that would allow it to develop, independently and internationally, all areas of fundamental applied and development research. It is therefore necessary to encourage a wide range of research and development activities and programmes that would integrate Croatian scientists into the European Research Area, as this enables scientists to be interinstitutional and international mobility, co-ordinated financing of scientific research in European countries and regions, as well as stronger integration of science and economy. However, it should be pointed out that those countries that invest most in funding science at national level are best integrated into the European Research Area. It is through regular competitions of trust and funding of best projects and rejuvenation of systems through the recruitment of PhDs that Croatia can raise the quality of scientific research, ensure that our best scientists conduct their research and develop their careers in Croatia, attract excellent young scientists and ultimately increase the competitiveness of domestic research groups in European scientific programmes and funds. In conclusion, more significant investments in higher education, science, innovation, human potential and research infrastructure through the Croatian Foundation for Science programmes, the creation of conditions that allow the implementation of internationally recognizable and national significant research in all fields of science, the application of international standards of excellence for the entire system of science and integration into the European Research Area, the assumptions for the launch of the economy and overall social development are based on knowledge and scientific achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112377	Thank you. We have one replica. Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, distinguished academics Vretenar, you have rightly devoted most of your presentations to competitions for scientific projects, but it seems important to mention two other aspects that the foundation achieved last year, which is the first adoption of an ethical code that is very important because it is a set of principles in the field and morals and professional ethics that should be a guide for the work and public action not only of the body of the foundation but also of various permanent, occasional committees, evaluators, etc. Secondly, the regulation on the management of the results of scientific projects that are suitable for the protection of intellectual property rights which has not been given enough attention so far, and the matter is quite current, especially at international level. However, what needs to be pointed out, you have said this very gently and modestly, is precisely a shamefully little funding of scientific projects in Croatia during last year, and unfortunately this year too, and should be clearly said because this is where and now very soon, the budget rebalancing will be decided on where the funds from the budget will be directed, and then it should be made very clear that our science, scientific projects are far away, far too far away underfunded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112379	Would you like to respond to this replica? No, I don't. Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Independent Left-wing Club, the respected Nikola Vuljanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academyman, colleagues and colleagues. This Science Foundation was founded as an independent foundation in line with the European and world tradition of financing excellence in science. So it was founded as a body, as an institution that should finance and say freely to the exclusive, the best. Choose the best ones, choose those who are actually at the top, who are competent in the world and European scales and finance them. And that was good. As an idea it was actually great, that such excellent projects, excellent scientists, that such excellence would not drown in the sea of others, so it would be financed in this way. This is on that Gauss curve called the normal curve, so it has a beginning, so it has a hill, so there is a bottom end of the best one, let's say, a thicker, more prominent one, and thus the best one in Croatian science is stimulated. But the situation has changed. By amending and supplementing the law, the Croatian Foundation for Science has become the only place financed by scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia and the scientific career of young scientists. So what do we get now? We've got an institution that takes care of that final part of the normal curve, so excellence, and the biggest part, that coat of arms that's the average, but without average, there's no one here to worry about it. This way of financing any activity, so that only the top is financed, only the best, and that no basis can be financed can produce results anywhere in any, in any kind of action, in any branch. The very process of assessing projects and everything the foundation finances is absolutely uglier, objective and top-notch. Some of the people in this list of evaluation committees I know and I know are top-notch people who wouldn't think of anything to object to both their expertise and their objectivity. And it's all great. The result, however, is inevitably frightening. The reason, of course, is that the financing of science in Croatia and higher education on the tail and on the bottom of Europe is a percentage of the gross social product as it is already called below even Albania. And that means we don't worry about our future. There were countries that realized that, which they realized were actually coming from that vicious circle to say to our prime minister... to get out of that vicious circle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The circle on the one hand speaks there is no progress of the state without progress of innovation and science. On the other hand, the state is in the state it's in, and there's no money for science, but it's got to patch up social holes like we already have holes. There were great countries that knew how to come up with the determination of their governments. For example, South Korea was not much richer than North Korea, which was according to the gross social product behind Yugoslavia then, not Croatia, but Yugoslavia. So she cut the government's thing, she had, of course, social problems terrible, all of them, not everyone. The older we remember. She had a terrible social problem, but she gave the results. South Korea today is one of the world's technological and scientific forces at the rank of Japan or the United States or Germany or I don't know which other countries. But we haven't yet had a government that would be able to take such steps, that would be able to close our eyes and say this, so it cost us what it cost us. Maybe we'll win in the future. The position, namely every activity and science is based on people. Young researchers who are being funded in the Republic of Croatia and who will be doctored tomorrow will find themselves in a position to get a doctorate and to get the conditions for a doctorate, however, that none of the senior professors are worthy of dying and being removed from the post so that they can implement the doctorate. Due to the ban on higher education and science employment, the general social activities of the situation are the same. Only when someone moves the number of coefficients must they remain the same and someone else has to go inside. A regular professor in a permanent calling goes, to his place comes another regular professor, to his place comes extraordinary, to his doctor. That's where the possibility of a young scientist opens up. Most, and I know the situation at the university I used to work on, most young scientists won't be expecting it and will be forced to look for other solutions for themselves. Other solutions are of course going abroad. There is no state developed that will not accept such people very gladly. For the simple reason, it's finished money, you don't have to invest in it anymore. We invested in them, the nominal number says a million and a half to two, it's more that, it's a lot more that. It may be money for tuition and I don't know what costs but if we take the money his family invested, which I know, who else invested on the side, it's much bigger money. And that money we invested and raised a man who could contribute something to Croatian society tomorrow because he's definitely educated in these, it's not little years, it's 10 years from graduation to doctorate, something he learned, he knows, he has some kind of contact around the world, he can manage. We welcome such a man, give him all the qualifications and escort him to the white world. It's not only unfair and unfair but it's before and above all irrational, it's a waste of money. The explanation is there is no money to create new jobs in science and higher education. And for a wonderful miracle, there's money to open up, say, new universities that don't have conditions, and we all know they don't have conditions, but that's what the money's about. So to collect political points in the area and to win the election there. It's very simple. It's an insubstantial and hurtful case. That kind of nonsense in small quantities can be acceptable and random. In these quantities I can't characterize her as a case, so much nonsense can only be intentional. And the intention to damage the state in such a way, in order to express myself to the military by living force, is that intention a high treasonous intention. It's an ugly word, but it's a fact. The goals of the foundation have been to fund excellence. These objectives of the foundation obviously continue to meet and they are well-fulfilled and, of course, the objections cannot be there as well as the whole of this report. The report is of course and systematically written and describes everything that has happened in a transparent and fair manner. The second goal is to connect scientific research at the academic level, so institutes and colleges, and the one in the economy. Now, that should explain to me a little bit more thoroughly what scientific research work is in the economy. I haven't seen him in the last few years or a few dozen years. Maybe there's one, so you don't know about him. Career development, career development funding, 10%. 10% of what was funded a few years ago. Because finally those careers obviously don't take that long. Co-operation with diaspora, or scientists in the diaspora, is, of course, media show and you can see and it is one of the successful projects, of the successful activities and of this foundation, but not only of these foundations. And integration into European research, into the European Research Area. This integration is, of course, desirable and convenient but it's not for nothing, nor cheap. You cannot enter European projects without money. It's not scientific or anything else. This term will finance this European project has become some kind of magic wand like that little movie wizard. If we don't know what we're going to finance, it'll be European projects. They will, but we have to have at least 20, 25% of the money to get into it. There's no free entry into the project, there's rare projects where there's no participation, and there's obviously no money here. The money spent on projects in Croatia is in European relations, not to mention world relations comically. It is 8.9m euros a year, one decent project at EU level or one slightly less decent project in the United States. The way out of that vicious circle is with the government. In addition to all the phrases, we are a society of knowledge, we raise science to all the pedestals that exist in the country and need something to do about it no matter how much it costs. Because it's the only thing that can possibly be paid off, everything else is patching holes and expecting choices. And everything else is a political job. This should be the job of a statesman, someone who's thinking about his country for a long time. So I urge the Government to consider things differently in this budget rebalancing, especially on this government. Investment in science and investment in young smart people is not a cost, and it's the only investment that can bring something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112381	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112382	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, you are a left-handed fellow, I expected a more revolutionary speech and stronger criticism, and I see that there is something not clear to you or hold a quiet mass with sweet water and chamomile tea. I don't know what you're talking about. You said in the introduction that such and such a situation in Croatia is that there is no money, so here you are now saying, the speech that in Croatia there is so little money being allocated to projects that it is negligible in world terms. That's not true. So the master plan of the health ministry is 2 million 200 thousand euros. Croatia's 27m-euro insurance assessment. Now HEP estimates, there are 250 hundred magistrates in HEP, which is a doctor of science and they're looking for some boys from Europe and they've given them 27 million kunas. These are the projects this government spends money on for science. So in HEP 250 doctors of science and those 20 boys, they're regular people, 20-year-old boys, they're going to give them 27 million. How much does HEP have no idea? That could be calculated for 100,000 kuna. This is the purpose of spending, these are the scientific projects of this government, and Vuljanić needs to be told if you're going to speak. If we're just going to fill the time there to fill in 15 minutes then we can talk about nicer topics to slow down the Croatian people. So the government doesn't spend money on its projects, or on those where it should give 27 million to say how much Croatia costs, and then when it comes to schooling young doctorates, there's no money. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112383	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112384	Thank you. Right, one government spends money to paint tunnels four times to buy... Please, I listened nicely to you, to buy a collection of watches, to buy from a butcher's house, another government spends money to make estimates that it could make itself, to make software of 600 thousand kuna that it could make for 50 thousand kuna. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But a complete joke is that the only right to invest that is not aimed at obtaining an election is to invest in people. So not in these projects, not in the painting of the tunnels, not in the watches, nor in the assessment of the value of Croatia's insurance. The only money to come back is money invested in people. And I appeal to the future government, whether it's left or right, that in the budget, the first budget to bring that figure, that percentage of GDP rises to the level of countries we admire, not the total figure. So at the level of Germany or the Netherlands or Denmark or I don't know which other countries. That's what we need to do. And then the missing one can go the other way. Why would he miss it, give it up for thieving or for stupidity? Well, that almost makes no difference to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112385	New replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Vuljanić, you're actually in your presentation I think you've properly demystified a story that everyone knows so much and that's, so maybe we don't have to give so much money for science from the state budget, now we have open and available European funds. Whoever has any idea how to reach European scientific funds then knows that this is incredibly difficult to get, that they are usually creating a consortium of ten to fifteen top institutions in different countries and then competing for fifteen to twenty such consortiums that prepare half a year to a year project and one gets a project, but one has to give its own money in it. And that there is not a single country in Europe that relies on European funds to finance its science. European funds are an excellent source of financial resources, so with what is fundamentally a given country and what is the basis and which is the main funding of science in every country, and then that scientific group that manages to get a European fund that is excellent and that contributes naturally to the financing of science in that country, but fundamentally key and main funding always comes from the country. Therefore, the illusion is that European funds will be financed by Croatian health, a dangerous illusion because it gives a completely wrong message to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112387	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112388	Thank you. This is quite precise actually. In fact, European funds are not even designed to finance the continued development of science or any other activity in a country. They're designed to help one segment at a time. My university has participated in such a project exactly this way, according to academic Rainer. Seven colleges from all over Europe participated, by chance my college was the bearer of it. But it was extra money and it involved a dozen people from the university of 80, 90. Let us not rely on other people's beaks, our beak is what must be drawn in Croatia. The development of science in Croatia is not dependent on Europe, not on the EU, depending on how much we are willing to invest in this. If we're gonna invest more than that, then there'll be more money on the outside. It's connected vessels, there's no big secret. Finally there are statistics, there are data where it is seen that the most from European funds are scientifically derived from just those countries that are the largest outreach for science in their country. Well, it can't be any different. It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112389	On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague of the Iron Flego will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112390	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will not deal with the general scientific policy of Croatia but rather concentrate on what the Croatian Foundation for Science reports say, but I would like to make a contribution to the demystification of what this Croatian Foundation for Science is. It is namely that, in the Science Foundation, joint scientists, according to agreed criteria, through their most reputed representatives, decide on scientific research projects by evaluating projects, deciding on their funding, and thus, since national foundations for science finance state or state budgets, deploying public money. Because scientific research is proposed to be understood outside, it is possible to make a measurement decision without knowing the taste of research or insight into the structure and organisation of scientific institutions. Both the United States and France and Germany and the EU have introduced public funding for complex scientific research based on collective decisions by top scientists. And this is the Croatian Foundation for Science, first of all, the National Foundation for Science, and now Croatia has been making since 2001 when the Law on the National Foundation for Science was passed so that it would become operational only in 2012, 2011 basically but lived with the full lungs of 2013. Its task is to spend public money in the best way possible and to encourage or encourage special social attention about what is involved in science. Why pay so much attention to science? I have already spoken from this place on several occasions, so now let me repeat something that is somehow too quickly forgotten, that today we live as material and spiritual aspects of our life as regards conditional existences that are conditioned by the application of the results of scientific research. Pasteurized milk, public and private transport, health care in almost all aspects, production of, for example, new lighting bodies using ice diodes, electronics, communication are all the results of applied scientific research or products that stimulate new scientific research. So scientific research, it could be concluded here, are research that tends to do its own application and which are eminently applicable. That's exactly one part of it. Scientific research and research is much more, much broader than that. Scientific research is the basis for new knowledge of the physical world and new knowledge of the human world. These new knowledge also condition our everyday existences. So that scientific research activity cannot be reduced to just new techniques or as new technologies or new products are said to us. It is necessary to overcome the definitive constraints, namely the thesis that scientific research is in the service of finding new techniques, new products, increasing competitiveness, expanding the market and coming up with new technologies. Part of scientific research, so-called technology transfers or applicative research certainly contributes significantly to the competitiveness of those who invest in scientific research and we can almost say that smart investment increases are almost rightly increasing investor profits. I therefore fully agree with my predecessor that investment in scientific research is not a cost, but that investment in scientific research is an investment in a better future. I'll remind you of a very handsome detail used in Austria, so when you speak to the Ministry of Science in Austria, then you have up at the beginning of page header. At the bottom of the page is one straight line. So the Ministry of Science and Technology writes above and at the bottom of the page below the straight line writes the Ministerium die Zukunft, so the Ministry of the Future. The ministry, Austrian politics, understands the Ministry of Science as the ministry of the future. I mention all of these elements with special satisfaction because the Croatian Foundation for the Science of Explicite or Implicite rests on the above mentioned orientators, on the values of scientific research that I have mentioned. And that we are particularly pleased not to be able to cultivate excellence depending on our ability to international cooperation and the integration of Croatian scientists and Croatian scientific research into European and global research, especially in the care of scientific spring and in fact very valuable and very permissive with the scientific diaspora. Scientific research in Croatia needs to be established and we have already done this several times, unfortunately, suspension. It's bad for the environment and for the state of the world, which, the world's state rests on development, innovation, scientific research, if I may say artifacts, i.e. on human products and inventions, not on some kind of self-inflicted phenomenon. So it seems to me to care for the doctorates, and according to the post-doctorals, it is particularly important because they are an innovative factor that will continue on the one hand and, on the other hand, expand the areas that they have found. I am particularly pleased, we are particularly pleased that the Croatian Foundation for Science is investing, I would almost say evenly, in projects of different scientific and research areas. So it doesn't just invest in each other's areas by focusing on what's called the so-called area. the profitability of scientific research rather than evenly because they are actually the knowledge of the whole world, so both physical and human that leads to true progress and true change. I cannot, however, miss to mention that we believe that the Croatian Foundation for Science has a special responsibility. The Croatian Foundation for Science as a promoter of scientific excellence can certainly encourage, in particular with its collaborative programmes or cooperation programs of brain trusts, and that is to say all of the scientific and research areas that will therefore provide guidance for the easiest and most efficient exit from the crisis that we are in. And we can almost say that the academic and scientific community is the most potent and therefore the most responsible for one such exit and for finding new opportunities for our development. Secondly, we believe that the Croatian Foundation for Science also has the responsibility for the entire public, but Mr. President, primarily those who make the most difficult and large decisions do not let us fall asleep when making those decisions and remind us of the obligation of full responsibility when deciding on various structural matters, among other things on the budget, among other things on policies. We have recently brought to my satisfaction, I hope to bring to you the Strategy for the Development of Science and Action of the Croatian National Foundation, so I am convinced that the continuation of this activity will contribute to what I am talking about. And finally scientific activity has one, I would say, a highly integrated, political integrated force not only about the importance of science but about the relevant priorities in scientific research and structural decisions on this. I am convinced that all parliamentary if I can also say factions about it will agree and that we will reach a consensus, very easily. The report is, of course, an opportunity to analyze the route, but also for critical analysis that will teach us some lessons about the future. It is especially to welcome that the Croatian Foundation for Science has built in to say some autocorrective elements to analyse its activity, to respect critical remarks, to encourage the evaluation of its own work and experience so far and is actually in the proper drive of permanent or procedural self-improvement. The Croatian Foundation for Science is the best that we have in the system of science, and this should continue to develop. The Croatian Foundation for Science is in this sense our scientific research hope, but note that the greater the hope, the greater the responsibility. In proportion to that, we hope that the Croatian Foundation for Science will be able to do so. We wish that in the future in Croatia we do not have a division of the so-called Institute science and the so-called individual sciences rather than having one place, one center being one where equal criteria will be decided on all scientific research. As an evaluative body so far and as a kind of institutionalised organization, we believe that, in the near future, the Croatian Foundation for Science will take over the evaluation and decisions on the financing of all science in Croatia. In that sense, we wish you a lot of success in your work and, of course, we accept your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112391	We have one replica, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Flego, I agree with you as usual with everything you've said, but I do need to clarify something you said at the beginning of your presentation. It is true that the foundation was founded in 2001, but then the concept of the foundation was different than it is today. It was founded by the idea that the trust funds finance capital investment in science and that I say, in a simplistic way, superior science, while then the Ministry of Science and Technology financed projects of scientific, ordinary ones to put it this way, scientific projects. And then after 10-ac of such a existence the foundation thing changed and actually the full funding of all the projects was transferred to the foundation with unfortunately at that moment, in that time, lost one significant part of the money and it should be clearly and aloud said here. Of course, the concept as it is today is clausible, acceptable, and all but regrettable is that it disappeared under quotes a significant portion of the money from the relatively little money before for science. Now that's exactly what came down to symbolically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112393	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112394	Comrade Reiner, you have quite correctly said that the character and actually the mission of the foundation has changed. It was designed as a financing of top science, it took a step by step to finance regular scientific research and even reform high educational activities, all this is true. And it's equally true, unfortunately, that as I said, a part of the funds was lost. I've been saying that science is falling, but that part of the funds has been lost for the last seven years. As far as I'm concerned, it's optimal that in one place the same criteria are financed and regular scientific research activity, I can't say mass, so it's regular and also top-notch. And I am convinced that top scientists are capable of evaluating in an equally critical way both, so this seems to me to be a restructuring of the foundation's gain, not a loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112395	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the vice president of the home will speak to the respected Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112396	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear academic Wrettenar, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, the HDZ Club will support this report. It is very correctly composed, transparently, containing all the necessary elements to actually see the full functioning and operation of the foundation during last year. In my presentation, I would therefore be directed towards two pages of this report, first of all according to something written on page 50 where the trust was held in 2014 and received 6 payments from the state budget in total amounting to 79 million kuna. So the foundation received, and this is its role, that state money, with budget money primarily, finance all kinds of science in Croatia, 79 million kuna. 79 million kuna, so we give for all kinds of Croatian science. Do you know how much that's a percentage of GDP? Whether you believe it or not, it's 0.02% of GDP. For all Croatian science, all projects in Croatia, from astrophysics to microbiology. It is money that is about to be obtained for one single European FP7 project. The one and only. And that money is needed and financed, therefore, by all kinds of Croatian science. Of course, scientific projects are not the only thing that science is funded, there is, of course, the resources of higher education institutions etc., etc., but if we wanted to say how much money Croatia gives for science and research then at this time I assure you, no one in this country can tell you what percentage of GDP Croatia stands out for science and research. The data's different. Somewhere you'll find it's 0.6%, somewhere you'll find it's 0.7%, somewhere even 0.8%. Now what that actually means, regardless of whether it's 0.6 or 0.7%, so for all kinds of science and research. The EU average is about 2%, European Union countries. Slovenia, our neighbouring country stands out over 2%. The developed members of the European Union set out 33.5%, e.g. Finland, Sweden, Denmark, etc. In 2007, some African countries together decided and set themselves as a goal to single out more than 1% of GDP, and we, by estimates, because I repeat in this country, unfortunately no one knows you and can't tell you that data out anywhere whether 0.6. Do you mean 0.7, do you max 0.8%. That tells us all about how we look at science. And, of course, here in this Chamber, when discussing these topics, then they hear those words, such as education and science, are the foundations of the development of society. They are in direct function of progress, etc. etc. We're full of nice words, but very clearly I want to say we're actually just pretending to be a country that finances science. We don't finance serious science, because this can't be called these, say, 0.02% of GDP for all scientific projects, financing scientific projects. That name can't be called. Of course, on the other hand we will expect and the public expects it, the media also puts it into focus every so much, whether we are actually competitive in science. And then they start to share stories about the competitiveness of Croatian science, which are actually stories for young children. So with this kind of funding, how anyone can think that Croatian science can be competitive. The kind that's great for the funding we're supporting. Is it realistic to expect, for example, that projects financed from the foundation with 250,000 kuna will result in the maximum publication of scientific works in world-class magazines with impact factors I don't know 10, 20, 30. So we'll talk about natural sciences, publishing in Science, Nature, etc. So are we serious when we say that? Are we aware of what we're saying? Are we aware of how unrealistic expectations are with regard to what we are willing to give for funding? It should also be said very clearly that we will pay the price of non-climate in science not this year, not probably not next year, but only in the years to come and especially the price of not investing in young scientists and not only because they will go abroad, but also because those who work here, who have had some results from the past years and who will publish them this year or maybe next year. But in two years, they will no longer have any results to publish, because of course there is a time shift in publishing the results of scientific work. Thus, a reflection of how miserable we finance science today will be visible only in two to three years. Not this year, not even next year. Compared to the state five years ago, the funds for projects financed by the Croatian Science Foundation have been reduced to half. I'll repeat, they've been cut to half again, and the doctoral funds have been reduced 10 times, and that's the figures. And we can talk whatever we want, but it's numbers, it's facts. It is particularly worrying that there are indications that neither this year nor next year may be given for PhDs. If that is true, we will completely cut off the future of Croatian science. The fact is that, therefore, scientific projects in Croatia are funded not only insufficiently but at a symbolic level. And I'll repeat, we don't finance scientific projects, we pretend to finance scientific projects and science. I said I'd concentrate primarily on two pages in this report, so other than this quote from page 50, I can't help but look back at the quote on page 12 where it talks about the Strategic Foundation Plan. We brought the Strategic Foundation Plan to this House 17.4. This year, but the Strategic Foundation Plan came to the Croatian Parliament 24.4. The government had no objections to him, the board unanimously supported him. And now I am asking all of us, and, of course, the ruling question why did it take a year to adopt the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation 2014 to 2018? Is that also a reflection of our relationship to science? I'm saying it is, as I'm saying, until about 10 minutes ago, there weren't a quarter of the MPs in this room. Which also indicates a relationship to science. What it says about the attitude towards science is the fact that Croatia is at the bottom of the list of European countries according to the financing of science. And when we talk about a general attitude towards science, then we rarely like to look up to some countries, so let me remind you that the founders of the United States like Benjamin Franklin have built scientific ideas into the very foundations of the American Constitution. Franklin, let me paraphrase it, said something a little different but I'll paraphrasise it, that investment in science actually brings the biggest interest. He said that to education but also to science. However, when I mentioned Franklin, he always referred to Isaac Newton, Francis Bacon, and John Locke as the founders of modern physics, inductive thinking and empirism. Both he and others, as the fathers of the American nation call them, creating the first truly democratic state in the modern world, saw rational thinking based on science as the very foundation of democracy. And now that we come to a link between science and democracy, I have to ask a question, and how do we look at it in this House? That link between science and democracy? And how is it practically reflected, and how do we, if we really care about it, support, or implement, our decisions? I suggest that each of us think about it and that when we discuss the budget rebalancing that will soon have to come to us because of the legal provisions not because unfortunately those who need to worry about it would worry rather than what they will have to do and then I suggest that we all remember what we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112397	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas that are six. First Iron Flego, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112398	You were told by your colleague Reiner that 92 million money is therefore financed by all or all of Croatian science. It doesn't seem right to me because it's actually funding a part of the scientific research so-called. individual projects, there are expenditures of several hundred million kuna for institutes, there are expenditures on infrastructure covering whatever it is at universities. And don't forget that in the recent regulations let's say so the university teachers were obliged to use 50% of their working time for scientific research and 50% for teaching. So 50% of their salary also goes into some kind of scientific research. I am also sorry, same as you, which does not have a clear criterion and a clear table on which to calculate the money invested in Croatia for science and then we are where we are from 0.6 to 0.9. But I just wanted to warn you that these 92 million are not money invested in all sorts of Croatian sciences, but that these are still significantly larger funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112399	The replica matches Željko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Flego, I made it very clear that I thought it was money invested in projects, and I pointed out that it was 0.02% of GDP. And to invest in science, no one alive knows if it's 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, but in any case it's far too small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112401	Second replica, dear Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112402	Thank you. You've shown your colleague Reiner that you can't talk about this report unless it's about scientific policy because it's life-like and certainly connected. Two things that should seem highlighted to me, one lack of money in the budget leads to a lot, a lot less compatibility and a lot more compatibility in the system. The system is on the verge of Darwinism. He who finds his way in many different ways will survive, and he who is not, unfortunately, will die. Secondly, you were also talking about the perception of science. The general perception of science in the public is that there are some people who, at institutions and colleges, mix test tubes like professors. Balthazar and outside, some kind of gagets pop up. That's not true. We need to break that perception, first of all, that perception should be broken by scientists. It's a systematic work in which 98% of what's beneath the surface of every day's hard-wrecking, whatever work you want to do to possibly get some gaget after a lot of work and a lot of smart work and marketing and management out. We don't have that perception, and we need to finance these 98%. It's that normal science in that Gauss curve that's the biggest mass of activity that's practically not being financed today. The fact that half of university professors' working hours is too much for science doesn't mean anything if there's no money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112403	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Vuljanic, I absolutely agree with this, especially what you last said, not half the time, that 90% of the time someone is working if there is no proper finance and its effect will be very weak not to say anything. Of course science is competitive in its nature and it needs to be competitive, should be co-optible but should be competitive. However, competence in a positive sense should also be an incentive, it should be financed. Without that I repeat we are spinning around in circles, so we speak the nice words to each other, but no shift will happen, and at least the kind of shift that you were talking about by mentioning the example of South Korea where it was indeed a joint political decision, the attitude of the general public that science can directly encourage the economy and that science can directly promote the improvement of the whole country. To create such an environment is what we have to do, it won't be done by scientists or can't, and in particular, they can't do that when all their projects together are funded with 79 million. If we want it as a society, then it must clearly say politics, it must give incomparably more resources for science and declare it a national goal. Then there's a chance we'll succeed otherwise we'll just exchange nice and comforting words here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112405	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112406	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, you said that you also mentioned page 50 and these 79 million for all scientific projects, of course and the financing of the Croatian Foundation for Science itself, but looking at this chart on page 51, we see that in 2008 the Croatian Foundation for Science therefore singled out only 5 million kunas from the budget, and now stands out 79 million kunas. When GDP was the biggest that we're still trying to reach here for six, seven years, so on. The recession, therefore artificially produced by ourselves and our behavior, we had only 5 million kunas, now 79. I'm not gonna say that I don't know how to brag or hurt anyone. I don't know, actually, here you go in response to the replica where the problem is? In addition, when you mention science and here we have this Croatian Foundation, we have a Croatian Academy of Sciences, so the Croatian Academy of Science and thus the art that has the total budget for 2015 is only 66 million kuna. And watch Croatian Academy of Science and Arts 66, Croatian Foundation for Science 79. When we look at the total budget of the Republic of Croatia or GDP which is even worse, it is true that I don't even know how many percentages of the allocation for science and I'm still saying to that and art when we look at the HAZU.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112407	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow Grubisic, what you mention about the chart is exactly what my colleague Flego and I were talking about, so for ten years, the foundation was meant to finance exclusively top science, actually those parts of top science that required investment in certain infrastructure equipment that exceeded the possibilities of normal projects. At the time, the Ministry of Science and Technology financed all scientific projects, and the foundation only financed some top-level projects. And then there happened this transition to say so during which a significant part of the money was lost with which the ministry financed all the projects, so of course now it looks like numbers if they compare from that time that the foundation seems much more, but in reality it's significantly less money than the ministry and trusts co-financed at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112409	A new replica of respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112410	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, you said that out of 328 billion kuna, only 79 million kuna is allocated to scientific projects that account for 0.02%, and that total science is financed from 0.6 to 0.8%, but we don't even know the exact data. It is important for Croatia and for comparison with other countries to have another indicator and this is a share in the expenditures of the state budget and not just a share in GDP. And why is that? Because in Croatia, the ratio of expenditure is different, the share of expenditure in GDP than in other countries. We have a share of the expenditure of the state budget in GDP too high, therefore the interesting structure of the expenditure of the state budget. The scientific projects are certainly not financed enough, we can best confirm by comparison data. And we will all agree that culture is not being financed enough, but if we know that one single institution is here, let's say the Croatian Audiovisual Centre is being financed just as much as all the joint scientific projects or one theatre, how total all the joint scientific projects and they are underfunded, then we only know how underfunded scientific projects are. Civil society organisations are funded 10 times more annually than all of the joint national and scientific projects. 6 times, or more specifically, 7 times more is allocated from the state budget for renting real estate than all joint projects are financed. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the institutions of the national ones are also multiplying. Everything the foundation does I respect and report and everything and accept it but it can also be done by the Ministry of Science and Education or by the National High Education and Science Agency. There was no need to organize the Science Foundation at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112411	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Maric, when we talk about the ratios of the expenditure of the state budget, you've pointed out correctly only some of them and who really make us all imagine ourselves. Because I repeat, what was finally said today and more than once, if on one side we swear to science and there that science and education can get us out of this catastrophic economic but social situation where we are, then it's completely inexplicable that for some I dare say far less important segments, we give incomparably more money from the state budget, taxpayers' money, the money we're responsible for here for how we distribute them. So if we distribute them as we distribute them, then it's quite certain that science except verbally, we care more and we don't even know that these words that science and education are the basis for the development of society and that in the direct function of progress are not just words, but that it's true. But that truth does not seem to penetrate beyond our spoken words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112413	A new replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112414	Thank you. I can't remember any strategic document by the Croatian state that defined it, at least I didn't notice it not only in this mandate but ever before, that, for example, education, science, industrial production and overall social competitiveness are the priorities of the Republic of Croatia. There were always other priorities that were never the only priorities that would really be a developmental social lever for Croatian society. And we always go back and we get involved in the same molds of questions and quality issues we always return to the question of positions and money. Finally, we are the ones who distribute money through the state budget, and here I agree with you that this amount of money is small. But unfortunately, I also can't help but point out that the story of science in Croatia is very often about money, the story of personal interests and the story of their own positions. And that is why many young Croatian scientists from all areas leave Croatia looking for a space where science is told, a story of competitiveness, results and goals which unfortunately are not in the Republic of Croatia. And many of our young scientists work for very small money as blacks, forgive me for comparing, as slaves and 15 hours a day for a thousand and two dollars, but in those areas where the story of science, the story of goals, results and competitiveness, not just stories about their own positions. And as in many other areas, Croatia is, in fact, confused in science. And it is also a qualitatively serious problem of Croatian science.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112415	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're partly right, but it seems to me that your discussion is about what the atmosphere is trying to achieve, and that's to start talking about whether or not one scientist is blocking another scientist, whether a young scientist should come here or not, and we're not talking about the essence of things. The bottom line is that if someone gives you instead of your salary here 100 kunas and says you live by the same standard and you compare your standard to the standard, let's say the Europarliamentary that then everything becomes unnecessary. Then it becomes irrelevant whether you are sitting here now, whether you came today or didn't come to the debate today, whether your debate was more successful or less successful, whether it was more reasoned or less justified because such a comparison is a comparison of the financing of our science and science in serious countries. Exactly. So that your salary is 100 kuna then any discussion about it and these relationships becomes pointless. And that's why I said it, and I'm going to say it one more time, we're pretending here to encourage and finance science. We don't actually do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112417	The final replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, I have responded with a replica exclusively to one of your findings that you have said that by the number of us here in this hall can see how important we attach science. Namely, you're one of those MPs who can do it over and over again, how many of us there are in the hall and you like to give the others away, and you're not credible yourself because ask yourself how many of you are sitting in this hall when x other topics are on the agenda. And please begin from the president of your party, fellow MP Tomislav Karamark as far as he is in this Chamber and I can only conclude that he is here from economic issues, judiciary, reports of various, science, health, etc. Absolutely not interested because he is not here at all and perhaps in the end to say, perhaps these days he can be forgiven because I suppose he has work to do in the Croatian State Archives by digging through dusty wedding records.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112419	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112420	Of course, when there are no arguments, then there's aggression, it's the basis of psychology, it's taught in the third grade of high school. And when there are no arguments why you and your majority decided that science is embarrassingly little funded and you have no answer for that, then you start to politicize and move on to topics that have nothing to do with the topic that we're talking about here today. We of course...... Can I continue, or will the ladies continue to speak from their seats? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112421	Sure, sure, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112422	So by drawing attention from what we're discussing here on a day-to-day policy, a policy that reflects your anxiety that you're losing is not really the job that we're here for today. We're here to discuss this report, not your shaken self-esteem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112423	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the People's Party - Reformists will speak Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112424	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Academyman Wrettenar. The club of the Democratic Centre, the New Wave and the Reformist will support this report because it is very transparent, it is very transparent and correctly presented work and we have nothing to add but to encourage you to continue so. However, a lot has been said here and we will also point out something on behalf of the club because when we talk about problems in science then primarily and always, we are almost always talking about the problem of money. To speak of this report means to criticise non-science policy but to criticize indeed those who at the moment very little stand out for science itself. A competitive Croatia should rest on 3 basiss. innovation, entrepreneurship and intellectual property. But it is precisely in the development of intellectual wealth that Croatia makes very little, and in this regard, Croatia singles out only about 0.7% of GDP and the goal is for example. The European Union says it sets out not as it was said 2% but 3%. The situation in science is chronically bad, that's what all my predecessors have already said and the system is practically located in the survival stage. In addition, we have well-deprecated equipment, and therefore undeveloped infrastructure in the public and private research sector does not allow research to be conducted in accordance with international standards, limiting the quality of scientific research outcomes and results. Croatia is therefore automatically less competitive compared to the European Union average. And I will highlight here some statistics and that of the State Statistics Institute, which states that in 2013 in the Republic of Croatia 2 billion 36 million 476 thousand kunas of state budget funds for R & D activities were invested. This amounted to 0.62% of GDP from the national R & D budget in 2013. For example. When we look at 2009 that percentage was 0.69% of GDP. And when we look at 2004 then, one time Croatia put in its own budget for research and development 1% of GDP, so it was the same as Italy, slightly less than Austria and Slovenia. And when we look at today's separations then both Slovenia and Austria and Italy and other our neighbouring countries are far ahead of us in these divisions. We are full of mouth claims that the strategic interest at this time is investment, new jobs and where there is actually Croatian science. Statistics suggest that 0.1% of GDP invested in R & D after 7 years increases GDP by 1.2%. And it's a recipe for success tested in both Canada and the United States and Germany and Japan and South Korea. It was also applied by Baska, with the achievement of 6 research centres, 7 centres for joint research, the opening of technology parks and clusters. And today that Spanish province is far, far ahead of Croatia, which, of course, is bigger than Baska. But, of course, it generates new investments, new jobs, and, above all, in the area of advanced technologies. And now we wonder so much why young scientists are leaving us because there's a question in these categories, in these finances, in this kind of scientific policy that's their space. The programme of scientific recruits has been abolished, no new system of funding of PhDs and post-doctorates has been prepared through the Croatian Foundation for Science as the government has repeatedly announced. Earlier years, between 350 and 700 new young scientific recruits entered the system annually. That's totally stopping. School fees have become the obligation of institutes that are constantly reducing funds for basic costs and are practically operating at the level of cold drive. Both sub-finance and infrastructure lagging behind research organisations will ultimately lead to a further decline in scientific production of weak inclusion in international projects, limited withdrawal of funds from EU funds and projects. And I think that even more so, if we continue with this trend and this policy will increase the trend of young scientists going up to 40 years of age and practically the best graduates after their studies have been completed. And the only conclusion of this debate must be to call on the government to give priority to budget allocations for research and development, even at the expense of equally important sectors. I think there is no more effective investment in the future than investment in research and innovation because this is a reliable way out of the crisis towards sustainable and social development and this is the best way to create rich Croatia. Finally, we will support this report but warn of a serious lack of financial resources for the path towards better work, even better work of the foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112425	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So logically thinking here all morning about this report for 2014 Croatian Foundation for Science raises one too many questions. So it is a framework of 79 million kuna of the Croatian Foundation for Science, and we say here from the presentation of Professor Reiner and others that in innovation, in research, in development, in funding science through some other institutions, starting colleges, universities, institutes that exist in the Republic of Croatia, starting with Ruđer Boskovic, it is likely that far more money has gone and that this money is much higher than this budget of the Croatian Foundation for Science of 79 million kuna. So you ask yourself, then, are the names mentioned in this report, which are in the various bodies of the Croatian Science Foundation, in fact, in this list, not to say the nicknames for the distribution of these 79 million kuna cookies and whether the Science Foundation is actually, and according to earlier organisations, investment in science, through ministries and through the ministry, actually may be unnecessary or it is created that yet these renowned names decide something and here is something about financing what is called science. And nicely on page 12 of this report says that the strategic plan, therefore there is a strategic plan, a colleague said there is no strategic plan, some of my colleagues, but there is a strategic plan of the 2014-2018 Foundation which was adopted on 9 April 2014 and came to the benches of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament which also made an observation but, given the majority of the committee, adopted this strategic plan, but also made an observation which clearly points to the problem of the Science and Finance Foundation. Therefore, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament has expressed concern, only because there is no other option to say a more difficult word, the proposal for a state budget for 2015, which does not provide for sufficient budgetary resources for the programmes of PhDs and post-doctors in the Foundation, which, as the foundation in fulfilling the existing obligations has been highlighted, as the lack of funding will result in the start-up of the funding model of scientific projects and the suspension of the introduction of PhDs in the system of science. And what about the trust if all this is interrupted? So I ask one too many questions actually, to some extent, the purpose of the existence of the foundation itself if it goes through other institutions, if it goes through the university money, for projects etc. or it was founded and there is to distribute these 79 million kunas. Of course, I have no objections to the report that is correct and it is said precisely why the money has been spent and there are no specific remarks about it. When it's said science doesn't have money in this country, it's not true. It's not true that money in this country is not for science but for other purposes, for other jobs. And he reacted well in his replica to my friend and colleague Dr Duje Marasovic, having money mainly when looking at the State Audit report and seeing how much was paid for the copyright fees, how much money was paid, and 2% was allowed in relation to the salaries of employees of individual ministries or agencies, and it was spent several times more, so against the law. Who is responsible for the copyright fees of these people as was some kind of board of master plan of Croatian hospitals that failed. Who is responsible for 30 million kuna for privatising Croatia's insurance, sells Croatian insurance. It's as if in Croatia insurance they don't know what it's worth, and now we see how this facility was sold and how it was done. And who is responsible for a private agency that helps the tourism ministry create a plan for better tourism development in the Republic of Croatia and is paid by millions of kunas. And not only that, every almost agency, every ministry pays author's fees to some to put together some plans that say here's the privatisation of HEP, some group of young people from abroad come, etc. And he's taking the fees. And about renting space that the state pays to private companies and individuals, to individuals for their own purposes, of course very luxurious needs not to talk. It's a waste of state money. I wish there were some brains, wills and intentions to focus these money anywhere else and in a situation in which our people are at least in science, in science to direct themselves. Unfortunately, these wills are gone and that is why we have a report like this today and we have the same discussion of science that we have every time this report of the Croatian Foundation for Science is held, so five strategic specifics. These strategic definitions were exactly the same in 2002 and 2003 and 2010 as well as in 2015. And what else in the strategy and the strategic plan in general, the Croatian Foundation for Science states, except that, therefore, the Strategic Plan, to ensure better integration of scientists, businessmen, a greater number of innovations that are applicable in the economy, the development of the competitiveness of Croatian society, i.e. Croatian economy, innovation, research projects, etc. It's always the same. Well, of course it's the number and in 1900 it would be the same, such a strategic plan that was adopted in any country. Well, that's every country, with the question being whether it's a state that implements it or whether it's just a dead letter on paper. South Korea, as someone here has already mentioned, has done it and we see, the results are visible. The results of scientific research and scientific papers and projects cannot be visible spotlessly, cannot be visible as soon as this work is completed and adopted but only after a year, two, three or five years. Thus, long-term investment in science is paid as is worth it to South Korea where, where we see residents here in the largest number in Mark’s square and in Zagreb. And we admire how people from Korea rush to Zagreb. They can and are interested in Zagreb. But well, that's not the point. So, the strategic objectives of the foundation over the period, we have written and written, here is to ensure a stable funding of competitive, research and establishment projects, to enable the integration of scientists from public scientific institutions and universities with researchers from the economy. So number three, set up a full-scale career development program for young researchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral level. Establish a programme of permanent cooperation between Croatian scientists, public scientific institutions and universities with scientific diaspora. And finally, the involvement of the Croatian scientific community in the European Research Area which we know is not so cheap as to have someone here but it seems to me that Mr Vuljanić was telling me because these money for the involvement of our scientists in projects that are very expensive both in terms of these budgets and in terms of Croatian opportunities, therefore so much that it is difficult for our scientists with such resources and even to engage in any kind of projects. So, that's, this is a list of blind desires. He's written, he can be exactly the same every year. We can do this every year, so I don't know that we are, I've said from nine hundredths and a thousand can always write this equally. So it's exactly the same. On the very report on participation, i.e. on the part relating to natural sciences, human sciences, biomedicine and medicine, etc., on the relations within these I would not like to talk but something else intrigued me. In fact, this is about the process being described, so the money that stands out here writes 48 million kunas on 400 projects that have been accepted. That would turn out to be an average of two hundred thousand kuna per project as much as I am, if I'm a good accountant. Okay, maybe we prefer to add and multiply, and less to subtract and divide. But then, after 200,000 kunas per project, but the procedure that can be made is set at 9 points. The only thing I want to know from the gentleman here is how long this process of verification and approval of certain scientific procedures takes. It's not listed here. So I don't see how the average duration of the approval procedure is for each project. At least here's the average. So when someone reports to the Science Foundation their project that the foundation should finance how long the approval procedure takes, how long it takes to get to that money that can finance the project. That's not listed here, and here I'm going to ask if Mr. Executive has such information, because it's not listed here. It doesn't matter here, it says how many men there are, how many women were involved in the work. I don't know, I mean, it might be less important. This would be important because certain projects cannot wait mainly in biomedicine, etc. where people may have already started a particular project, and they need relatively fast cash assistance to continue their work, and here we see procedures that last and last and we have various degrees of decision-making, committees, funds. Here's Mr. Flego I see he's also taking part here. It's really the process of evaluating a particular scientific project. It seems to me that I'm going through a sieve and a filter solution. Now how long does it take me to know because it's important to get someone who can run and who wants some kind of help from the Science Foundation to make it happen as soon as possible? However, we do not have any technical remarks only this year's report, but we regret as well as everyone else that through the foundation, but also through others, so the ministries and the entire government's attitude towards science want to be improved, and we want more Croatia to stand out for it and to invest less in the luxury of state authorities, state authorities, car procurement and paying fees to various agencies, actually setting up jobs and money, and that these money, because there is a smartness in HEP, there is also smartness in Croatian railways, there are smart managers and in all other, in Croatia insurance and in all other companies, in healthcare too. Why do we need someone from France to design a master plan for Croatian hospitals and we have excellent doctors and managers and health professionals? I don't know why! Or someone's getting a job set up, and then half of me, half of you. This attitude towards the Croatian state, according to Croatian institutions, needs to be changed to the Croatian people, so there will be more money for science as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112427	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112428	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Grubisic, I agree with you when you say it is not true that there is no money for science. Of course, if there can be money for various other things in this constitution then certainly at least part of that money spent on the various things that you mentioned, colleagues Marasović and others may be and would have to be used precisely for the science that we care about. But it will be decided by the ruling and probably very soon. Because it must come, I repeat, a series of laws that unfortunately violates financial discipline will have to come very quickly to the budget rebalancing. So we'll see if there's really going to be an increase in the separation from the state's science budget or not. Either what I referred to will happen, but so will you, and there is no explanation why they kept the 2014-2018 strategic plan for a year before it was adopted. What was the reason for that? I don't know him. Someone in this hall may know him, but I don't. Therefore, things are very transparent. The next budget rebalancing will show whether any of the ruling cares about promoting science in this country or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112429	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112430	We had a debate yesterday on public administration and a strategic plan for change in public administration from 2015 to 2020, and the elections are in a few months. Who's getting a strategic plan for public administration? To your government, someone else who should implement this strategy, so changes in public administration from 2015 to 2020. And look, the election's at the door, knocking. So why does someone even bring in three months before I say change or change of government kind of strategically? Just for promiscuous reasons, nothing else. As well as this strategic plan from 2014 to 2018, someone brings yes, as you yourself said, but it is very clear from my debate and shows why it is so. And the fact that I said "colloquial money" has, of course, been a difficult situation in the state, but when we see it, so it's a redistribution of money, that less goes, and that it reduces this waste, waste and luxury in the state administration, reduces the material costs of the state administration that I am in these places, and I could still talk about it all day, that more money is directed towards science. And also at the Science Foundation in the HAZU and in all the institutes that in scientific terms mean something in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112431	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112432	Thank you. I think we're really a phenomenon from the state, when it comes to science we would science like Korea, and when it comes to social rights we would be social rights like in Sweden, when it comes to agriculture, then agriculture would be like in Austria, when industry is then we would industrialize as in Germany and when it comes to standard they would want standard as in Switzerland. And of course such a country would be called Utopia, it's nowhere in the world. Instead of really trying to be aware of some real frameworks of where we are and what we are, we're constantly traveling from unkind to unloved, depending on the subject that appears on the agenda, and so on and now when it comes to science. They'd just give it to everyone. They wouldn't take it anywhere. That's how I don't know that Croatia will... And so it's already been going on for countless years and nothing changes more or less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, of course, when we're constantly forming parainstitials. What's a trust? Well, the foundation is an institution that needs to collect private money. So he can't budget money to distribute to users to establish trust funds. So that's how we travel by establishing a series of para-institutions that distribute budget money in all possible sectors, I don't see that we're going to do anything about it. We're actually just hoarding up obstacles and hoarding them up in all possible areas and in all possible sectors. And that's why I say I also think in science that we should actually focus on results both towards objectives and competitiveness, and not just to concreteize positions that are present in Croatian science only to concreteize positions and strengthen the positions of those who have those positions. And of course, young Croatian scientists leave Croatia and work for them and for those or a little more money in the United States, but they work where they can work, and unfortunately in Croatia they can't work not just for money, but for the state of the science system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112433	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112434	Comrade Djurovic, you have only explained what I said in my first part of the debate, so why there is a foundation at all. If the foundation is then it implies that it is concerned that through donations, sponsorships, interested businessmen collect money and finance certain programmes. But here you see here is exclusively funding from the state budget, 79 million kuna. When we read this report, then you can see how much money has been collected in the first place, even so much on banks and interest that are minimal interest, because they are not some kind of interest, but they are spent on these two pages and about 3 Croatian banks are made interest in some thousands of kunas. That's very interesting. Both you and I know exactly what this is about and that it is concreteizing the position of some call and let's say the authority in the sciences that exist but they may also have to be rewarded in some other way than by positioning in the Croatian Foundation for Science. And when it comes to money itself, then I repeat again, we have examples, and we have the solution that he has offered, so as soon as he comes to power, Mr. Francois Hollande, the French president who has abolished many benefits and so on. as someone answers my rights here, acquired the rights of high-ranking state officials starting with a dog walking car or going to the market, and everything else, cards and cell phones and all that expensive, and we know that the state administration has gotten itself expensive smart phones so that they don't have to suffer to establish a relationship. So that state is what you call utopia has another novel called in the state of Neverland. Unfortunately, we can't achieve that Utopia or the Neverland, but I don't want to talk about these other states, I don't have enough time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112435	Now we're going to hear the final presentation of the chairman of the board of directors of the Dari Wrettenar Academy Foundation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112436	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me thank the honourable MPs for this very valuable debate and positive evaluations. I'd also like to answer some questions that are raised here. The basis of the development of each modern society is knowledge and scientific results, but scientific results and knowledge create scientific research and they have a price. As these scientific research becomes more complex and the resources that need to be invested in growth research in every country, so should we. And here, perhaps, to clarify this ratio of funds that are given to the foundation and which is a lot, which is a little bit. The funds for scientific research become those that are in some way fixed, which are allocated for salaries, scientific institutes, for colleges, and that makes up a large part of those several billion that go to research and science and higher education. However, there is one segment that is scientific projects assigned on a competitive basis. So we have certain resources, projects are reported, and now those who are better and those who promise more results, and which we therefore value, we give them funds. In the tradition of all European countries is the establishment of such Foundations for Science. At this moment in Europe, 53 scientific foundations that finance scientific research operate in the way the Croatian Foundation for Science does. A little while ago, France, the CNRS has a budget of over 3 billion euros, there is a CEA which also has a budget of over 3 billion euros and which thus finance science. The part in most European countries is trying to ensure that these allocations are independent, independent of policy, independent of the ministries that draft the state policy, which outlines the objectives and is then on the foundations to find the best way to use public funds. The strategic objective, the strategic plan of the foundation is based on the strategy, on the state strategy of science and higher education. And now we're coming up with these funds, the state strategy says that 0.15% of GDP is going through the foundation, and that's about 500 million kuna right now. Where did that percentage come from and where did it come from? If we look at how in other countries they stand out for science, whether they stand out a lot or not, but what separates one major part goes in the way I described before, and one smaller part, and that's the 0.15% that passes directly through state foundations. And at this point in Croatia, that 0.15% would be somewhere around 500 million, but the reality is that this amount this year is about 100 million kuna. The question was also asked whether 79 million kunas were much or little compared to the 5 million kunas that were in 2008. But then the model was a completely different model of state allocation through the Ministry of Science, so the Ministry of Science only invested about 150 million kunas annually plus 5 million kunas of the foundation that was 155 million kuna. But at this point, the ministry is going zero kunas into projects, the foundation is going 79 million kunas, and I'm leaving the math to do it ourselves. That's the reduction you're talking about. Since a sub-financing has indeed taken place, it is understood that the strategic objectives of the foundation have been questioned. Again, the strategic objectives of the foundation in the strategy this Assembly has adopted are recently based on the state Science and Higher Education Strategy. Today, these objectives come into question in the first row is to ensure permanent sources of funding because what has already been this year has not been an increase in the allocation for science and also through the foundation, is not foreseen in budget projections for 2015 and 2016 and this means that the Foundation can no longer assume new commitments. The Fund with these funds is funding at this point around a little over 400 projects, and actually the foundation can't take over new projects. I'd like to answer the question of the evaluation process itself. The evaluation process takes about 6 months between 6 and 7 months, and that is common, it is within the European average. Namely, the evaluation process itself requires evaluation in scientific committees, in panels, and then what takes the most time is a review of these project proposals that I would like to stress once again, although this report states that a complete review of all scientific projects is carried out by foreign experts and we finance projects when two independent reviewers, two independent scientists who are not from Croatia give a positive review and say that the project is worth singleing out the funds. After that, one more look at the panel, one more look at the board, and we finally approve of the funding. This process takes several months in Europe and the world, depending on whether the competitions are being explored in the annual cycles or whether the competition is being opened. If the tender is continuously open then the procedure takes a bit shorter. I also wanted to answer the question of the role of state resources in the foundations and their collection and collection of funds from donations. Science Foundations in Europe are not about collecting donations, that's not their purpose. There are a lot of smaller foundations that may be collecting donations and finding funds for smaller goals, and if we want to finance science and scientific research at the state level, this cannot be based on donations or it can depend on donations. It must become a stable source of funding and the only stable source of funding is the budget. If we look at the German DFG Science Foundation, its 99% funding source is the original budget of federal and regional. If you look at the Swiss Science Foundation that has a budget of about a billion francs it's almost 99, something is a budget source. If we want to go across the ocean National Science founding has a budget of about 7.5 billion dollars, but all that money is budget money. There's no other funding source to secure stable funding. We can, of course, find a donation one year, that donation when we find it, it goes into projects and all the resources that manage to save go into projects and all the funds that we get from some interest go into projects, but it can't replace stable funding. Would you be willing to report the project and commit to working on one subject for 4.5 years, but the funds will be if we find some kind of donation. Of course young people won't do it. One of the main dangers if we fail to keep one stable financing cycle is precisely young people and leaving young people. Last year, as reported in the report for the first time in almost 3.4 years, we secured a significant number of young scientists entering the system, so it was last year 180 PhDs, this year we simply don't have the means to do so. I already said once at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, the Ruđer Boskovic Institute won 28 doctoral seats on foundation projects and other international projects. In those 28 places, 400 young PhDs or graduates competed, 400. They're our best students. We managed to hire 28. The remaining 350 will not wait here for another cycle of such competitions, most of them have already gone and the doctorate is working somewhere abroad. He would answer, one of the important goals that only partly last year managed to launch is just co-operation with the economy and that was one issue. We have a program called "Partnership in Research" which is designed to help scientists from public institutes and universities find a partner in the economy, report a joint project, the Fund finance it with half the amount and half the amount that a partner from the economy and this project can last 2, 3 years and these amounts are not really negligible. In fact, when you look at the state there gives a lot more money, it's not only the amount for projects but also for a partner who comes from a public institute or public institution, it's paid, space, etc. So more. However, interest is really weak. Interest is weak, we are trying to increase the number of applications for this competition but there is something, that is one type of project where partners from the economy would have to invest directly, they are not willing to do so. We have a lot of success and especially now it's been called, these competitions for, collaboration with the diaspora and our diaspora really and with these small resources we have there are good results and because our scientists have good cooperation with scientists in the world in general, especially with our diaspora and that we also have an ongoing competition. And finally, what we're seriously starting to be behind is just involving our scientists in a European research space. As we've heard it's not just a matter of application, it's a matter of investment, it's a matter of resources that we're willing to invest so that our scientists can participate in networking, in joint collaboration projects. And we can't just count on funding from European funds, but of course, we must also have our own resources. European funds are in some way a complementary source of funding or should be a complementary source of funding, they cannot, by their nature, replace stable national funding. They are very often limited to a very short duration of 2, 3 years. And even these projects that go like the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge, where projects are for 2 years, where they start doing PhDs on these projects. But the project takes 2 years, the doctorate can't doctor in 2 years, it takes more time, it takes 4 years at least to doctor, and that means that then there must be national funding that will take over and complete the funding of the PhD. So once again, the role of these foundations isn't to simply distribute funds, it's not agencies. At least the foundation's office, the foundation's administration and these committees, they give only one structure. If we look at who is involved in the work of the foundation, at this point it is several thousand scientists who report projects, those who value these projects and propose them for funding, organized into panels and committees and then finally, and of course there is one office that is actually very, very small and that provides administrative assistance and eventually some structure that must exist that is responsible for the final funding, for the distribution of funds. However, the idea of these foundations is that scientists also report and participate in the evaluation process and in the process of evaluation and monitoring of projects. So it's a self-regulatory system of scientific research. This can't be done anymore, it used to be done in many countries through the ministries. It is no longer done in any European country or in the United States or Japan or so, it is not done through the ministries and is not done anywhere by agencies. The agencies have another role, here is the role, the role of the foundation is that these funds that are intended for competitive research are distributed in the best possible way. And those who participate in these studies will know best. Of course, each of them, each layer has its own role and scientist who has now reported the project and received the project already in the next round he is the one who evaluates the project. There aren't any others. And therefore that role cannot be replaced with the agency. And yet another important role is just scientific but not just scientific spring, today as research, but how else does human activity become increasingly complex we have to have young people who are increasingly educated and who have growing specialization. That's why you're a doctor. It is not necessary for all those who acquire the calling of a doctor of science to remain in the system of science but this additional education, this additional experience in scientific work is actually invaluable in their transition to the economy sector. Once again, the only way we're going to educate these young scientists is for them to actually spend their scientific apprenticeship on projects. They can't be in the vacuum. We can't say we'll take a few hundred young people, put them in colleges, the institutes, and then wait for them to doctor. They can only doctor on projects like this. If this kind of project doesn't have a doctorate, then there's no doctorate. If, but there's another connection, if there's no such young people, these projects serve nothing. So, that's one, we have to have, we don't have a lot of resources, we don't have a lot of money, but we could probably separate more from what we're separating right now. And what has been the role of the foundation has been so far and we will try to continue to use public funds in the most efficient way and in the most useful way. Let me just have two more things to answer, and that was a question of whether we should actually invest only in innovation, in application, in competitiveness etc. This is a very complex issue, however, in countries such as Croatia's investment only in applied and innovative research does not actually increase competitiveness. Such research in the countries of this stage of development is mainly used for the transfer of technology and for the transfer of knowledge, for the transfer of technology. They don't directly create new competitiveness. In addition, innovative research is at least three times more expensive than basic research. We do not have the means to directly compete with applied research in developed countries. What we can create are young people who can be competitive with their colleagues in other countries and who will eventually withdraw these research. Let me finally give you an example. At the physics study of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, I teach a college of quantum physics, quantum mechanics. For most of us it is actually a very abstract object, but at this point 30% of the world economy is based on very, very direct applications of quantum mechanics, from electronics, telecommunications to biomedicine, health care, food production. I wouldn't know everything, of course, but I believe that whatever application here or modern technology would indicate a direct application of one really research that is very fundamental. So last year, the Croatian Foundation for Science managed to finance some 250 new projects with 50 million, and it is, on average, less than 200,000 kuna per year, per project. That's a little bit. With such research, in some areas, global competitive research can also work with these resources. Not in all, you can't in biomedicine, you can't in many areas of natural science, technical sciences especially. There's a lot more expensive research. And so our scientists, of course, try to rely on their own and connect with their partners in Europe and the world. We wish we could give more. This year we will finance another 200 projects but if we cannot get additional funding for 2016, 2017 we are actually stagnating with a number of projects that are not enough for Croatia, and it is particularly worrying that we have again stopped the entry of young scientists into the system. Thank you very much. I hope I answered your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112437	Thank you very much. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112438	Dear Mr. Academyman, President of the Foundation. I thank you very much for all these answers that you have given to work hard to answer each and every one of you and I am personally pleased that all the clubs have supported this report. However, I want to say something that I am sorry for, which you too must attend, and what often happens in the Croatian Parliament, and when we agree on something we must spoil with our behaviour, i.e. when we agree on something. The hypocrisy and then the credibility and what has been said and what has been done is lost. Here's how your colleague Reiner, an academic, can very well agree with what he was saying, but he spoke here, and it bothers me, and I am reporting and apologizing for the whole policy being humiliated and humiliated. The gentleman speaks and calls here how few advocates are present, how little is taken care of and thus show how our relationship with science is. That's what he said and ran away. I don't care what he came for, what he ran away, but it bothers me because it violates the integrity and credibility of this entire house and all of us who are here and everything we've said. ... Don't defend what you won't defend. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112439	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please. Please be quiet. We'll vote on the foundation's annual report tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112440	The annual report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2014, the annual report debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′Accepting the Annual Report of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2014.’. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 87 for, 1 abstention and nothing against. This ended today's vote and decision-making on the final debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112441	Since, for the next point, the applicants have asked for the transfer for the afternoon debate because they have obligations in the morning, we will now move on to - Proposal for uniform methodological and technical rules for the production of documents adopted by the Croatian Assembly of Acts is the Legislative Committee in accordance with Article 62. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of rules, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. I now ask the chairman of the board, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112442	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It has been included in our agenda for a long time, and I believe that you have studied them all well. So, what's this all about? Allow a few introductory words. The foundations of each legally regulated state are its regulations. They determine the legal order of the state, the operation of state bodies, the conduct of legal entities and their relations. Creating these relationships, i.e. their legal design is of exceptional importance to the one who makes those regulations, and that is all of us as a body and individually as possible promoters. So and so on the one for which these regulations are passed. Today, there is an increase in the number of legal regulations, because respecting the principle of legality and the requirement for the integrity of the legal system is growing and the number of social relations that are legally regulated and they are not only multiplying but becoming more complex and complex. Therefore, any regulation for the purpose of legal certainty and its application in practice must have an appropriate structure, content and expression which should primarily be concise, precise, clear and precise. Legal science on the structure of rules and general acts, and their work is done by nomotechnics. Nomotechnics are a separate scientific discipline which, based on the principle of constitutionality and legality, seeks to achieve clarity of the normative language and style, and consistency, coherence and coherence of norms and as such is constantly changing, producing and improving. In most European legal order, there are established principles, rules, methods and guidelines on the basis of which regulations are made. These acts in all countries are brought by different bodies than parliaments, individual ministries, commissions, and even courts themselves. In the Republic of Croatia there are no such unique nomotechnical rules or guidelines that professional law-making holders would already be used in practice, as well as in various literature of legal and nomotechnical sciences. As a result, there are a large number of regulations which are inadequately made or are inconsistencies in their expression which contribute to their inapplicability or by applying them create legal uncertainty. Therefore, when the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was adopted, the Croatian Parliament, i.e. Here we have established the obligation that the text of the bill must be drawn up in accordance with the unique methodological, nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which we call the Colloquial and shortened rules. So, the proposal for these rules as well as its amendments to the Legislative Committee proposes to adopt, of course, although he goes into one reading, we expect and I personally expect all of us from the Committee on Legislatives to have a joint debate. A whole series of proposals and concrete amendments, therefore, to make this text, or our rules, as best as possible. Therefore, the aim of the rules is to remove what was often and impossible, because we did not have this one legal framework, we really needed rules to remove inconsistencies, doubts, incomprehensibility and other errors that arise in the making of the rules, and to ensure a single legislative methodology, and a time-consistency and no-technically uniform expression of the acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So, at its 86th session, the Legislative Committee also appointed a working group. In that working group were representatives of the opposition and representatives of the government, the ruling furniture, that is, most of the assembly which is on its table, so the Committee has proposed a draft draft of these rules after the working group has drawn up a draft at its 100th session. After a public debate has been held, and I must say that this public debate has lasted a long time, perhaps unusually for much more complex laws, let alone for one, for such a legal act. However, I must tell you that even after that, we have had a great period of communication with the interested and professional public. It was not until after that deadline, and it was not a strict and pre-exclusive deadline, so a whole series of proposals came along, suggestions, concrete amendments, almost finished amendments. They can't be called legal, they can almost by their content be called amendments, but after that we have respected them, we may have classified them as not a single proposal exactly because it's just our tendency, so that we all participate together and that the only one, can be the ultimate goal not from whom it comes but that from anyone who has a good proposal we haven't hesitated to take on board. And that is why you can see that we also have a lot of amendments that have been adopted by us, so on the Legislative Committee have been unanimously adopted and become an integral part of this text. However, I encourage you once again that every proposal, I see, is already some clubs, that it is already a Labour Club – parties of work and what I can say on behalf of the board, that I can already estimate that it is very high-quality amendments, or amendments themselves, and we will see what will finally be the position of the entire committee. So the rules are made on the basis of all of what I've told you, but also on the basis of available literature, acts of other countries but also good practices so far. I will highlight only some important proposals, i.e. the contents of the draft rules. So that defines what can even be considered a regulation in terms of these rules. The formal structure and content of certain parts of the regulations as well as the language, terminology, style and spelling in the regulation are defined and a clearer reference to the applicable law is made to the provisions of the novel, which is an independent regulation especially in the case of transitional and final provisions. You know we've had a lot of big problems here. He even reacted to the Constitutional Court. And it's clearer how to change and supplement the regulation. We have assessed, and what we are looking for in the Committee, in order to facilitate the finding and study of matter, that, in the process of making amendments and supplementing certain rules, it must not be changed more times and, as a rule, after three amendments, but in general, which means that more changes may be possible, but if they are not important and over-expanded and/or established consolidated text, a new regulation will, of course, depend on the complexity of the scope of changes and additions. It is also defined as an amendment and it is more clearly defined the meaning, content and method of determining the consolidated text of the regulations. Therefore, do not continue to consider this proposal, although it is only one reading, do not consider it final. I am here, speaking on behalf of the board, expecting a debate, expecting concrete proposals, we expect amendments to have really rules on which all the proposings, the authorised applicants, will then be those who come from the government or here which we propose on behalf of the club or individually in the beginning will be such proposals as to prevent different interpretations which will then lead to legal uncertainty and serious concerns of the citizens. So the ultimate goal of all this work together is more legal certainty for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112443	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Work parties of fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112444	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. First I'm going to start a debate with a dilemma, I'm not sure, I'm asking, namely the name of the document of the Act Making Rules. I think one document like this must have and it would be good to be applied by local and regional self-government units in their work. Very good reading or instructions on how legal acts are drawn up. However, these rules also contain certain provisions that do not apply to the rules on production but are procedural. So they're prescribing certain procedures. They're for example. The provisions of Articles 49, 59, 60, 64, 68 where they are entangled in the matter of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, and I am not sure whether that part of the rules should be in the Rules of Procedure or in the rules which are also referred to as rules for the making, writing and preparation of laws or other acts. It's good that we prescribe these rules, I'd say we impose, a rule of conduct that the names of acts are as simple and short as possible because often from the title of laws and other legal acts we make real papasias which are impossible to pronounce and read, often unnecessary with the use of many foreign words. I hope that these rules will cut down all the proposings who will try to put at least half the content in the act's name. Now I'm going to further explain the amendments, the five amendments we've submitted, set out good or less good solutions. The first amendment concerns Article 10(2). In particular, Article 10 refers to the fact that the relationship between regulations and other regulations is determined immediately in the introductory provisions, and paragraph 2 allows it to be in the central part of the regulation to be exceptional in certain circumstances. We believe that paragraph 2 should also be deleted and this rule that the relationship between regulations and other regulations must be stated in the introductory section as the only rule. By the way, I would like to warn you that, in their amendment to Article 10, e. e., they have deleted what is good but you remain in paragraph 2. the point e is mentioned. But if you accept our amendment to delete the entire item, then it's okay. I consider Article 14 to be an extremely good solution, to establish a rule that legal acts are written in a natively sensitive language by using a gender neutral form and that the laws and legal acts do not include the applicant, the proponent, the applicant, the applicant, but the native neutral form, and in this way we solve the diversity of access because it is understood that any such expression in the gender sense is a neutral expression. Next, my reference to Article 18(4) is not allowed to lay down the authorisation under which under the sublaw the conditions under which certain rights are exercised. This provision, in my opinion, was extremely significant because we often had a situation where conditions for the exercise of certain rights of citizens or other interested parties were left to regulate sublaws. And I find that inadmissible, and I think this provision has a very high value. I hope no one proposes to delete her. The following applies to Article 19(1), where I am not sure until the end. In particular, paragraph 1 states that when laying down criminal provisions, it is necessary to ensure that criminal offences and criminal sanctions are prescribed by the Penal Code, and only exceptionally states specific rules. I am asking a question here, and since a new form of crime often occurs, does not mean that we will have to change the Penal Code too often or supplement it to monitor what is happening in the criminal sphere. So my inquiry to the Legislative Committee is whether this provision in paragraph 1 must stand? The second amendment applies to Article 31(2) and allows for this, namely Article 2(2) reads "The article must have only one item and may have several items." The formulation of the sea has only one, and it can no longer go together, so we would still have to change that if it had at least one item, and it could have more. Then it's a language correct provision. The following amendment to Article 37(1), (2) and (3), where we simply propose a completely new formulation relating to the use of foreigners or foreign expressions in legal acts, in particular in laws. Yesterday we witnessed in a debate on the Public Administration Strategy where too many foreign expressions were and this rarely happened, so they were primarily written in foreign words and the Croatian meaning was placed in brackets. These rules impose or allow the possibility of using aliens but first Croatian expression and the foreigner in brackets. And in order for this norm to be clear, I think that the article should simply reshape as we have suggested it in a way that should not be avoided but the use of foreign foreign expressions in the text of the regulation is not allowed. So to enable as in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 only if it is inevitable with a mandatory Croatian language and foreign expressions in brackets. Article 40(2), if I am not mistaken, refers to the use, prohibition or instructions not to use words that do not mean anything or can mean anything in legal acts. Like immediately without delay, timely, generally similar, so what does it mean in a timely manner without delay and this as a rule? But there is one problem, Mrs. Ingrid, and these rules several times, and you use the word as a rule, and even in one of your amendments you propose to add a word to the rule. I'll get to him and warn him about it. So if we're telling others that words should be avoided as a rule, then even in this document, I don't think they should be. Article 49(3) is our amendment number 4.a relating to the sensitive area of frequent amendments and addition of laws. Paragraph 3 of these rules provides that if more than half of the articles are amended by law, they should be approached by offering a new law rather than by amending the amendments. We thought that instead of half should be one third. Paragraph 4 of the Rules refers to the obligation to write a new regulation after the third amendment. So there could be no more than three changes and additions. And now, in its amendment, the Committee proposes to add the word "generally after the third amendment". We said we shouldn't use the word as a rule because it's usually not binding, and it's going to make it possible again that some law has a 17th amendment and a supplement. And that's why we're offering a solution, so it's hard for us to accept this by putting it into the rule of amendment committee, and that's why we're offering a simple formulation that we think should be acceptable to everyone. Where the regulation is amended or complemented several times, it is necessary to access the adoption of a new regulation after the third amendment or supplementation if these amendments or amendments have been amended by more than one third of the articles of the basic Regulation. So if, through three amendments and additions, more than one third of the basic regulation provisions are amended then there is no fourth amendment and supplementation but a new law. This solution for us is extremely important and important because with too many amendments and additions of regulations, we create legal uncertainty so that judges can find it hard to read the law. I hope that it is now clarified whether writing acts will use an expression to add a provision or amendment or a supplement before or before something or after. Because sooner or later there's a time mark for no place, so I think it's right in front and behind, not before and after. Article 59(2) is our amendment number 5 and it refers to the improvement of the text in paragraph 2. It says that amendments can be submitted by representatives in the Croatian Parliament and then by a group of MPs. A group of MPs are already a crowd so they would propose to agree with the Rules of Procedure. So every MP and group of MPs then it's plural. The 64th paragraph of Article 4 shall be subject to the obligation to publish the consolidated text of the regulations. There is now a re-use of the wording of the consolidated text of the rules is established as a rule after major and more extensive amendments and additions to a regulation which should not be less than three, and we believe that these rules should be clearly defined that the consolidated text of the law must be made up, published when these regulations are at least three times amended or supplemented. It is also impossible for us MPs to follow the 9th, 12th, 17th or 18th amendments and to supplement a law, and therefore we believe that this obligation to publish consolidated texts after the third amendment and supplementation would be a major contribution to making it easier to understand laws, regulations, legal acts and sublegal acts that are not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament but other bodies and local self-government or executive authorities. So, with these amendments, we try to or explain, fix, but some where it is especially with the obligation to propose new laws, not to amend and publish consolidated texts, of course, that they are essential character. And if the board accepts them, we will support these rules with light hearts and calm consciences. And to end, to make a joke, all those who write the laws, regardless of who they are, must remember that the law consists, and these rules impose it, part one, chapter one, chapter one, section one, item one, item one, item one, item two, and for each one it is prescribed, as well as I believe that different resolutions, different ministries will learn this because the marking of parts of chapters, chapters one, paragraphs one, and especially items and sub-items each ministry has so far used its own methodology, each one in its own way, so that once it took five times to count which part of the article is thought when they proposed amendments and supplements. And after the adoption of these rules, every draft law that comes into the process, which is not in agreement with this, will be rejected in the course of surrender and any further procedure to force these rigorous approaches to the proposings to respect this prescribed methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112445	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112446	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I believe you agree, and I think you have said that these rules are good, important and necessary, and I would only point out to two of your observations in the debate regarding article 40 where you point to item 2 where the use of common but incorrect definitions is said and is now said which are immediately, etc., immediately without delay, in due course, etc. as much as possible to avoid. So here are the board presidents, but I also suggest that both this formulation and this formulation as much as possible avoid actually leaves that space that we are fighting. As much as possible to avoid it means that it will not be avoided because everyone who runs out of expression will use these exact words, so it should be harmonised, so it should be avoided. I agree with the proposal to avoid this because these are the rubber provisions that lead to the inaccuracy of the rules of law and then very often to major problems in interpretation. And as regards Article 59 of the amendments, I agree, it is necessary to clarify in paragraph 2. any MP may submit an amendment, often not at all recognised or sufficiently known in public. So I suggest that your proposal be accepted that every MP because that is the fact that in the end constitutional and legal provisions and obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112447	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112448	My colleague Kosor, I agree with you, a rubber provision when you write in law in due time, for someone it may be within 5 minutes, for someone 5 years and it should be avoided. I agree with you that it would be better not to use it. And that is why I also appeal from the legislator to them to give up these amendments where they offer the use of words as a rule. In the original text, there is no such thing, and then the amendment offers, if I can find it quickly, in Article 49(4), the proposal to put words in the rule. So we should generally avoid using the word as a rule, that's the goal. As a rule, we should avoid using the word... Now, but I suggest there's no rule. Give up the word generally at least in this act and let's make others not use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112449	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Škara Ozbolt. She's not there, the club's losing the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to thank the presidents of the Committee on Legislatives and all the members on the proposal, and I thank the entire committee for a good initiative, and in essence that will make it easier to make it easier for the Committee on Legislatives, because all the laws, all the proposals that come through that committee, and they will make it significantly easier for us to work if we get, if we accept this proposal to write certain legal acts. Furthermore, in the approach to the adoption of this proposal, the Legislative Committee respected the maximum procedure, consulted relevant stakeholders from private persons to ministries, to institutions and all had the opportunity to make their observations. That's what we think is really good. And what they would confirm is that this will not be an exception in Europe, the European Union, but that many parliaments in the European Union have been resolved in this quality way. And we believe in the Croatian People's Party club that this is a good step. The Legislative Committee sent a clear proposal to the Croatian Parliament, which clearly meant that all those acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament have one, I would say in the language of naturalists uniformly in approach and that is certainly good. What is important is that the creation of acts brought by the Croatian Assembly through a unique methodology, a unique legal technique and a time-consistency. This is what is very important in the clarity of every law, every regulation, that no further interpretation is required. And we think that through this rulebook it's perfectly used and excellently give instructions and actually a little bit can be wrong. As a single act in Croatia, there are no unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts by the Croatian Parliament. That's why we think this is a very good way to do it. Until the adoption of this proposal, various literature in the field of legal and nomotechnical science is used in the production of legal and other acts, this has a different practice and different methodology and nomotechnical expression. The consequence of this approach is that the Committee on Law has often made very specific remarks on the methodology, the terminology is not clear, but if we have this approach then it will certainly be much easier and much clearer regulation. On the occasion of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the National Journal 81 of 2013 the Croatian Parliament established the obligation that the text of the law must be drawn up in accordance with the unique methodological rules for making. So we also have the basis in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for this act to be passed. What is most important is that these rules address the basic issues that need to be regulated: a unique technique of drawing up an act containing rules in relation to the content, form, language, style and method of writing, rules for the making of a whole act, its amendments or additions, and the submission of amendments to the adoption process, the rules concerning the making-up of the adopted act, the determination of the consolidated text, and the provision of credible interpretation. What we consider to be of particular importance is that Article 2 speaks of the meaning of these rules under regulation: the Constitution, constitutional law, law, law, rules of procedure, regulation, regulation, instructions, guidance, recommendation, order, decision or other general acts. That's what we think is perfectly defined here. We also believe that it is of particular importance in Article 2(4), that the rules can also be applied in local self-government and regional administration units, which we consider to be certainly good and that we should see that in fact this Regulation is not only a rulebook for the Croatian Parliament but that it is one of the cornerstones of the rules in the complete and public administration of the Republic of Croatia. What's also important is that, and that's what my colleague Lesar said that this content accurately defines Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3. etc., where it is specified almost in the details of how to formulate, which I express to be used. And we believe that this is very good material or good act that will significantly facilitate and monitor the acts brought by the Croatian Parliament and make it significantly easier to write certain acts that will be used later in, which will start to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The result of the adoption of this Regulation will be provided by a unique methodology and by a legally harmonised and nomotechnically uniform statement in the acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In this way it will be removed in a number of cases inconsistency, doubt and error, and in part the need to give interpretation, as well as credible interpretations. We have had the opportunity here to see that precisely methodologically and explicitly from the Croatian Government's ministries come unequal materials. That's why we think that this act and the rules of this kind are of paramount importance. And for the sake of legal certainty, if the acts are clear and uniform legislative methodology, all acts will be uniform and will be easier to follow and will be more enforceable without further interpretation. The Croatian People's Party club is fully in agreement and supports the adoption of such a proposal for a unique methodological nomotechnical rule for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament. We'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112451	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112452	I'd like to thank my colleague and colleagues. We will just briefly refer to the proposal for a unique methodological-nomotechnic rule for the making of acts because we simply through this debate and our comment we want to support this whole initiative. We would like to commend the motionor. We believe from both the point of view of the profession and from the point of view of some work experience in the legislative body or in Parliament at the adoption of all regulations so far, it has been shown that the need for this problem to be standardised, to unify and introduce order in the rules on the way, about nomotechnical regulation. We think this could have been on the agenda before and that the importance of these rules would have been much larger then than it is now, but this is also not a bad solution. I'm just going to say a few things anyway, so it's hard to live in a society where legal regulations are often changed because citizens get used to not respecting them. It's one of the sayings Aristotle said and I think it's the basis of all of this that we're doing today. The laws in the Republic of Croatia are changed and complemented so often, we have seen this in practice and in a range that points to a relative danger to the threat of legal certainty. Of course, it raises questions and trust in the legal system and its arrangement and clarity. Amendments and additions are often incomprehensible to those not applied, and if these changes are addressed to ordinary citizens who are not academically educated, then we see that we have rather incomprehensible messages through these regulations that we bring, and also because of frequent changes they do not have enough time for people, the consummations of these regulations to be introduced to them and those bodies that are obliged to implement them. The comment of a citizen we came to, who commented on the club's work so far and said that the production of the law is such that he can barely read the law, and then the law is already changing. So that's not a good message. We also have examples of practice here, so we can say that the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities has been in force since '92. years, but he's changed 11 times. There is no consolidated text, and some of the provisions in it are obsolete. The Law on civil servants is about a law that originally has 153 articles and has survived as many as 8 amendments and additions that 9 sets of transitional and final provisions that make it a legal cabbage that is difficult to cope with. In the transitional and final provisions, the question is what they refer to. We also have the Law on PPDS, which is very important for the area of special state care and has become completely incomprehensible due to frequent changes, and the Constitutional Court has warned that some articles are not even in line with the Constitution. Therefore, it is one condition which certainly indicates that the adoption of these uniform rules of nomochniks was necessary. This rule would be if we adopted in the club we think it would be very good nomotechnical guidelines that would regulate the making of acts at all levels, not only in this legislative body, but also at regional and local levels, regional and local self-government, in order to first of all to create certain professional skills that it requires, therefore raises the level of professional skills of making acts required by the legal profession of the world today. We also point out that these nomotechnical standardisations have already brought countries into the environment so I can say that Slovenia and BiH have brought it, so I assume that the countries of the European Union have brought it. In any case, we at the SDSS club support the adoption of these standards and consider professionally well-proposed and well-qualityd. They may not be the ultimate thing, possibly that they will suffer certain changes, but what we have read here, we see that the intention is to bring legal certainty and remove all those ambiguities in the making of legal acts. We underestimate this thing, we don't think it matters, but in getting quality regulations, it's very important nomotechnics as they are done. Finally, it is also a special science at the Faculty of Law, nomotechnics are specifically studied, the way all acts are produced, and especially the highest category of these regulations such as the Constitution, constitutional laws and laws. So we will support these proposals, we consider them welcome, we congratulate them on the idea and the need for it to be done, and now I will just go through a few articles, look back, not in terms of remarks, but in terms of loud thinking, so that some things can get even better. Article 2 refers to the application in relation to facilities and is defined within the meaning of these rules as to what the rules are, all the rules are listed and then paragraph 4 states that these rules can also apply in the process of drawing up the rules of the units of local and regional and regional self-government. We think we should stand here instead of being able to, or apply. So if we're obliged to standardise the nomotechnical making of all rules at the highest level, and we want to be serious legal system, and if we say that regulations in the regulation category are entered and decisions and other general acts, then we think that this standard should also be achieved at the level of local and regional self-government because they also make no less significant regulations, no less significant decisions and acts than we do. And there is no need for them to be different forms, nomotechnically lower quality than these rules that are adopted in the Croatian Parliament. So they should apply these standards to make their own rules by us. The relevant thing is Article 18 which speaks is not allowed to establish an authorisation under which a lower sublegal act would lay down the conditions under which the rights or obligations or conditions for carrying out a particular activity are exercised, as this can only be established by law. Well, that's good because we've actually had a hyperproduction of sublegal acts so far, so we've seen that every little bit of law we have and then we say that we're going to solve a certain thing. The minister will settle with his regulation and some other form of sublaw. And it was one real hyperproduction of such a normative arrangement, we think it's not good and that all these key things should be defined by law, which we often require in our discussions. And it is good that this Article 18 is now put into place and that it is precisely prescribed what can be regulated by the basic law, and what can then be regulated by sublaws. In Article 19, we have criminal provisions, i.e. infringements. It shall be stated in paragraph 3 that the regulation if it is binding or prohibiting criminal provisions is mandatory. This is very important to say because we often have regulations, or laws that do not have a sanction prescribed. So they have no obligation to prescribe criminal provisions. And then these laws become hollower laws because they can't be implemented. For example, we asked for an amendment to the Law on School Education, so among other things, we were given the opportunity to transfer the founding rights for the establishment of schools, primary schools from the county to local self-government if local self-government so requires, or if the municipal council makes such a decision. But there's no sanction that says what happens if the county doesn't agree to transfer the founding law. So we created a regulation that revolves around itself, and it's essential, and we won't be able to realize it because we won't, because we haven't created it again, I repeat the sanctions that will force the enforcement of that provision. The feedback is something that in the legal theory is a very sensitive subtle thing and the feedback is resorted to, so the retroactive action of the regulations is resorted to in very exceptional cases. I would like the Proposer to explain Article 23, because through these three paragraphs, the possibility of retroactive action of regulations is quite broadly laid down. I haven't read out of all of this where there are special restrictions, it's pretty much everything in general, and I'd like to be explained in which cases the rules regarding civil matters can be retroactively applied to criminal matters, and we know what the theory of retroactive application of regulations is saying. And the last thing to use language. Article 37, I think it's extremely well solved. We have often seen that we use terms that are inappropriate for neither ears nor legal text, and especially for our users who can hardly pronounce the word "outsourcing" and should be interpreted and applied in practice. And then when we have it in our regulation, people wonder who wrote such a bill. We saw yesterday in the Management Strategy that we have a pretty foreigner, quite English words. Is it modernism or is it a necessity or is it a warrant? I don't think it's a warrant, it's not a need, it's a trend in fashion. And I think it's a good solution, absolutely must use Croatian literary language to make regulations, to define regulations, and only when it's an exceptional need then should it be some kind of name in Latin or some kind of alien or so on. So if through these three, four comments we were able to improve the quality of these rules, I would be pleased. We at the SDSS Club welcome this initiative and we will support the proposed rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112453	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112454	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Horvat agreed with you, and my colleagues had already said that it was not good, and we've repeated it a billion times here in the assembly. It's not good to change laws many times. You mentioned some multiples, so more than a dozen times that we've changed, and I agree. That's the problem. However, I think so, but of course it's not a subject that we could specifically discuss under these rules. But much bigger seems to me the problem that some of the laws we apply today in the Republic of Croatia have been taken over from some past times, for example from 1978. So, all these years of free and independent independent democratic Croatia, we have not passed a law that, according to which an abortion would be carried out in the Republic of Croatia, we are applying the laws of the former state. I also consider it one of the jobs that must finally be done in the Croatian Parliament. There's more of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112455	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112456	I thank my colleague Kosor, that's a good suggestion anyway. But don't mind me, but nomotechnics is a way of making regulations, and what we're applying some old laws, regulations that are thematically inadequate of today's time, is one topic that the executive authority should be thinking about, that is, the resolution ministry, and simply put aside the laws that you've now said to replace them with new, more modern legal solutions. The fact is that we started to fabricate regulations and that we don't have almost a sphere of social life where we haven't changed every bit of the basic regulations that govern this sphere. And that's not good, that's what people see as confusion, people see as certain legal uncertainty and say that we exist here just to produce regulations that change every little bit. That's not good from the point of view of the seriousness of the legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112457	And the final word of the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, colleagues Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112458	Thank you very much. This debate has shown that, indeed, not only as a body, and we are individually legislators that all the colleagues who discussed it may not have considered it necessary, for some others have already appeared, not only have they studied the matter but they are here on their own ground. I can't say it decidently now, but as soon as the terms are obtained, the committee will decide on these written amendments, but also there have been very interesting objections and suggestions that have not been reached here until the conclusion of this debate in the form of amendments, but we will have a phonogram so that we will carefully examine once again in the full composition of all the comments, proposals and, of course, decide on the amendments. It was a concrete question, a matter of retroactivity. The issue of retroactivity in civil and criminal law differs significantly. Although, I have to point out immediately here that the issue of retroactivity for judges is absolutely forbidden. But not for legislators and, in a certain sense, it is therefore civil and, in our case, the difference between legislators, we must always be on this trail to distinguish whether it is civil law or criminal law, because civil law applies to the principle of party discrimination, and we know in criminal trials that it is quite something else. Then, in that sense, the issue of retroactiveness and the application of a milder law is also addressed, which is a much more favourable situation when the law is changed, so it is the protection of the rights of the defendants. So now we're not spreading this whole story, but a very interesting topic, which is what we're going to talk about, and what we're going to be more specific about, and in our rights when it comes to retroactiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112459	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal later. We'll continue at 3 p.m. and return to point 5 we skipped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112460	Proposal for a single methodological and technical rules for the production of acts by the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft rules is over. The applicant submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the draft rules. The amendments were also submitted by the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. I'd like the chairman of the board, the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112461	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112462	Amendment number 1 to Article 10 of the Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112463	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – parties to work on Article 10. The board doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112464	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112465	It is necessary to maintain the possibility that an exception should also be established in the main central part of the rules when only a specific relationship of the entity or any question is applied under certain circumstances by another regulation or exemption from the application of the rules of which it is subject to other regulation. Therefore, it would be not technically acceptable to establish, exclusively in the introductory provisions, the application or exemption from the application of another regulation only for those provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112466	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment on behalf of the Dragutin Lesar Club, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112467	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 2 to which this amendment applies gives the right of exceptions, and we believe that the exception in the rules should not be allowed to establish this relationship in one introductory place in order to facilitate understanding, reading the laws not only of the authorities and experts, but also of the citizens for which we also adopt laws. By refusing this amendment, we are introducing too much, and there are already too many exceptions in the rules, and then they lose their sense of nomotechnical rules. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112468	Thank you very much. You're asking for a vote from a respected colleague? Please vote on the amendment of the Croatian Labour Club of Representatives which the applicant does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number 2 of the same club of representatives to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112469	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112470	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives to Article 37 of the esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112471	The amendment is accepted in a modified form so that it reads: "Article 37 is amended and it reads: Foreign expressions can only be used in the Croatian language if there are no Croatian words that correspond to the meaning, meaning and content of the foreign word (foreign). Article 2 Foreign expressions (foreign) when used in the regulation are placed in brackets behind the same meaning in Croatian. Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And item 4. Use of the word: In the expression of the jargon of inadequate and unnecessary professional expressions is not allowed, and if their use is inevitable, they should be defined in the provision of meaning of the term in the introductory or basic provisions."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112472	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives, honourable representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112473	In the text of the rules and regarding the use of foreign words, it was said that they should be avoided. It's a notion that almost means nothing. We in the amendment offer a formulation is not allowed to use foreign words. The acceptance of amendments in a modified form which allows or allows the use of foreign words only if there are no adequate words in Croatian I will accept, so this amended but noting that this formulation means that the proposings of many legal regulations from the executive and legislative authorities will have to consult with the Croatian Language Institute are difficult to accept if they do not have adequate words in Croatian. And on every such example we will obviously, and I will insist on it, the arbitration of the Croatian Language Institute because a large number of words exist in the Croatian language, and they have on several occasions already offered the use of such words that cannot be accepted, vaccinated either in the Croatian Parliament or in other authorities. So we accept this amendment in a changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112474	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Four of the same club representatives, respected board presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112475	Amendment No. 4 is not accepted, with the explanation that it is necessary to approach the adoption of a new regulation only if more than half of the articles of the basic regulation are amended or complemented because there are cases where it is necessary to make more minor amendments and/or additions, regulations and there is no need to adopt a completely new regulation. An amendment of neither half, and in particular a third of one regulation does not essentially mean that the content or principles on the basis of which the regulation has been adopted are changed. As a rule, the amendments shall complement or amend parts of the provisions where a certain deficiency or error is identified in the implementation, i.e. legal gap. And what my colleague is saying is done with these other items.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112476	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Labour, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112477	No, so first I'm unhappy that the amendment wasn't accepted, and second I'm even more disappointed with the explanation. Because we intervened with these two proposals in Article 49. The first refers to the situation where one law that is in the procedure changes more than half, and we consider one third of the articles of a law and that the proposer should offer a new law in this case, not amendments and additions. And the second proposal referred to a situation where one law has been amended three times and the three amendments and additions have already changed a third of the provisions that then had to be approached by the proposed new law. I remind you that in Croatia we have laws that have 18, 19 and 24 amendments and additions. All those who wish to read in preparation for the debate, and especially in the implementation, cannot follow 24 amendments and complements and the consolidated texts are not officially published. And why do we avoid introducing the rule so much after the third amendment and the addition of the law when a third of the provisions are amended must come with a new law, that we understand it, that we know what it says. With one amendment and addition, more than one third of the regulations cannot be amended. And it's not true that only technical changes in changes and additions work, they make fundamental changes most often. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112478	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 4 Clubs of Representatives of Croatian Labourists who are not accepted by the applicant. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of the amendments. Let's go to Amendment No. Five of the same club representatives, respected board presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112479	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112480	He became an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment No. Six of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112481	Amendment No. Six is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112482	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. That's what we've done with the amendments. We have a proposal for an amendment from the Proposer who has come out of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask the Parliament to decide whether we will discuss and decide the amendments that the Proposer has made outside or beyond the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to vote on that. Who's in? Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 11 votes against the parliament have agreed to discuss and decide the amendments of the proposings. Please, let's go to Amendment No. Article 10(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112483	Namely, the Committee accepted the comments of a colleague of Lesar and nomotechnically completed the statement and this amendment was to be adopted and I suggest that you adopt it, given that the amendment of the Committee which deleted the point was accepted because it was contained in the provision of point d.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112484	I'm opening a debate. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112485	If you get the rules out and you get that, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112486	My colleague, I've opened the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 1 Proposer. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 10 votes against Amendment No. 1 Proposer and become an integral part of the final proposal for a rule. Amendment No. 2 applicants on Article 70, President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112487	These rules will be published in the National Journal and enter into force on 1 September 2015. For the first time, since these rules are adopted in the Republic of Croatia, the Proposer considers it necessary to leave one period of time after their publication so that the authorised applicants of the acts to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament can comply with these rules. And I note here, more orally, besides not having it in writing that a whole series of legal proposals are in the process, that public debates are open according to specific proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112488	I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the motions. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 2 of the motions. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes in favour, no abstentions and 11 votes against Amendment No. 2 of the motions and an integral part of the final draft rule. I am voting on the draft rules. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 91 votes for, no abstentions and 9 votes against the adoption of a single methodological-no-technical rule for the production of acts brought by the Croatian Parliament in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and well-respected colleagues, we have exhausted the vote on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112489	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Before us - The Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the European Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.840. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure bring together the first and second readings, and amendments can be proud until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of us, Deputy Foreign Minister Josko Klisovic is with us. Here's an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on a European partnership is before us. You'll remember that's not the first contract we have here for adoption. We have already concluded and you have ratified it here with Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro. So this contract reflects Croatia's partnership policy with countries in the region and our attempt to facilitate their reform processes in the context of EU accession. Through this contract we create a legal framework through which we want to make our knowledge available and identify the needs of our partners in order to get more ready to enter the negotiation process or if they are already in it to know and prepare for what is next. The cooperation within this European Partnership aims, therefore, to transfer specific knowledge and experience gained in all phases of EU accession to the Republic of Kosovo, to contribute effectively to the harmonisation of the national legislation of the Republic of Kosovo with the acquis of the EU, particularly given the priorities it has, to facilitate the adaptation of the institutional infrastructure of the state administration of the Republic of Kosovo and to raise the level of expertise of its servants in matters relevant to the European integration process, to help the Republic of Kosovo develop the quality and timely information process for the public on the European integration process. The Kosovo side, meanwhile, implemented the envisaged internal legal procedure and ratified this contract, which was reported in the Croatian Parliament today on 2 June this year by an appropriate diplomatic note. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the European Partnership in an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112491	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the National Minorities Club Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112492	Today I will highlight a few things about the subject I am unfortunately too familiar with at the time of my term of office both officially and personally. During my term, I visited the Parliament of the Republic of Kosovo once and visited the mayor of Kosovo Mitrovica on several occasions, and I also had the opportunity to visit the Embassy of the Republic of Kosovo in Zagreb on several occasions. The reason is that I was born in Kosovo in Kosovo Mitrovica and I also know the Albanian language and I feel free to say that I am with what I am about to speak very well. First of all, I welcome the good cooperation that our two friendly countries have and I welcome the existence of a goodwill for the Republic of Croatia through its experience to help Kosovo reach European standards as soon as possible and become part of the EU today. However, Kosovo will when... and I think that cooperation based on this contract that every form of other cooperation should be critical in one positive way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, I will also present some facts that I find problematic in relation to today's situation, of course, with the hope that this will be accepted and resolved as soon as possible. In fact, although the Republic of Kosovo has an ambitious approach to its European path and has passed a number of laws that meet European standards, the situation on the ground is somewhat different, and the situation with refugees is particularly problematic and their return to the Republic of Kosovo. The Republic of Croatia has a significant experience in dealing with these issues and a number of our institutions believe it can help the Republic of Kosovo in a good way and raise the issue of returning to Kosovo of its national minorities. Although it has been a long time since the Kosovo war conflicts, there are still a large number of people who have been internally displaced to stay in neighbouring but also Western European countries and have no real opportunity to return to their homes. In most cases, they also want to return, given that they have not resolved the issues of refugee existence or have resolved their status, and on the other hand they do not have the opportunity to return to their hearths that are either destroyed or simply feared, since we still cannot talk about a safe environment. First of all, I want to look back on the status of Roma from Kosovo. A certain number of Roma from Kosovo also reside in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Although the exact number cannot be determined by the official data of the MUP, some of them have submitted a request for Croatian citizenship. The number of these people in the Republic of Croatia is certainly not negligible, although in the rule of Roma from Kosovo, they are either in countries with which Kosovo borders or in those Western European countries where they have no status resolved. A particular problem is the proof of ownership, residence and similar to that of the Roma population, which has become the victim of the Serb-Albanian conflict in the area and, apparently, has not come across the sympathy of any of the two warring forces. Again, as it was throughout history, the Roma people did not wage war, either directly or indirectly guilty of this conflict. The conflict, however, almost destroyed the Roma community in that area, which I must say, was quite situational and organized. Maybe that's why it's so damaged. The Republic of Croatia has an invaluable experience in the peaceful reintegration of its premises, I am thinking first and foremost of the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunje but also generally of working with refugees who in our country at some point were almost a million. Some may find this issue irrelevant or unrelated, but the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee of stability and peace in Southeast Europe as a member of the EU and as a friendly country must promote its own values to help our friends who have expressed their readiness to implement the necessary reforms that would contribute to their European path. I therefore welcome the proposal for this law, but note that it is not sufficiently devoted to the burning problem I mentioned, the issue of the return of the refugees of Roma and members of other peoples to the territory of the Republic of Kosovo. Respect for human and civil rights as well as European values assumes the creation of living conditions in which all citizens of the Republic of Kosovo would feel comfortable and secure. I therefore call on all stakeholders, especially European integration experts, and all institutions that will participate in the implementation of this law, to specifically address the issue I have raised earlier. I have in some way already raised this issue by initiating a round table on which I plan to invite both our experts and representatives of important institutions and organisations but also the refugees themselves who would run this story in one positive direction. In this I came across the approval of the Ambassador of Kosovo, Mrs. Sheriff, who is well aware of the problem. At our recent meeting of 26th May in the Croatian Parliament, but before, I also got her promise to act within the framework of her opportunities, above all as the mediator of the organisation of such a round situation, i.e. the situation and the resolution of Roma's return to Kosovo and the status of refugees Roma from Kosovo currently staying in the Republic of Croatia and in other countries of the region and the EU. I think the issue mentioned should also be presented to the general public because it is one of the important problems in our immediate neighborhood that is not spoken of and very little is known. Compared to this issue, there are unacceptable and devastating statistics that say that the Roma community in Kosovo, which is speculated in the media that up to 40,000 people have no living conditions, and is exposed to constant threats by the majority population and is forced to sell their property in search of a better future. There have also been several cases of Roma being expelled from Kosovo from Western European countries back to Kosovo, and they have been destroyed there, and they have been prevented from returning. Furthermore, thousands are in the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro and face poverty and social exclusion. They are thus located in a gray zone and without Kosovo but without the citizenship of the state in which they are located. In those countries, it is difficult or in no way to obtain asylum status so that the problem cannot be ignored. Thousands of Kosovo Roma live in despair, and the institutions of the Republic of Kosovo do not solve the problem to a sufficient extent even though they are aware that it exists. During the Kosovo conflict, the Albanian majority there saw Roma as allies in the Serbian regime, although of course it was not true. As Serbian authorities retreated from Kosovo, Roma fear revenge and revenge even though such accusations are unfounded and have their roots in the ordinary discrimination of minorities. Nearly 5% of the population in Kosovo does not belong to either the Albanian or the Serb communities. Their problems and constant abandonment of Kosovo have been in shadow for decades compared to Serbs and Albanians. 2/3 of the Roma communities left Kosovo during the conflict, and Roma community members warn that the third and those Roma who remained and left Kosovo last year, and that the unemployment rate in this community is 98%. This unemployment is particularly problematic in view of the fact that their law, if I am not mistaken, requires 10% of minority people to be employed in public institutions. The bad situation and the attitude towards the Roma in Kosovo have been noticed by our other partners. So, for example, seven years ago, the president of the Human Rights Committee of the German Parliament warned about this, and I quote: We were particularly affected by the reluctance of Albanians and Serbs towards the Roma. This is also demonstrated in the fact that the restoration of Roma houses takes place much slower than those of the Albanian majority or Serbs. I was convinced of that personally when I was in Kosovo and in talks with my Roma from Kosovo. I note that more than a third of the Roma in Kosovo cannot read or write, and I know that was not the case until the 1990s when the Roma community in Kosovo was in a much better position than today. Recently, Kosovo's top defence attorney pointed out that in Kosovo the most vulnerable Roma as well as other minority communities are. So the problems are also aware of the authorities in Kosovo. Although the Roma Integration Strategy was adopted in Kosovo in 2009, no significant change has taken place today compared to their unfavourable position. And while we Roma in the Republic of Croatia very well marked the World Day of Roma here in the Croatian Parliament with the presence of the government, representatives and ladies of the President of the Republic we could see a different picture in the Government of the Republic of Kosovo. In fact, members of the Roma community from Kosovo at a conference on the World Day of Roma in the government of Kosovo expressed dissatisfaction with their position and called on Kosovo authorities to make greater efforts so that they too could contribute to the development of the state. They have thus shown that contrary to the opinion of the majority population on them, as some kind of destructive factor, they still have other ambitions when we talk about progress and the development of the Republic of Kosovo. I believe the laws and measures that regulate the situation of Roma in Kosovo are unfortunately either very little injured. I also see here the possibility that the Republic of Croatia should make its contribution through some kind of consultation and advice which can very easily fit into this agreement in which we are discussing today and which, as surely as so far co-operation with Kosovo, will have a good epilogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112493	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, here is a bill of law that we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club will, of course, support. It is on the trail of the same laws we have already passed, you have already noted, in the case of Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro. And certainly one positive step is not only in bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo but also one significant step in stabilising relations in our region of Southeast Europe. In this respect, we welcome the adoption of this proposal, i.e. the Law confirming the treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the European Partnership, because this is of paramount importance first and foremost for the Republic of Kosovo. I would even say that this contract is kind of one-sided because it is exclusively about the assistance of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Kosovo. So he goes with the intention to transfer our knowledge, everything we can towards the Republic of Kosovo in order to become, meet the requirements and become a member of the European Union as soon as possible. Why does it matter? Because on the other hand, we have obviously a partner who wants to go that way and who wants to accept our help on that trip. This assistance will ultimately include solving the problems my predecessor, counterpart Kajtazi spoke of because these standards will then have to be applied to everything and to national minorities in the Republic of Kosovo. Kosovo is still struggling with the fact that one part of the state has not recognised it as an independent, independent state, Croatia has done so. But also unfortunately there are still some institutions such as the national media that have a concession and you can still see it, I saw it about a month ago when it came to the situation in Macedonia, then there was a map of that part of Southeast Europe where Kosovo was drawn with thin lines and still within Serbia. So we still have some media that are either not well informed, or maybe they're running their own policy rather than the state policy of the Republic of Croatia, so they obviously don't show the situation as they really are. I hope that this will be corrected, of course this has no impact on this Treaty on the European Partnership, but perhaps sufficiently indicative of how to approach this very serious problem that Kosovo has. And of course, the people of Kosovo are sensitive to such an approach and expect those countries that have recognised the Republic of Kosovo as an independent state to do so and their institutions to the Republic of Kosovo. I think that as regards the transfer of knowledge there can indeed be a lot of help, however, in one respect, it seems to me that this government currently has a hard time helping the Republic of Kosovo and this is a question of using financial assistance, in their case the instruments available to them, which are of course not the European Union funds, which are now available to Croatia, but these experiences are obviously not the most positive of the Republic of Croatia. We had the latest statistical reports according to which the Republic of Croatia has made more payments to the European budget since its accession to the European Union from 1 July 2013 to the end of 2014. So that's exactly where we can't boast of some excessive knowledge, and even less with the excessive efficiency of withdrawing those funds. But here we want to believe that these positive experiences that we have in other parts of this Treaty, as regards the development of institutions, are primarily about training those people who will work on the jobs of bringing Kosovo closer to the European Union in terms of transferring the necessary knowledge and in terms of preparing them to carry out these processes in the best possible way, in an effective way so as not to be wrong where we have sinned. That's where I believe we'll be able to help them significantly. But I said already here it's about a unilateral contract. On the other hand, I think it is important that this component of stability and peace in a region where Croatia should play a significant role, and in that part I look at this contract really with special attention because I think this is one way to actually strengthen our role in terms of peace and stability in the region. You saw what was going on in Macedonia a few days ago, you saw that the situation had not yet even experienced a real break-up or the situation essentially calmed down completely. Kosovo is bordering Macedonia, as well as Serbia, and, of course, it is necessary to pay more attention to the processes that are taking place and try to influence the peaceful solution of all possible potential conflicts and the peaceful solution of the current situation. The fact that Croatian forces are also participating in a mission in Kosovo further strengthens the Croatian position on foreign policy and relations with the region and, of course, it is important that the participation of Croatian forces that carry out their tasks professionally as well as all other missions outside the Republic of Croatia and we can today express their support and gratitude for what they do on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and in favour of the countries where their missions are located, so this mission in Kosovo is extremely important. And of course it has been assessed by the International Community that Croatia meets its obligations in the best possible way. Here we have come to a stage where Croatia is a provider of international assistance and a stability factor in this sense I say once again, we will most strongly support this agreement on the European partnership or contract and I expect it to be actually one of the first steps that will further strengthen our bilateral relations that are not exactly at some envious level, although there are many exchanges and a lot at this parliamentary level and at other levels, but I would say that the potentials are still not far from how we would like them to be used. And in this sense, I say, I believe that this assistance will also mean the strengthening of European tendencies and the strengthening of all those forces in Kosovo who really want the European path to the Republic of Kosovo, and we want it, because without the entry of all the SEE countries into the European Union, it is difficult to become the 'long-term stability of our region, and I think that Croatia is in the interest of stability in the region in order to develop the most normal way, so that we can have the most normal partnership. I will briefly just look back at the fact that both BiH and Serbia and other countries that are in our environment are also expressing their claim and desire to achieve membership in the European Union, which is good, absolutely good for all of them, and it will be good for Croatia if they become part of the European Union. But we see that there is a lot of intertwining of global interests, so I'm just going to start a topic about NATO membership. You know that Croatia first entered the NATO alliance and then entered the European Union. Although many say that it is not a condition of entry into the European Union, today it is more than clear that these two institutional frameworks share the same values and, of course, we support all those who wish to participate in the NATO Alliance and who want to go the European way at the same time. But we are concerned by those who, at the same time with the European way, leave the possibility of cooperation with other global forces such as Russia, which today is an anecdotal of the neighbouring country, I am talking about Ukraine, I am talking about Crimea, and I am fighting an open war de facto with a clear presence in Ukraine. And then of course we need to be concerned that one of these countries like Serbia has close cooperation with Russia which clearly shows its intentions towards its neighbours. Let's not forget Georgia, what happened to the two provinces in Georgia that were also part of the instruments and policies, the foreign policy of the Russian Federation. Not to mention what is currently happening in the Baltic countries. Therefore, I think that all states in our environment will need to be clearly defined on this matter. Of course, it is their first and foremost right to which they will go and what values they will represent. But as our first neighbors, we need to be very careful about what's going on around us and in the light and our borders. And in that sense, here I say we truly express our support for this treaty, which I hope will also result in membership in the finality of Kosovo to the European Union, as well as all other countries surrounding us, we want them truly successful on that path. We can be of great help to them, and we will be theirs regardless of which government was in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is our permanent commitment to help them on this path to meet all the standards on their own and to meet all the preconditions to really become part of a European family where we wish them a lot of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112495	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112496	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of our Parliament, dear deputy minister, colleague and colleague. The proposed laws and the contract signed are not only a list of good wishes in order to further develop good relations between our two countries but concrete assistance in the course of the accession of the Republic of Kosovo to the EU. And in this, our country really has what to say, it has great experience, it has the specific knowledge that we have gained in the process of European integration, that is, in all phases of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, a great deal of experience, we have what to say, we know how to help, we want to help, and we already do a lot of it. The Council for Transition Processes, i.e. the Centre for Excellence of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which carries out activities related to the sharing of knowledge and experience acquired during the process of EU accession negotiations, relying on experts who participated in the process. Croatia's success in the EU accession process is a positive example and an incentive for countries in Southeast Europe, and demonstrates that the European perspective is feasible for all countries willing to implement the necessary reforms and adjustments in the EU accession process and to adapt to EU criteria. The Centre of Excellence's activities focus on the specific needs of transition countries, with particular respect for the partner country's development status and, of course, its degree of EU integration. The co-operation of the Centre of Excellence with Kosovo began in 2013, and focused on specific areas important in the context of the process of adopting a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As far as our countries' relations are concerned, counterpart Matusic mentioned it, Croatia recognised Kosovo's independence among the first. We co-operate continuously on a whole series of topics. Total bilateral relations are good, friendly and constantly rising. Croatia strongly supports the integrity and indivisibility of Kosovo's territory as well as the country's Euro-Atlantic orientation, and encourages regional co-operation. Areas where relations can be strengthened are the economy, i.e. trade, transport and energy connections, as well as the greater presence of companies in construction and equipment projects. The exchange of visits at the highest level is relatively intense, and one of the latest specifically discussed the Croatian national minority in Kosovo. She's small and in a very difficult situation. There are 300 Croats living in Janjevo, while 56 and their position in the Yearbook, the situation of Croats in Kosovo needs to be treated less and less as a minority and more as a humanitarian issue. However, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kosovo and Foreign Minister Hashim Thaci promised recently during an official visit to the Republic of Croatia that the Government of the Republic of Kosovo would take appropriate measures to improve the conditions of the Croats in Kosovo, and that the Croatian minority would be included in the basic legal act of the Republic of Kosovo when amending the Constitution. Today, with the bill of law, we confirm an act between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on a European partnership aimed at providing and facilitating the course of accession of the Republic of Kosovo to the EU, in which we wish them much success. And this will also be a success for Croatia, it will be a success for the region, it will be a success for all of Europe. It will be good and good and is for stability in Southeast Europe. This is also good for cooperation and good relations between the countries and the HNS club will, of course, support the bill that allows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112497	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112498	Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the European Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 840. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 97 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against, the law P.Z. was passed. No. In 840, the government of the Republic of Croatia proposed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112499	We continue with - Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 35. Pension Insurance Act ("National Journal", No. 157/13) The proposed decision was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. You took the material to the benches. On behalf of the proposing president of the Committee, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I will read the report on the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 35. The Pension Insurance Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of Representatives by the Act of 16 March 2015. At its 117th session held on 20 May 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 35. Retirement Act NN No. 175/13; 141/14 and 33/15. which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the HSU. The Committee on Legislatives has examined the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 16 April 2015, which is estimated to be the provision of Article 35. The Pension Insurance Act is clear and precise and there is no need for its credible interpretation. No opinion has been delivered to the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Labour Authority. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously established that the proposal for a credible interpretation was not established because it is essentially proposed to delete paragraph 2 in Article 35 of that Law and is therefore proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the non-verified interpretation of Article 35. Pension Insurance Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are reported by the Croatian Parliament on its position and submitted this proposal for not to give a credible interpretation. Let me read that proposal to you now. "No credible interpretation of Article 35 is given. Retirement Act NN No. 157/13.; 1571/14. and 33/15." Reason: "The applicant of the proposal for a credible interpretation is essentially proposed to be in Article 35. The Retirement Insurance Act shall delete the provision of paragraph 2 which constitutes an amendment to that law, which shall not be done by any means or by a credible interpretation. Otherwise, the solution contained in that provision is one of the solutions identified by the Croatian Parliament in the process of establishing a pension system by adopting a Pension Insurance Act which cannot be changed by credible interpretation." Maybe here's just another note, just by amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112501	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Leftists Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club, I can say that I agree with the board's opinion that it is impossible to delete Article 2 and thus give an interpretation. And I don't think the board could have concluded otherwise. But I also agree with the promoter that injustice has been done and there is no doubt that whoever works 65 years and is 44 years of employment has been suspended, unjustly suspended from the one who has achieved 60 years of life, 41 years of internships and is then rewarded if he has continued to work until 65 years. And it's not even, it's a simple mistake in law. An error in a law that was not meant to be corrected by interpretation but by repairing the law. And I think the solution really has to be to fix the law because it's unacceptable that the citizens with me would tell us the same job experience some have a reward of up to 9% increased pension, and the other, because he's done and the full pension is gone. As rare as these are, I think we should change that. But of course, now the question is what does the government think? And I'd say the government thinks the same thing even though it's a little different in its reasoning because the government says it's okay to reward long-term workers and that this longer working time means his larger contribution to retirement. Which I wouldn't exactly agree with with that interpretation. Because if they've both worked 44 years, they've equally put into retirement. So the one who turned 65 and the one who turned 60 plus four. And basically where's the law's mistake? In fact, the mistake of the law is that we value years of age, not years of work. And we'd have to reward years of work. So all those who work for more than 41 years, which is somewhere that final limit that someone must be 60 years old and 41 years old, means everything over 41 years should be rewarded. And we actually had to think differently about changing this law. Well, maybe it's best that we propose that we amend and supplement the law itself and essentially change that we reward 0.5% not year of life but year of internship over 41 years. And then we're going to have an even relationship with the one at 60 and the one at 65 or the other, the one at 64, 11 months and 29 days. And that's when we solved the problem. But that's no longer the subject of interpretation, it's the subject of amending and supplementing and correcting the law that we really give citizens equal relations, that on the basis of their work they will be equally rewarded. And that means all those who make 2, 3, 4 years over 41 have the right to 0.5% per month of work, not life. And that's when we corrected the whole injustice we've established here. So it's not Article 33 and 35 that's the problem, it's article 85 of the same law that basically rewards years of life and not years of internship. Therefore, it is hardly possible to dispute the opinion of the Committee that it is indeed based on the fact that the request is set to amend the law rather than interpretation, and in essence we do not need to touch articles 35 and 33, rather than Article 85 and 0.5 per month on building for work and not years of life, and I think that this will correct the injustice and we will find a solution. Therefore, in my opinion, we will accept the Committee's proposal if we can't do otherwise and the suggestion for the Proposer to go with the amendment of Article 85 of the same law and I believe that it will also receive support from the Government itself, because the Government has made it very clear in its explanation that it is necessary to reward the one who pays longer. So I'm saying all those who over 41 years of pay should be rewarded equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112503	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Gold shower, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112504	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Linic, I agree with you that what you said that the promoter should practically refer to the amendment of the law. I also agree that with a rule like this, there is one injustice but something that you haven't said, which is that people can choose whether to retire on one basis or another. But the greatest injustice that was done was made when this law was passed in such a way that those who had previously had over 41 and 44 years of retirement went to early retirement, they were retired and their pension was permanently reduced. When this law was passed, we proposed that the amendment be made to the team, there are about 10,000 pensioners who are permanently damaged and lost, that they be recalculated on the day of the law's entry into force no retroactive reverse to be paid for by some backlogs, only to be equally wronged in all rights. Well, the proposer didn't accept it. But the worst part is that the pensioner's union was on that amendment restrained by what I think it is, and these people's greatest injustice was brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112505	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112506	I agree with my colleague that pensioners are those who have very small pensions and a permanent problem in Croatia and those who manage the budget will be able to resolve pensions, and at the same time the biggest deficit in the Croatian budget is in the pension system 17.5 billion a year or almost 4% of GDP is in our pension system. But I believe that justice and assistance to people and citizens of Croatia are the most important. I would also agree with you that your amendment should be accepted independently of the lack of money because it is a small number of people involved, and let's be honest with the new law that has been passed to them would benefit. And I think it should have been not retroactive but issued new solutions under the new law. Unfortunately, the amendment has not passed, but it can always be repeated, so I guess justice will be, and that's my suggestion to do it again with one of the additions to the existing law, so we'll really solve these ways. When we talk about choosing or not to choose, we always need to know that people know and choose wrong but we need to be the ones who have a fair system. I don't think rewarding for years of life is a fair system. If the pension system rewards the work. And we need to understand that rewarding work is important. And so by amending Article 85o which we will have plus 0.5 per month for work over 41 years is equal and I would say justly. And that's why it's a better solution. Well, I agree with you, too, that it would be a good idea to re-propose this supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112507	Thank you. Next up for a debate on behalf of the club of independent Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So before I explain the reasons for our proposal from the HSU Club to give a credible interpretation of Article 35. I have to mention two definitions of plan 21 from pension insurance, which was the result of the HSU initiative. The first definition was that we would more value long-term insurance or longer-term internship. And secondly, depending on that, we're going to be in favour of rewarding a longer full-time student who's been designated as 41 years. No matter how often we hear in this assembly that plan 21 is dead or I don't have it anymore, I have to realize that in the first three years of this term, the plan 21 is realized by 75%. The first definition of the evaluation of a long-term internship was realised in the new article 35, which says "The right to an age pension for a long-term insurance company has an insurance company when it turns 60 and 41 years of employment." The second definition of rewarding a long-term internship was realised in Article 85(4), where the starting factor increased by 0.15% for each month after 60 years of life. The Institute of Age Pensions, subject to 60-41, is an excellent solution for those who came into the world of work when they were 17 or 18, and if they wanted to retire at 65 years of age, they would have to do 47 or 48 years of internships, which is impossible. For the purposes of this Article, Article 85(4) shall, in an appropriate manner, be worth longer work and long-term payment of contributions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Retirement Act is the second paragraph of Article 35, because there are now two types of retirement pensions in the Pension Insurance Act, regularly under Article 33, 65 years of life and 15 years of training and retirement pension for long-term insurance workers with 60 years of life and a minimum age of 41. Paragraph 2 of Article 35 states that a worker goes to regular retirement when he turns 65 and can have 41, 42 or more years of internships. It is logical for me that every old-age employee under Article 35 should go for long-term insurance, one who has a minimum pension of 41 years of internship and a minimum of 60 years of life. I fully agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the current provision is Article 35. The Retirement Law is clear and precise and is thus applied by the HZMO. I also agree with the reasoning of the Legislative Committee which cannot give a credible interpretation because it cannot be deleted in Article 35(2). Since we have, in practice, made a mistake in the footsteps of this request, we are left to propose, in the ordinary parliamentary procedure, an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act or the erasure of paragraph 2 in Article 35, that in the event of acceptance of such an amendment, HZMO will treat such retirement in accordance with Articles 33 and 35. Finally, I have to explain why I cannot agree with the current application of the law or the consequences for pensioners, and they are very illogical. To retire from 64 years and 11 months and 29 days and, of course, from 41 years of age, the internship goes into retirement under Article 35 and therefore gets a bonus of up to 9%, and to retire from 65 to 65th birthday from the same 41 years of internship to a regular retirement pension under Article 33 and get a zero kuna bonus. Finally, I must refer to the conclusion on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where it is said that discrimination cannot be talked about because our proposal for interpretation and the request for interpretation referred to in Article 35 does not mention discrimination anywhere. It is good to see the consequences, applications and excellent effects of the new Institute of Age Retirement for the long-term internship. From 1.1.2014 to 31 March of this year, we had a pension of 6,325 pensioners with an average pension of 3,500 thousand and with an average internship of 42 years and 10 months. All this says that this institute has done a lot of good and that it has practically valued that longer internship. With these remarks, and with what we have said that we are likely to try to amend the law what we were supposed to do at the first moment, not by interpreting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112509	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112510	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course we will respect the opinion of the Legislative Committee even though we should find new ways to address this problem. The problem may seem more bizarre than serious, but the fact is that not only do women who enter the world early in the work but also men who enter the world with 15 years of work, even if they are in the army 2, 3 years old, they can do as many as 52 years of work, and that is not exactly insignificant. But look at the current legal provisions after 41 years of internship and 60 years of life for every year to 65 they receive 0.15% increase per month and this can be limited to 10 to 12% but this should be extended. What if he works until after 65? Then it's gone, then it's back to square one. So the ball goes back to the beginning again, and after 65, it starts again at 0.15 per month to increase positive stimulation for as long as it stays in the world of work, because in retirement insurance it is the most important, be careful that we talk about the first degree of generational solidarity on pension insurance, and in insurance comes out what is obtained must be covered by inputs, so years of payment of contributions and the amount of payment of contributions. Now, we also know in the current situation if we have well-informed citizens that there will be no major damage because if all officials do right they will warn them that before 65 they will get more if they go a month before 65th in retirement all these long-term users, or if they wait 65th and 1 day to get 9% less. However, in order for us to have such a quality public administration, we have to come up with those preconditions that we discussed here last night about the public administration development strategy by 2020, and that is what we must recognize as carrots on a long stick. And we can't do legal solutions and rely on faith that all public officials will provide information that will go in favor of citizens what they should do in their profession, but still it's about human relations where someone can be envious of someone else, where they can be jealous, where they can forget, where they can do something out of trouble, and we have a man who's damaged. At this point, we have the one and only privilege that those people at 65 have, who retire to a full-age retirement of over 65 years. So if they keep working and they can have less than 41 years of internship they'll get 0.15 per month. And second, a really new privilege or a new quality right is that such people can, therefore, work at 66 at 37 years of training, they've made a pension, they don't have to freeze and can continue to work if there's work for their skills and skills up to 4 hours a day. We have experience in other countries, e.g. Bulgarians let all users, both premature and disabled, so old-age pensions, if there are places on the labour market to do so without restrictions, without 4 hours provided they pay taxes and contribute. So that pensioner if he works he's the best payers and taxes and contributions. And of course if the contributions create a new right to correct his pension. But for us as we progress slowly and slowly change our pension system, these were quality steps in the adoption of this law, and we think that it is our job to continue to try to improve it. Our activity was not targeted or I don't know, it wasn't in any way destructive, as our political action was never destructive, but it was always aimed at improving the rights of the pensioners but in a way that it would be, that there would be no discrimination, but that there would be reciprocity but also a dose of equality. Of course, look, we're talking today about something that we introduced into the pension system after 14 years of age, since 1999, the number of years of internships has meant nothing. You could have, I had a lady who retired at 54 years of age. You could have had no idea how many years of internship if you had less than 65 years of male or 60-year-old women you were penalized and that for life. And yesterday I hear from the World Bank, from their experts that people should be demoted for early retirement. Wherever you're going to demote him more if there's not enough internships, for five years before he retires, he's losing 20.4% of his pension for life. Where are you going to demote him more? Well, I don't know who doesn't see past the healthy eyes in this country that people don't choose to go to early retirement because they get paid, because they have an extra business but because they have to because companies fail, because they're chiced, because they can't stand the pressures at work anymore because they're asked for as much work as possible for as little money. I don't understand all these experts where they live, in which country they live to say they should discourage people from going to early retirement. Well, my people don't volunteer to use one institute without permanently losing 20.4% for life. Not if his widow remains behind him, if it's a man's pension, it counts on her after the basis for a family pension. It's a permanent loss for generations. And we are under this law that is subject to all criticism, I accept and what Mr. Linic and Mr. Tušak said, it is not ideal, it could be more, it depends on the finances, but the fact that we have to admit that we have two quality new things introduced inside. That the years of employment, the years of payment of contributions again after 14 years have been given a certain value in the pension system, i.e. in the pension insurance system of Croatia and I will repeat, pension insurance, pension insurance, that everyone realizes that this is not the social giving of the state to people, that this is something that has been earned, which has been created for years, it has been created for decades and no one has the right to earn it. So the quality newspaper in this law is that we've revalued the work experience but, of course, we've allowed the one who retired once into the deserved retirement to be able and to work without having to freeze retirement. So we introduced a new principle once a pensioner, for the rest of his life a pensioner. Whether this can be extended as I said, such as the experiences of other countries should be discussed. The Ministry of Finance is always invited to talk, not just the Ministry of Labour, about these things, because they first see the entrance, the exit. I could still have a lot of rights installed in my pension system on the principle of intergenerational solidarity. And if our unions wanted to think that tomorrow they'd be retired, too, and that you're what they're making now while they're working, they'd be waiting for them when they retire. Do you know why Slovenian pensioners receive a regress? So because workers pay a contribution on their regress, do not pay taxes as well as in Croatia, it is untaxable expenses but pay contributions. So the workers have prepared the ground so that when they retire, they have the same right when they're retired, that when they're retired, they have the same right as the workers. So they have the right to one dimension of life. So we have as many examples as we want, we know that. I know we're limited to financial opportunities, but it's not all about financial opportunities. A lot of it, a lot of problems need to be solved through thinking and planning the future, how we want to have a future tomorrow when we're retired and not waiting and waiting for the pot to be full or empty. He'll never be full, he'll always be a little in the budget and there'll never be money to tell the pensioners we love you and we'll give. According to our creation, we will have this, and therefore I will keep saying that in the pension system, the pension insurance system needs to value what is paid through contributions and years of course, while respecting the principle of solidarity and mutuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112511	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. So much for today. Tomorrow we will begin the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2014. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-11-0.u112512	This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Pension Insurance Act, National No. 157/2013. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 vote against, a decision on not to give a credible interpretation of Article 35 has been taken. Pension Insurance Act, National No. 157/2013, 151/14. and 33/15, in the text proposed by the applicant.
