ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117404	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am asking for a break because of the scandal that has been going through the media since yesterday, which points to possible abuses of service, very serious abuses of services that have serious repercusions to this Assembly, potential and parliamentary democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117405	Okay. A colleague, Vuksic Branko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117406	Same reason I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117407	A colleague Cain Damir, too? Col. Igor Dragovan's representative. No more demands. Let's take a break first. At 9.45 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I would like to ask the Honorable Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to present the current topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117409	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. As I said in my request for a break, it is a scandal that has not been reported more recently in our political practice. Documents have surfaced showing that one member of this House has been processed, Mr Linic specifically, although it has been claimed not to have. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. It specifically states that after Mr. Linic called Prime Minister Milanovic for nepotism, a whole series of treatments, monitorings, etc. took place, which he complained about and asked to be examined. What concerns is that the parliamentary committee, the committee of this High House, carried out the procedure but with the following documents that have now appeared in the procedure, lied and deceived the Parliamentary Committee, so the Croatian Parliament. What position, colleagues and colleagues, has the Croatian Parliament been appointed as the Supreme Representative Body of Croatian citizens if they can be lied to and deceived without any consequences? The question, of course, is whether it is the only such affair, whether there are similar ones that are hidden and that will sooner or later come out into public light. How is it possible to conduct a follow-up of a political alleged investigation against the former minister and members of his family on the basis of practically non-existent reasons why it is admitted that it is unverified information, etc., etc.? It is a very serious threat to parliamentary democracy. And everyone sitting here must be aware of that. Lying, deluding a conscious parliament is something that is probably the most serious that can happen in parliamentary democracy. The prime minister denied it, we remember, personally, waving the SOA documents and claiming that such things did not happen in Croatia. So a very serious question arises who can sabotage parliamentary oversight in this country, who in parliamentary democracy can lie to the Parliament and claim that the things that exist now are unfounded and untrue documents. Regardless, colleagues and colleagues, as far as we are concerned about 10 days of sitting here, it is completely irrelevant that the last day of this Assembly's session or that the first day of the next Assembly is for us all, not just those of the opposition, but because of their credibility and those of the ruling coalition must raise their voice against it and seek sanctions because it is unacceptable. Unacceptable in a serious parliamentary democracy. We are looking for the seriousness of the situation for Prime Minister Milanovic to come here and explain clearly to you all what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117410	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Leftist Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117411	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Just before my colleague Reiner said they lied to the Parliament. The most important thing is that the Parliament does not respect itself as an institution that we have talked about many times here for this speaker. In 2006, a high-ranking police officer came to me and said I was tapped and there were transcripts of conversations between Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt and my little things. I asked because I'm the subject of processing, said no, you're the victim of an accident, listening to Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. It was a deeper folder of those transcripts of phone conversations. I asked if it was official or if she was being followed, no, it was off the record. So the underworld works all the time, intelligence underground does its job. What we're talking about today is a matter of intelligence underground. There's no telling who he's setting up for or why. Even the mob respects some legality, even the Mafia has some codes, and that code doesn't touch my family. This is where they go so far as to touch their families, to be warned, they'll put your son's cocaine in the trunk and you'll get it out later. What's happening is terrifying, but it happens before every election. Before each election, however, they extract some uncleanness, but it returns as a boomerang to those who have done so. I don't know who did it, which is why it appeared in the media, but it didn't happen to show up before the election. The MPs should respond, we should return, we may not even have a chance to return but those who will come to this Parliament. They give you bread, but they take away your dignity, your soul, your personality, your human integrity, just so they can raise their hands and they can do whatever they want across the street Mark's square, and this turns into a voting machine, and that's the saddest thing. Unfortunately, I have testified as parliamentary representative for the defeat of the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament does not decide. It's decided by a small group of people, and most of them, not this one, each of them raises their hands. Remember the speech of the other Prime Ministers behind this pay phone. They always gave lessons, they always gave orders, and it was always their last. So is this. I appeal to the parties, to the MPs, to the dignity of the election campaign. I appeal that you do not touch your families, I appeal that you do not descend below the level of the mafia because this is a sad moment, and this House will be remembered, this assembly of Parliament really like many colleagues said that are much longer here than I am, as one of the worst, and not bad because bad people are sitting in it, which there are no smart people than because they are humble, which bends their heads just to keep the chair. Well, that grade someone mentioned yesterday or the day before, something's going to be even lower, even lower. What's going on with the bribing of parliamentary deputies, with the charges, with the intrusions of the family, is happening in pre-election campaigns, and I need to tell one truth, and I'm going to have to tell her, I can't stand it. Politics is a brothel when politicians are prostitutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117412	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117413	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There is no longer any dilemma, now we all know that Mr. Linic was under investigation. I say that wouldn't be a problem, under quotes that wouldn't be a problem. Why wouldn't Mr. Linic be under investigation, one of you or me? The problem is if the police have been misleading this Parliament and the problem is if the police or if the services planted something on Linic. If someone falsely testified, if I falsely testify to you or the service, mainly here in the Parliament, it can't end without a shift. What is the burden on Mr. Linic? It means that somewhere in America, he deposited some millions of euros or possession of a villa in Switzerland. Now I asked him well Slavko you have this villa in Switzerland, said me and my wife asking. I say we investigate this, so we can talk about it properly, so we need another extraordinary session. We could use another extraordinary session about the work of the service, the MUP, the PNUSKOK, and that's where we can go or we can reach out to the DORH that works or doesn't work, and if it works then it works remotely. The board received information that there was no saying that Mr. Linic was being followed. Clearly, it is good that this information has been leaked to the public that we are talking about today. It is also necessary to see who is dealing with this information within the service and why the security system of the Republic of Croatia is more destructive than Swiss cheese. The main problem is the surveillance of the security apparatus in the Republic of Croatia. All charges against Slavko Linic proved empty with a gun and now the empty rifle could fire in whoever was holding it. In this country, it's the easiest way to detronize someone by serving under quotes. Look at the Sanader case, I'm the last one to amnesty him, you all know what I was saying. His judgments are going down like they're on the current tape. Look at the Bandic case. No one's going to convince me that detention wasn't motivated by presidential elections. Look at Fimi Media, there that, look at the pandas in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, there's nothing going on because someone put under their DORH boss's robe. Look at the real estate cases. Here in Zagreb, something is being replaced, where the state is turning private for the equivalent of one or without a single kuna or less than one kuna. Nothing's going on. What are the criteria? What are these principles? Why doesn't it open? Let's say the Hypo Bank case. Why don't we open the Raiffeisen savings case? The government, the Parliament must ask or we must ask that all this be cleared up. The M.O.P. needs to be cleaned up. The services simply need to be controlled. Who's controlling them? Are the services independent of the government? How's that? That would be good if they were professional, but surveillance over them must be. They can't do what they want. They must not be included in this pre-election time in the war of political blocs. I'm going to scream again here, let the DORH once again open the Martine Duras case from Pula. And the parliament must cry out about this case so that parliamentism in Croatia does not roar under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117414	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117415	Dear counterpart Reiner, the Parliament was not safely placed in a position like the Croatian Parliament was put in position in 2003 when colleagues from your club walked along these halls holding a piece of wire and claiming that a listening device was placed in the HDZ club and that it was done by Racan's government. It was pre-election time in 2003. Some will remember, some won't. I believe he will remember Croatian citizens, but it was a story. Now there's no socket, there's something else. But the fact is also due to the Croatian public it should be reiterated that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security according to the presentation of counterpart Slavko Linic both with oral and written supervision according to the law. And the conclusions made by the board point out and determine that no action has been taken against counterpart Slavko Linic. Those were the conclusions. Therefore, what I think is also important to say and when I was in opposition, I was very concerned about whether the services were, and this is very easy to say for political purposes because I thought it was one of the most sensitive parts of Croatian national security, that people who work there no matter how they came to be put into a situation where citizens don't trust them, and they should trust them. Me and today as I had and before I trust people who do this work, and the system that we've all built here in Parliament is, there's control with which most of it can be determined. It is not perfect, it is not perfect in any country, but surely in Croatia it is much better than in some other countries. As for fellow Caine, you are a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would be pleased if we had participated in surveillance together you would certainly have the opportunity to see clearly, perhaps express your suspicion and say that everything we did was not enough, you were not involved in this whole process unlike other colleagues and colleagues, members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And finally, the most important thing is that Croatian citizens believe that their faith is that the system is not manipulated, that the system is not abused against anyone named Igor Dragovan, Slavko Linic, colleague Reiner or any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And I stand equally behind the conclusions we have made on the Committee on Internal Policy, for national security then as I am now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117417	Well, now that I've heard my colleagues from this side, You know, I'm being defended by the ones who planted the money in the fridge. [[Intruder president: colleague Linic.]] But They used Slavko Linić. [[Intruder president: colleague Linic.]] You use children My wives and you're defending it. [[Intruder president: colleague Linic.]] I'm ashamed of you! Mr. President, I've abused the Rules of Procedure, so I'm moving away. [[Intruder president: colleague Linic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117418	Yes, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so this is really a pre-election time, but please, my colleagues, I really listened to everything you said. Let me finish what I want to say, so at the press conference, attack me again. It is completely legitimate and democratic, perhaps even justified even in pre-election times. So I'm not going in and I'm not assessing a specific case, but this is pre-election time. But it's not time outside of us. We make that time as it is. The assessment that the Parliament is not an esteemed institution can stand for individuals, but it cannot stand for the whole because the parliamentary representatives have a conscience and have a responsibility when they raise their hands and they have decided on all acts here on the basis of their will. If someone isn't, we need to determine it specifically, and we can't say in a second that the Parliament doesn't know what it's up to. Well, we can't do that. The second thing I'm saying is, we can't even get the accurate information out of the press report to draw big conclusions. And generally known to all who deal with politics, but also to the certainty that the institutions are the guardians of our security democratic order. The suspicions of institutions should indeed be but it should be proven, not a flat-rate assessment. The principle of rule of law applies only when institutions act. And when institutions act, there's a rule of law. Without it, I dare say behind this microphone. So we stay in the service until the new Parliament is established and all democratic methods are good and desirable. But let's watch out for election needs. Thank you very much. And now let's decide the points that were. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Rainer, we're done. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117419	Mr. President, I've asked you to invite this House to call the Prime Minister here to explain the whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117420	The prime minister can't explain the situation that isn't in his area. Don't look for what you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117421	How is he not in his work? So whose is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-10-0.u117422	What would be in his circle? Thank you very much.
