ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117338	Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. I am opening the 18th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament, which I called upon at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I warmly welcome you, I want fruitful and responsible work. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Zoran Milanovic, and the respected first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Vesna Pusic. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With a call for today's extraordinary session, you have also received a draft agenda. Do any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agenda? I don't think so. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been complemented by this, I'm very sorry. In practice, that's a very common supplement, I apologize. Thank you very much. So the point is: - The debate on new circumstances relating to the implementation of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the motion for an act at the session. I ask the Prime Minister of the Honorable Zoran Milanovic to give an introductory explanation of the draft act. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117339	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly and the MPs, we have gathered today to agree with your consent and support, and after a meeting with the presidents, or representatives of all parliamentary clubs, we have reached a conclusion that the Parliament would commit to the Croatian Rules of Procedure of Government to do something that the Government has the opportunity and the right to do. But the purpose of this session of the Parliament is to further politically confirm and focus on the parliament. We'll appreciate that kind of support, and it means a lot to us, it means a lot to us. After that, the Government, or the Government's bodies, shall implement the procedure of termination of the contract, termination of contracts, exit of the contract in accordance with our law and international, general international law and the Vienna Convention. Whatever terms we use, we won't be wrong. Termination of the contract due to significant breach of the contract. I stress the agreement, i.e. the same agreement on arbitration between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia in which our two countries are parties. With this contract, I will use the term contract because many years ago they taught me so, although formally this is called an agreement, envisions the establishment of a permanent body of arbitration, an arbitration court which, once it was established, continues its work and life as a more or less independent body and makes a decision on the border. That's how it was supposed to be. The arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia six years later since its signing and today I find it correct and I do not consider it bad for Croatian interests. Some things needed to be made clear back then. You will remember that I then used an expression of constructive restraint and insisted on it before I, together with my colleagues on the site, decided in the SDP to take responsibility and support the contract. I also went to Brussels with the President of the Commission, and then it was Barroso, and Mr Ren, there was Neven Mimica and I, I insisted on it, I may have insisted on a little pretentious word but I asked the President of the Commission to convince me that he knows and is aware that there is a provision in that contract under which he is the President of the Commission, i.e. the person who is acting on this duty when the contract matures, makes a list of arbitrationists from which Croatia and Slovenia choose the arbitration. A few years later, we agreed very easily on arbitration, or the arbitration court began its work. As usual it is not a problem in the document, the document for me from the point of view of Croatian national interests was not bad and was sustainable. The problem is as usual in humans. People have failed trust, and we need to get out of that contract. The arbitration agreement envisioned, i.e. giving the court a term of office in several directions. The first and most important is the establishment of an interstate border on land and sea between the two republics. The court was to apply international law to the proceedings, which is why the same source of the dominant use of the International Court of Justice, which of course was our priority back then, but we failed to achieve this because the other party categorically insisted on arbitration. And as it is often in a policy in which we all distinguish or at least a large majority of us are good from evil here it was a choice between less or more unfavourable options. We chose a less unfavourable option than the optimal option we couldn't get. But it's behind us now, things have happened after which there's no going back to the past, something that's happened, forgive me on foreign terms, but in some rights it's called Miss Trail, so such a mistake in the process after which the procedure can no longer be continued, as if I don't know you're affecting or putting pressure on the members of the jury in American law. That's the moment the procedure is over. It happened, unfortunately it happened, and we are all uncomfortable about it and what is the worst or perhaps the best, as anyone looks at it, those who took part in it admitted it. What do we do? We need to get out of here. Under the rules of international law, there is a procedure, and we must comply with these procedures as we have so far adhered to procedures and procedural ethics. Often mentioned here there is a Croatian arbiter, I invite you not to use the word at all. There is no Croatian arbitration. There's a person with a name and a last name called what's called, so I'm going to totally impersonalize him. It is about a man who was my professor and more than a professor, mentor, and some of us who work in the Croatian service today and who have been fighting for Croatian interests and who have been doing this for the past 25 years. With this man, none of us have been in any contact at all. When we talk about whether Croatia will withdraw its arbiter, there should be two points, first Croatia does not have its arbiter. Each arbitration panel shall have the same obligations, the same duties and shall comply with the same ethical code. The moment he becomes a member of arbitration, he is no longer a Croat, nor a Slovenian, nor a Frenchman, he is an arbitration officer. So is the arbiter that was proposed by the Republic of Croatia 3.5 years ago. Will he pull himself out? It's up to him. If he retreats, well, if he doesn't back down, that might prove he's completely independent. But we don't have anything to prove. So it's all proven. We arbitration court as such can't end it, it's the pertination of the contract, but we can get out of the contract because we're the state. Whether the arbitration court continues its work or not, we no longer have anything to do with it. Within a few months, according to the general rules, or according to the Vienna Convention, Slovenia needs to be manifested about our notification, terming of the contract, the termination of its validity and the exit of Croatia from the contract due to harsh breach of the contract, and here I think it is clear to everyone. Those who are not yet clear will be made clear very soon. In these words do not recognize anything threatening, and at least according to the Republic of Slovenia. And I invite you today to hold this level of dignity and guard during the debate that we do not in any way interpret this as some kind of interstate feud or conflict between Croatia and Slovenia. It's simply a severe injury that one party is responsible for, and it's no longer being fixed, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned. So the procedure is clear. I will repeat once again, once the Parliament supports, I hope to a large majority or unanimously, but I will not prejudge, the government or give it a mandate that is stronger than the law to act in a certain way, to initiate the procedure for the termination or exit of the contract, as it says here in the draft, I will be absolutely precise, the end of the agreement with all consequences, the government will take a decision at tomorrow's session, so it will not be concluded at tomorrow's session, this in the Parliament is the conclusion, the government would decide on which the Parliament's order to initiate the procedure for the termination of the contract and to put the competent ministry in charge in this case of foreign and European affairs to implement the procedure. As far as we're concerned, the story for now at this stage of procedure is over. What the other side is going to do, there's no point in talking about it now. Probably what they're going to think is in her best interest at the time. So these things are between Croatia and Slovenia. The EU was in some way a facilitator, someone would say best man, but the child was born, had its own development path, and at one point it became very deviant and we need to implement educational measures, unfortunately that's how it is. Slovenia as a friendly neighbouring country with which we share much, and we will share even more in the coming years and joint concerns and challenges and control of the European borders that I believe Croatia will very quickly take over in a more protracted way than Slovenia, I suggest that we agree on a new model, but we can only propose that, so we can't force it, there is no force there. This model is definitely compromised, and not only is it compromised in this case, but it's thrown one leg at the model as such. I wonder who will give such confidence in such knowledge and experience in the future, which is the absolute trust of arbitration. Who's the trust in which the unsub sleeps an anticipating someone's decision on something as important as the state border and practically falls to raise your hands out of it. However, our move will show that we do not raise our hands from acting as a sovereign state, just as it must be and can be sovereign at this moment, aware of ourselves, protecting our interests and not doing so on the edge and on the harm of other people's interests. So this does not mean that Croatia has turned its back on resolving the issue of the border, no. As we have repeated several times these days, we do not have a border contract practically not practically but low except with Hungary and that if it is not a problem, at least it is not good. We do not have a border agreement with Slovenia, neither with BiH nor with Montenegro nor with Serbia, we do not have it. You should have it. After this, who will agree to the arbitration? Who's gonna give you the trust? So after this, and I believe that the politics of every Croatian government will be to insist on international justice and on what is therefore international law on codified international law which is dominant, if not the only dominant source of the rights of such courts. This, I don't know what it is anymore. I am glad that these days there were no raised tones from Ljubljana, neither from Zagreb. I hope they won't be here today. So we must go our separate ways, not by some adventure, but through stability, through predictability. We are a member of the EU, we are a NATO member, we have good development prospects and we are masters of our own destiny. This is not any deep prophecy but simply one fact that everyone in Croatia is aware of today and that we must work on together. Communityity, unity, unanimity is not in the nature of democratic policy, it is an exception. Because when everyone talks, they think and do the same, then very soon one or one starts to think about everything. So politics is also socially polarizing business and call. It's good that we agree on this. If there are any suggestions, the correction to make this House's conclusion different, although yesterday afternoon, after the government passed an act proposing it to the Parliament to adopt it, very briefly and so on, I plead that it remains that way. Because that's clear, murderously clear and penetrating. So what does the government have to do? Finish the job. After that, the government according to the general rules that are essentially international goes into procedure and does so. As things now stand with this mandate that the Parliament would give to the Government, there is no need for any government to return to the Parliament than to do what the Parliament has ordered it to do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Council's conclusions determine what it will do to the government. It's this case. That's what I was about to tell you. I ask you once again to be in the debate, I don't know how to put it without it being, that it doesn't turn out like a doctor, we watch every word. So, what happened, we need to get out of it clean. We've played by the rules, we'll play by the rules, we'll still play by the rules because we're such a team. Thank you very much and thank you in advance. The first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mrs Vesna Pusic will represent me here for the rest of the day. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117340	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. We have one replica reported. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117341	Mr. President of the Parliament, I have no intention of replicating anything to the Prime Minister, but I have simply one wish, which is that the Prime Minister would explain, given that we are talking here about the end of the agreement, please one concrete answer since we are all, there is no difference in our views. The arbitration proceedings before the arbitration tribunal are under way. Will Croatia ask for an end to the arbitration process, not an end to it, but an end to it? Since the conclusion refers only to the agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117342	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117343	That's what we talked about the day before yesterday, so there's a contract. The contract is the ground from which the arbitration court grows. The Treaty provides for conditions for the establishment of an arbitration tribunal, its general rules of conduct and the sources of applicable rights to certain cases of dispute. Therefore, Croatia cannot dispel the arbitration court which is the authority which is the pertination of the contract. Croatia is withdrawing from the procedure, Croatia termes all its obligations to the procedure and also financial if you want and the arbitration court may continue to work in any form and appear to have decided something. We don't admit it. And that's all. So this is a unique situation. There's no precedent for her. Nothing identical has ever happened and almost nothing like that has happened in the history of international trial, ever. There was one situation after the collapse of a Korean passenger plane in '84. by the Soviet Air Force over... but related to the exit from a multilateral agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an arbitration agreement. This isn't a border agreement, and it doesn't have to be interpreted that way. Because border agreements, final border agreements that aren't usually cancelled here because they can't be broken. When you have an agreement on the border, when you once signed it as with Hungary, it is not worth a clause of changed circumstances or a clause of serious breach of the contract. How are you going to hurt the border contract when you have it? But we don't have one. And the rules of conduct have been severely violated. And the other side almost explicitly admitted it. When I say the other side, the other side is an agent of the Republic of Slovenia, the person who was doing it at that time. And we have our own agent, or agent who is not and must not be in contact with the man that Croatia has appointed as the arbiter. That's what we've been doing rigorously.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117344	Thank you very much. We have one hand in the air from the HDZ Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117345	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. In order to, for mutual satisfaction or for the satisfaction of all of us to say so, we come to the text of a conclusion that binds the government which you have spoken at the beginning and thank you for the good intentions of the HDZ by fully supporting the conclusion that Croatia is going to the end of the arbitration agreement we would like only to propose something to the Assembly since we have also agreed to discuss only on behalf of the clubs. And I think even the Prime Minister mentioned it. That during the debate, this text that the government sent us from its phone session of conclusions and explanations is being completed by all clubs, we believe that there is room for the correction of the text to suit what the Government requires and what will help the Government in the follow-up process. Therefore, we propose during the discussion of the working group, which would complete the text of the proposed conclusions together with the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117346	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117347	I cannot set conditions for Parliament, however, this conclusion should be the result or fruit of our meeting yesterday and today's debate in the Assembly. I don't know what the task force would do while there's a debate going on in the House, but it's up to you. So, what I'm asking from this conclusion is that we don't make a political declaration. He's precise, and clear, binding, cold as ice but through him you can see. So, yesterday we were in touch, we sent right after the cabinet session, we immediately sent all the clubs that were at the meeting on Monday text conclusion, only reported how informed I was, I was currently informed about the HDZ club, but there was no feedback. Of course, the government, the government has gone to the Parliament with one proposal, the Parliament can do whatever it wants. So, the proposal is facilitating, it helps the parliament in some way, expressing the government's policy. The Parliament can do what they want, it doesn't have to do anything, but I'm telling you our position, our view is that it's a completely cold, precise instruction without political any, without any political messages. They don't belong here. So make it clear, you're responsible for it. The parliament has the right to call the government to account if the government defies it. But I guarantee you as Prime Minister he won't go deaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117348	Thank you very much. The hand of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the break of the government, we agreed that representatives of the government and representatives of clubs will speak in the Croatian Parliament today. So I ask you at first to clarify the new situation whether replicas will be allowed, is that what we agreed or not? If not, then I think we should confirm it here one more time. And the second thing, in the light of this conclusion proposed by the Government, is that I believe that the representatives of the club that I am doing with the Croatian Civil Party are left out, so I ask that it be fixed and we have already tried to do so but from the professional services said that the amendment cannot be submitted to it. So I ask you, Mr. President, to allow us to put the amendment into this conclusion, in fact, the real state and the fact that it was and who was all in the government meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117350	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117351	You're right. So obviously it's about oversight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117352	Mr. President, I would have responded to Jadranka Kosor because she refers to my role. Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I haven't opened the debate yet, so I couldn't even inform about the agreements that representatives of the Croatian Parliament's clubs had in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I was informed, so I was informed that the agreement was that the debate on this topic would be conducted by representatives of the club representatives. Of course, the agreement does not eliminate the Croatian Rules of Procedure, but obliges members of clubs to stick to the agreement and those who are not members of clubs and have such representatives are in line with the rules of business for them. And the act that we are going to bring is also subject to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so the arguments of the act cannot be submitted, but they do not comply with the Rules of Procedure and the amendments to the arguments of the Croatian Parliament are not decided. ... Yes, you can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117353	Here I apologize it's a failure, it's a failure but the meaning of that explanation is for some kind of, for some future as significant as yours and my word that enters the phonogram. So here in the phonogram, I say that by failing, here is my or our service, or our supervisory vision, that we have missed out, or dropped one of the clubs that were at the political consultations that were the basis of this conclusion and agreement. We drew a conclusion afterwards, we sent it to clubs and clubs up to that conclusion other than the HDZ club that said that something would suggest no one else was obvious. Of course, it does not slow you down in any way to change everything completely. But I'm asking you not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117354	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Of course, I once again indirectly said the debate takes place in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Rules of Procedure, and the agreement of clubs should be respected by club members, club members, that is true for club members. Therefore, the procedure for the establishment of the act is valid for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And the argument that he's good or not good will adopt some and some won't. That's the answer to my colleague, Mlakar. If we want to show according to information the unique position of consensus in the Croatian Parliament, then of course if there will be an amendment proposal at the very conclusion it will have to be negotiated. He's a colleague of the Mlakars.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117355	Mr. President, it is precisely with the aim of reaching consensus that the HDZ Club has no politically different parts of the text of this conclusion, but we hold that we are now not worrying about the plenary session, from the basis for the conclusion, and we continue to believe that this text can be further edited, we suggest that we sit together with the representatives of the Government, there are some documents that are not mentioned. It seems to us that without revote and submission of amendments or our conclusions, we could come to a better solution. Our proposal was only to reach a better text conclusion than the one offered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117356	Given the esteemed president that you're proposing to re-inviting the government's representatives to the council to negotiate, okay. Please the Prime Minister of the Honorable Zoran Milanovic yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117357	But the government did its job in accordance with the agreement we reached and the government made a very precise proposal for a conclusion, on which, let's say, let's be precise, the experts did. So when it comes to international legal implications and consequences, these are the words of the vagina. As far as the basics are concerned, I know that perhaps a little smut sounds like a chapter that stands solely on the basis of the debate, just a little bit, about the events, but there we managed with the 2009 experience when the Parliament made a decision that gave consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign the arbitration agreement, even then, the Parliament should not have given consent to the Government, the Government has it under the law but a warrant. But it's clear what you wanted. The 2009 decision also states that it was adopted on the basis of a debate held in the Croatian Parliament, without a legal basis, that was 2009. And it has its own reason, we did not rewrite it but followed it because it is no matter what it might be, it is nomotechnically now to call on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is secondary. So the greater power of the decision gives the political will expressed on the basis of the debate, this clear decision has been made and a clear direction to the government. Here's what's rational. Of course we can put two paragraphs of the Constitution there, but since we had one unique approach in 2009, logic was let's go and now, that's all that's going to change. Here's what I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117358	Thank you very much. We will see from the debate if necessary, a working group will be formed normally when a conclusion is agreed in which everyone else wants to participate. It is common when it is proposed that a consensus be reached to meet club presidents and see if the consensus has before the vote. Everything is normal and standard exists. So once again, I will repeat the information I am obliged to repeat, representatives and presidents of the Croatian Parliament's clubs at a meeting in the government of the Republic of Croatia have agreed that the debate on the new circumstances, etc. in the Croatian Parliament is guided by club representatives. The duration of the debate is, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 15 minutes, and those representatives who are not members of a particular club can, of course, use the business provisions on performance in the Croatian Parliament. ... You can, let me hear it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117359	So, just to clarify this agreement with the meeting that only representatives of the club representatives will speak, it is possibly a gentlemen's agreement, so we have neither signed anything nor conducted any record at that meeting nor is it imperative. That was understood, and when it was said, no one opposed it. I just need to figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117360	It's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117361	Your rights are your rights, but let us be aware that you are also seen by the Croatian public and some other public, perhaps not with such attention but watching. Therefore, I call on this not to be one battle debate but to do a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117362	Of course, that's what I was obliged to say before the debate was opened so the MPs would know what it was about. And I still have the hand of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117363	Excuse me, Mr. President, I won't answer again. Our intention was to help us get a better text. I said in the introduction that we support the government in an effort to bring an end to the arbitration treaty. Since there is no special will to work together on this text, I can give the representatives of the government a proposal, so if they think something can help them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117364	You can constructively. You can before I open the debate I'd like to repeat again, allow me that form of behavior. Please, colleague Mlakar and Mr. President. Before I open the debate, I'd like to not dramatize from the President's desk but ask fellow MPs who will speak out of their mind. The Republic of Slovenia has concluded an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in good faith and intent, regardless of its situation to assess the political objectives and political priorities for EU accession. Secondly, which I should also point out, it speaks only about the faith of the Republic of Croatia in international institutions and international law and this should be the basis for relations between people and countries. The confirmation of that position is also that since the signing of the agreement and the election of judges and the work of the court, the Republic of Croatia has never questioned the credibility of either the members of the court or the court itself. Consider that in the debate you have the responsibility to appeal to facts, but I would no longer ask how you will perform. And now I'm opening a debate, and in accordance with your agreement, we're going to have a debate about the representatives' clubs the way I got the information. It is a HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117365	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today is an extraordinary session of our High House and respecting what we agreed at a meeting with the Prime Minister, respecting what you said to the President of the Parliament about the way we are going to debate today on this very important issue for the Republic of Croatia, I believe that today's debate is not only followed by citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because this is a matter of great importance for both countries. Respecting the good neighbourly relations and diplomatic relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and respecting everything that the Republic of Slovenia has done on the path of international and legal recognition of the Republic of Croatia here, colleagues and fellow MPs need to highlight several important issues. It is not about the relationship of our policy towards all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia but about the reaction of us all here in the Croatian Parliament, but also outside the Croatian Parliament, to the moves made by the Republic of Slovenia according to the Republic of Slovenia, above all, by the official Slovenian policy. Our debate on official Slovenian politics regarding the arbitration agreement between the two countries has nothing to do with our opinion on friendly, good neighbourly relations and all those relations we have built with the Republic of Slovenia for many years. A saying that says abuse is not a use but a corruption. If someone abuses the trust of any party in any relationship, and this is a contractual relationship, the Republic of Croatia has, above all, joined this arbitration agreement in good faith, respecting the mutual relations, respecting all that we have built for many years but also respecting first and foremost one of the most important rules here, and this is respect for international law, international conventions with which the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia are signatories. When we discussed the arbitration agreement in 2009 and had the opportunity to participate in the debate itself, it was important for a prominent one, and a few years had passed since that debate, that the situation was not such that we agreed to the arbitration agreement alone, it was not that we ran into signing the arbitration agreement because we had no other move but the situation was the opposite. There has been a debate that Slovenia has blocked accession negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU and has questioned the very path that the Republic of Croatia has been through, and this is our approach as full members of the EU. Today we are talking about equality among all the Member States of Europe, and it should also be pointed out that this equality should also be present in this respect, and this is an arbitration agreement on the demarcation of borders between the two countries. If we cannot speak freely at the extraordinary session of the Parliament today, and we will also respect our parliamentary duties and our legal skills and all that, we should make it clear to the Croatian public that in this procedure the Croatian government has in the past days and the Croatian Parliament has set up well, because it is a matter of protecting fundamental Croatian national interests. Therefore, the HDSSB Club, which we also participated in a meeting with the Prime Minister of Croatia, the Croatian Government's move, the foreign ministry's move and the move and the debate of all representatives and presidents of the Croatian Parliament's representatives, are being held as necessary, we commend it. This is the first time in the history of the Croatian state that one table was sat down by the Prime Minister, all club presidents when it comes to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. And that's something that all of them and all of us who, sometimes in our official policies and other debates, don't have to agree. Here we agreed on an important and key issue, which is that the Republic of Croatia needs to break the arbitration agreement because of significant violations of the arbitration agreement, to come out of this agreement and continue to refer to international diplomatic and legal opportunities, which is the path that will follow this session of the Croatian Parliament. It is important here to point out that we are not personally looking forward to yesterday's move by the official Slovenian policy and statements by the Slovenian prime minister, as well as by some former Slovenian government officials, that they have made a chess move to the Republic of Croatia by appointment of the President of the International Court of Justice for the representative of Slovenia at the arbitration court. The appointment of the President of the International Court of Justice of Mr Ronny Abraham as representative of Slovenia in the arbitration court is something we cannot firstly challenge as a possibility of Slovenian official policy. But what we can dispute by carefully reading the Statute of the International Court of Justice which states in Articles 16 and 17 that officials of the International Court of Justice may be involved in bodies outside the court is clear and this should be opened today in this debate that it is a bit of a questionable matter whether it is possible for the President of the International Court of Justice to also be a representative of another State in the Court of Justice where they will represent as a person who should be impartial in their trial of one side in the arbitration dispute. And so, Article 16. The statute of the International Court of Justice states that members of the court cannot perform any political and administrative functions, nor can any other employment of professional nature be accepted, in the event of doubt the court decides. And in Article 17, the members of the court cannot act in any case as agents, advisers or lawyers. They may not participate in the resolution of any of the cases in which they have previously participated as agents, advisers or lawyers of one of the parties as members of a national or international court, investigation committee or in any other property. And in case of doubt, the court decides. We hope that, on the basis of the respect of the Statute of the International Court of Justice, at least this proposal from the Republic of Slovenia will be questioned whether the President of the International Court of Justice may be a member of the Court of Justice, while respecting the fact that the Republic of Slovenia announced after this procedure the termination of the agreement is a further legal and political path, which is to address the International Court of Justice. If this case comes to pass that this appointment is not accepted by the Court of Justice in such a way that the arbitration tribunal can disband or continue its action, we are of the opinion that the Republic of Croatia should address other bodies, which is the UN Secretary-General in an attempt to resolve the dispute peacefully between the two states, and the peaceful settlement of the dispute does not mean the introduction of the measure of the dispute, which is the demarcation of the sea and land between the two sovereign states. A number of legal issues are being raised, what is most important for the HDSB club is that we are unique in that the Croatian Parliament is the same one who brought 129 votes when we voted on this arbitration agreement a unique decision to protect national interests and that we will open the door to Croatia's EU path further with this arbitration agreement. Here we are now in a situation that we will not be able to immediately break our agreement with the Republic of Slovenia and the arbitration court by today's decision of the Parliament and vote, but rather a long way to go, as many international legal experts in Croatia have said from 3 months to year, year and a half. This means that this is an important step of the Croatian Parliament in authorising the Government to terminate the agreement and for further steps that the Government is empowered by the Parliament to take and all that we need to be careful about is respecting international law above all. At no time has the Republic of Croatia gone beyond the framework of respect for international law, international conventions and all those international agreements that bind our country as sovereign when it comes to the demarcation relationship between its neighbours. And what obliges us is respecting not only the elements of this arbitration agreement but also respecting the Vienna Convention on International Treaties and respecting our convention that we have joined at the International Court of Sea Rights in Hamburg. The International Court of Sea Rights in Hamburg also has something to say as an independent body on this dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Vienna Convention obliges us under Article 60 which speaks clearly if there are significant violations of the international treaty and this is not authorized to lobby representatives of Slovenia at the arbitration court and all the facts that occurred after that day first confirmed by the official Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the resignation of their two members at the arbitration court that everything as the official Slovenian policy said in the first days I am sure that there would be no resignation of the members of the Slovenian representatives of any judge, there were representatives of the Slovenian Government at the arbitration court. Slovenia, too, has given the act for Croatia's legitimacy precisely for making such a decision. After that day, the session and meeting held in Slovenia with representatives of parliamentary parties, the proposal for the President of the International Court of Justice to be the Slovenian representative of the arbitration court and today's session of the Government of Slovenia, where it should confirm that decision, gives us even more the right to be unique for the first time in a long time, and that is that the Croatian Parliament today, we hope at the HDSB club will unanimously decide that this agreement should be terminated and that the official Croatian politics and Croatian government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomacy are empowered to represent Croatian national interests in the way it is authorised by the Croatian Parliament. It is a fundamental and important issue that is expected of us from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We wondered if it was necessary to propose on this issue a referendum where citizens outside Parliament would give their opinion on it, given that we were unanimous and unique in a joint meeting with the Prime Minister, we think that all of us, at all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are responsible for taking care of Croatian national interests, were empowered by the Croatian people, for this we have been empowered by all those who in the present creation of the Croatian state, who gave their pain with their lives, whether their diplomatic efforts, or their policies, to whatever we have protected the fundamental, vital Croatian national interests. The HDSSB Club also agrees with the proposals that came at the beginning of the session to try if there is a need to further strengthen this argument that we have received with the Government proposal as a conclusion because this explanation will certainly be read by respected colleagues and colleagues not only in the authorities of the neighbouring friendly state of Slovenia but also in the bodies of the European Commission and in all diplomatic representations both in Croatia and Slovenia. We should be very careful to respect what we have respected all the time and that is our impartiality in the process, our goodwill to sign the arbitration agreement, our goodwill not to block the negotiations that have stopped because of Slovenia. No country our neighbour partner, an EU member, should push into the chest that they are the first to become members of the EU, that they are the first to become members of the NATO alliance. We are now equal, we are full members of the EU and no one else is in anything, and especially in protecting Croatian national interests will not and must not prevent us. The HDSSB club gives full legitimacy to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, to give the Government the opportunity and the obligation to report to us on everything in due time, and to take those moves that we have authorized in our conclusion and, above all, to protect Croatian national interests, and to the neighbouring friendly Republic of Slovenia, we advise that nothing will happen if we just go back to the beginning and that is to respect the international law of the sea, and this is a drawing of demarcation in the middle so that no one will be satisfied. Slovenia will have the right to a safe passage to the Croatian territorial sea but to give up the territorial sea is the same thing as to give up its sovereignty. That is why we believe in the wisdom of the Croatian government and the firmness of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117366	Thank you too, dear colleague Josip Salapic. We are going to the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117367	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The arbitration proceedings and the work of the arbitration court are legally, politically and morally discredited. There has been a breach of confidentiality, a threat of impartiality, a breach of trust and a breach of the rules of the court's work. The Republic of Croatia cannot expect a fair decision in such a procedure. And in the 30th of 2009 when the Parliament decided to give consent to the Government to sign the agreement on the 13th of November and 2009 was only constructively against the agreement, some constructively abstentioned but most in the Croatian Parliament without delay. The meaning of this Agreement is not only in the definition of the border, as Article 3(1) clearly requires the court to decide on the course of the border, the relation of Slovenia to the open sea and the third, the regime for the use of relevant maritime areas. The importance of the agreement is far wider than the border line itself. The objections to this agreement, which were then made, have shown the vindication of these fears these days. First, the list of arbiters at the moment when the Parliament decided it was not known, these are the two members and the president. The second objection was precisely to that provision on Slovenia's open sea relationship, and that was the majority of the opposition at the time. I'm a team, and later it turns out that the obvious list of arbiters was not a problem because in January 2012. Croatia and Slovenia reached an agreement on the appointment of the three arbitration members. That statement, that word of Slovenia's relationship, according to a statement by the foreign minister of neighbouring Slovenia Erjavac in April, proved to mean, at least he claims, 2/3 of Slovenia, 1/3 of Croatia. My reserve and vote against was due to the experience that arbitration often decides more by political rather than legal or international legal arguments. My second reason for fear, opposition and dissatisfaction and then today is that in Croatia only Savudrija vala, Piran Bay, and from published phonograms, the transcripts of the talks are visible from that sentence, written on Mura and Bezovec, that on the continental part of the Međimurje County the surface view is far greater territorial claim than the Savadria wave itself. And I simply can't believe that no one takes the map of Croatia, finds that embankment on Mura and this Bezovec to understand what that phonogram that was publicly published is saying. Which we were against back then, we were declared not to understand national interests, it was said that entering the EU, the Slovenian blockade is an obstacle to this national goal, arbitration is a patriotic decision because it removes that obstacle. Today, they tell you that canceling or ending the deal is a patriotic act. I agree with that now. Slovenia has been blocking Croatia in negotiations, blackmailing Croatia, and then someone in the Assembly said it was an abuse of Croatian people, and I am adding an arrogant and arrogant bad neighborhood. But what preceded this agreement? The one from the 1990s and earlier two thousandths, I would like to remind myself that in 2006 or 2007 the Prime Ministers Sanader and Jansa agreed to transfer the border dispute to the International Court of Justice. That was a deal that was reached if I wasn't wrong in early 2007. After that, Slovenia gave up on it. Then came the plan... one. In May 2009. The Croatian Parliament accepted it as an attempt to solve the problem, Slovenia rejected it. And then the thing takes American diplomacy into its own hands and comes to this arbitration agreement. And despite all this, despite all these circumstances, Croatia agrees to an agreement, access to the establishment of an arbitration court to resolve the border dispute. So what happened now? Jernej Sekolec is urging members of the arbitration court to judge in favour of Slovenia, and is assisted by an official representative of the Republic of Slovenia in the work of the arbitration court. This Regulation shall enter This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When Mr Erjavec publicly stated in April that he had information that the decision 2/3 of Slovenia in Savudrija is valid for 1/3 of Croatia, it is proof for me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or at least some members, participated in the impact on the work of the arbitration tribunal, but I would also like to stress that, under Article 10(2) of the Agreement, the Court was able to react by a provisional measure in order to maintain the status quo as provided for in Article 10(2) of the Agreement. .... The court didn't react, and he could. and that is why Croatia has to react. The arbitration procedure has been contaminated and polluted, the arbiters are not exclusively professional, impartial and independent. I will repeat these three words, professionally, impartially and independently. Those words in 2009 when the Parliament ratified the agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those involved in the debate and Mrs Kosor stressed the importance of reaching an agreement for the arbitration to be professional, impartial and independent. The rules of the permanent arbitration tribunal in disputes between the two states, and Article 6 of the Agreement stipulates that these rules apply also to the work of this court, does not allow lobbying. It's forbidden behavior. As a result, rules have been broken, trust violated, the impartiality of the arbiter is compromised. Croatia has the opportunity to show for the first time in international relations courage, determination, courage and to prove that it is a sovereign state no matter what the members of the European Commission think. And whatever messages are sent today and yesterday from Brussels to Croatia, of course it will be evidence if the contract or agreement is terminated. And at the end of the message, a message to the neighbors, "Now let's go fair!" And no replacement of the arbiter can restore confidence in this arbitration procedure because the compromising documents, the notes which are the subject of publicly published transcripts, are part of the court's official documents. Therefore, when documents remain to be replaced by an arbitration panel of a particular judge or judges, it does not mean that the causes of violations of the rules, confidentiality of proceedings and that trust has been violated. There is an International Court of Justice that most often judges, judges in such disputes, and Croatia must insist that the case be resolved there however often some officials of Slovenia, the former, seemed to quote: "is not elastic enough in their work." And we also learn from future responsible people messages Croatia will solve three more border disputes with three countries, or more disputes, but from three countries, let this be an experience that arbitration is an ever greater risk than existing international courts. That arbitration also causes more and more mistrust, fear, and now we have proven the possibility of lobbying at the expense of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this debate and the decision that the Parliament will make will be a good foundation for Croatia to settle future disputes in front of international courts. And that is why the Croatian Labour Club will support the proposal for a conclusion requiring the government to launch a break-up procedure for the existing agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117368	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lesar. On behalf of the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here's your esteemed vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An explanation on one subject, because I guess multiple times, there's a possibility that he'll report multiple times in the debate. First, this is not a good time for us. Croatia really wanted the border issue resolved by international arbitration and would be the happiest if possible. Unfortunately, procedures have proved to be such that this is not possible, and we will have to look for another way. Secondly, Croatia originally considered it necessary to go to the International Court of Justice but as it is known that the dispute could be resolved at the International Court of Justice should be agreed by both sides. So not enough desire just one side. In this case, there was no agreement between both sides. And finally, I think particularly important, because it appears quite often, the the thesis that what happened happened because the arbitration agreement was at the expense of Croatia. I think what it came up with was just the other way around, if anything. Therefore, the arbitration agreement that the Slovenian representatives in this case were an agent and a judge in arbitration, so the arbitration judge estimated that applying the arbitration agreement could achieve the objective they thought they wanted to achieve would not have the need to violate it. So we're not in trouble because of the arbitration agreement, we're in trouble because of a breach of the arbitration agreement. Because that's what it came to. And that's why we have a situation today that we have, if it hadn't been for the violation of the arbitration agreement, if there had been a legitimate artis, and in accordance with all the provisions of the arbitration agreement, we wouldn't have this situation. But just because he's been broken and it's actually been done is actually permanent damage to the object itself on the basis of which the decision is made we're in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117370	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Prime Minister. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. A respected representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt and the DC club, Novi val and the People's Party of Reformists is on the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117371	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected first vice president with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support and absolutely support this conclusion proposed by the government. However, we want to point to some things, not entering the past, not entering the analogy itself and the history of the creation of the arbitration agreement. We signed him, we voted for him, and he's really not controversial for us. But what the first vice president said was a controversial way of treating the arbitration court. Croatia finally entered the arbitration court no matter what, in good faith. This particular trust in the functioning of the arbitration court has now gone unwittingly, lost. And that's what we think should put an emphasis on. Therefore, apart from breach of the rules of the agreement or of the arbitration procedure agreement, trust in the work of the arbitration court has definitely been violated. And that, in our opinion, goes beyond that framework of violation of the arbitration agreement itself and violation of the confidentiality of the arbitration agreement itself. The agreement of a common strategy between the arbitration panel and the representative is more than a violation of the confidentiality of the proceedings. Designing an impact plan on other arbitres is more than a violation of the confidentiality of the procedure. The subsequent addition of the memo to the file after the end of the oral hearing of the colleague and colleagues is more than a violation of the confidentiality of the proceedings and it is an injury to the arbitration tribunal itself. The question is raised and the same should be answered and taken into account what will happen now that Croatia makes this decision or when the Croatian Parliament gives the Government the power to terminate the contract. The practice we have in international law is very poor. Therefore, there is a possibility that the arbitration process could continue despite Croatia's will. And that is why our club asks the Government to refer the arbitration court to a request for the end of the proceedings, because the procedure as it has been led so far is not in accordance with the principles of trust he is led by the opposite legal work that is seen from the very behaviour of some judges, so Slovenian representatives, and he should indeed be terminated as such. Just appointing a new judge couldn't absolutely mean anything new, no more quality because we really don't know to what extent the procedure itself was dirty, to what extent did this behavior inappropriately, unworthyly get involved in the process? Croatia should also absolutely seek the end of this arbitration procedure. It is provided for by the arbitration rules because the rules say that if the arbitration proceedings are to continue before the arbitration decision is taken, the arbitration court is obliged to inform the parties of its intention and to decide to end the proceedings. If none of the parties object to this, the arbitration court shall be empowered to make such a decision. Therefore, the arbitration court may make such a decision but it does not have to, may continue the proceedings without Croatia and make a decision. There are two examples in the world in the case of Argentina and Chile that have disputed over the ownership of the three islands, when Argentina did not accept the arbitration court's decision. There is also an example of China and the Philippines where China left the arbitration process but the arbitration process continued. And that is why we believe that it is necessary for the Government to ask the arbitration court to end the proceedings. Here's what's going to happen to my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117372	Thank you very much. The second part on behalf of the club is the same respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117373	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will take the opportunity to welcome my fellow Istrian fishermen, representatives of the CEH who are upstairs at the gallery. I will welcome those present here and all other crews of fishing vessels who, at this moment, be assured of the highest level of interest following this debate. They are following this debate not because they expect this debate to fix everything that has been missed when it comes to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic, and there is much to be talked about for hours and days and not in these 8 minutes, they are following what as responsible people and rational people are quietly and dignifiedly expecting that Croatian politics will finally start to function seriously, appropriately, politics of a sovereign state. They are waiting for Croatia to become a complete state. It is very certain that according to the atmosphere that today's government in the assembly this is the possible start of such a practice of introducing responsible policies in a professional way. They expect that future perceptions of Croatian politics do not distinguish between a square metre of sea and a square metre of land. They expect it to be understood that in this House and in the Croatian public every problem is to approach it from the position of truth, and let's say the truth in this particular case is that we have entered into the good faith, but very probably we have entered into the good faith in this because of the circumstances that were at the time. The truth is that Croatian politics also had to appreciate the priorities but the truth is that it is not the ambition of the neighbouring country's political summit in the open sea, but that the ambition of contact with the open sea is contrary to the provisions of the 82nd Convention on the Law of the Sea and should not be angry with the political summit of our neighbouring country. They are very ambitious to protect interests and try to achieve and interests in an area that does not belong to them is an eternal interest and everything else is transitory. The Croatian Parliament has made a decision on granting consent to the signing of the 2009 agreement on whose quality as a man who is not a legal expert, I will not debate, the Croatian Parliament today is meeting as Parliament of the state which had to react to the violation of its interests, to the violation of good access in good faith, protecting its national interests, but the Croatian Parliament is discussing several days after we have all actually learned what is going on. Meanwhile, Slovenian politics has taken a move that may seem relevant to someone, someone irrelevant has changed the judge without waiting, even in violation of their own regulations. When it comes to the sovereignty of the state, then it is my personal position, as well as my party's position, as well as my colleague from the club that the Parliament should not wait for the government. In situations like this, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly are convened if it is due at three o'clock in the night. Enough times from the position of good neighbourly relations of the responsible state we have acted slowly, softly, reserved. Our political position, the international political position was no longer as it was at the moment when very problematic decisions on ZERP were made in this House, it is no longer the same as when this agreement was signed. We are today a sovereign country, a member of the EU and NATO alliance, and I believe that one of the conclusions that this House has to make formally or informally today, that we are making ourselves much stronger in the future, that as a responsible EU member state we can take into consideration the European Commission's position, but that the European Commission's position finally, when it comes to a line that does not go through, does not have to be bound. When it comes to sovereignty, the sovereignty of the serious state and serious policy are not being debated. They don't discuss sovereignty. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is about sovereignty, and for this reason I appeal to the rest of today's debate to pass in a calm tone, to be constructive, to give absolute political support to our government in the hope that if it happens to us as a country and some similar situation doesn't give God in the future, that as a policy, as a Parliament and as a society, we will react even faster and even more promptly because the power of the message outside is not only in the content of this decision that we are going to support today, the strength is, in that we should not be euphoric, the power is in consensus, but strength is also in the speed of the reaction. And ultimately, the recommendation to the Foreign Ministry, well-intentioned, is that further treatment of this issue be treated much more promptically, more professionally than it was today. And appeal to the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Croatia as a key man of executive authority, to continue in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, further in the spirit of the behaviour of a civilised European country to protect those people who are up on the balcony and their colleagues because everyone who has been referred to this problem in the last 15 years very well knows that these people are not a small number of times, exposed to behaviour that could not be as easily characterized as civilised, tolerated and polite. As their colleague, but also as a parliamentary representative, I repeat, I expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the context of civilised behaviour, but very clearly and very determined that Istrian fishermen who have so far been in unpleasant situations of protection to the end. It is the duty of the executive authority of every sovereign state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117374	Thank you, Your Honor. But for your statement that the meeting of the Croatian Parliament was to be called first thing tomorrow, I must warn you that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and their convocation must be done precisely in accordance with the regulations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This is the most important democratic principle of rule of law, and I, while President of the Croatian Parliament, will protect and hopefully protect these frameworks together with you. Nothing has escaped or Croatia is nervous, in peace we talk about continuing the dispute with the neighbours and we will continue to do so. I invite the SDSS Club and the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac, to present the club's position on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117375	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable First Vice President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. We as political parties and as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and also the Government have no other choice but to make a decision that is more or less caused by what happened during the arbitration proceedings in the Piran Bay. The facts, i.e. first the indications and then the facts that we have learned, which have been published, speak of that the arbitration procedure has been severely compromised, contaminated and in this sense in certain segments according to our understanding, according to our reading of the arbitration agreement has been violated. And regardless of the fact that this House at a time of great majority, with only 6 MPs and deputies who did not support it, supported the arbitration agreement, regardless of what we expected in good faith that arbitration would bring solutions that would correspond to the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of what we expected in the best faith as the minister here pointed out to the arbitration procedure so equally at present in the best faith in the interests of the protection of the very way the arbitration court works itself and at the same time the protection of those acts on the basis of which we supported the arbitration proceedings of the Republic of Croatia should be done in accordance with the conclusion that the Government has proposed here today. And in that sense, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the conclusion the government has made. By doing so, colleagues and colleagues of course the matter is far from over, it is just beginning without great certainty and of course with many possible uncertainty throughout the process. And if I may now share here with you colleagues and colleagues what is our job if we want to reduce uncertainty and increase the confidence of our actions while at the same time increasing the acceptability and understanding of our arguments to those who need to listen to this argument, regardless of who they are. First, there is no doubt that we can defend the government's decision and support the parliament. At the very least, those places concerning the violation of the rules on time limits and the way documents necessary to decide are delivered. At the very least, that. And we hope that the arbitration court, in its opinion expected by the Government, which we expect to take into account this kind of argument and that it will show the necessary understanding of the possible impact in thinking, reasoning and in the final decision of the members of the Court of Justice when it comes to the dispute itself, which could have been brought about by the process of presenting documents that were outside the deadline and which were in a way that was not allowed. Secondly, our primary interest is not to deepen and extend the dispute with the Republic of Slovenia. I say we don't deepen one more time, and we don't extend the dispute. Because it's equally dangerous for both us and them. If we are careless, if we are unilateral, it can make a historic misunderstanding between us and the Republic of Slovenia. He has already, in a certain sense, been formed. The arbitration was supposed to be the way to stop it. And we on our side need to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. Especially so, and I'm going to say that in this place, that bay and that sea is a common heritage. We acquired it as a family, we acquired it at a historic moment and under certain political circumstances and a certain political community that we must protect from our own ways of understanding how to distinguish and which we must protect from ways that we can endanger each other's interests. And regardless of what I know, there is little understanding in us for that legacy, especially from those whose political role models have not contributed to any of this legacy being as rich as it was and what it is, which is the wealth of heritage that we have to guard. The third thing I want to say to international institutions, regardless of whether we are talking about judges, possible and members of the arbitration court and other institutions, is our obligation to deal with them with full respect. Disqualification or attempts at disqualification as we heard or could see absolutely does not go into the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The same applies naturally to the views of the European Commission or anyone else. In our opinion, Croatia should be shown here as a country which, in new circumstances, is able to respect institutions with which to cooperate and which is an integral part, and on the other hand should be able to argue and represent, defend and defend its own views and its own interests. That's three things that are of special importance. A colleague of Skare-Ozbolt is also at a meeting with the prime minister and today she pointed out two things there are several possible scenarios that will, as a result, be possible. It is possible for the court to continue to work, it is possible to make a decision but it is possible for us to do in this process what is decisive for our interests. It may not happen, it is possible to move towards the International Court of Justice, but it is possible that this movement is completely uncertain and to produce the status quo. If they produce the status quo in circumstances where we already have unresolved conflicts with most of our neighbours when the border was at sea, on land, on the rivers we will return to a position that will not be easier than when we agreed to arbitration quite safely. For this reason, the Republic of Croatia should, in our opinion, replace the dispute policy with the policy of seeking a solution in accordance with its interest wherever possible. Dispute policy only there and when we see that no one recognizes our solution, but to maintain circumstances in which we will have agreements more open than we can control for our interest as we understand it is not good. Therefore, this call to sovereignty in the 19th century language in circumstances where we are not concerned about sovereignty in a number of other elements of our country's sovereignty in political, constitutionally not reasonable, is not reasonable. The Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is the will of a respected fellow Baranovic, but also the sovereignty of that will is not only violated in this decision, every day it violates either this court or not from another country, but from our own country, it is being violated by political decisions from different sides, but we are, of course, going through and beyond. And we are gathering in a place where we must gather but not with rhetoric that will not allow us to turn this place into an efficient, quality, convincing and acceptable way of defending what we want with this conclusion, which is Croatia that wants to cooperate, Croatia that wants its interests to be recognised, which wants things to happen in accordance with the rules acceptable to all. And we from the SDSS Club are convinced that such a procedure and such behaviour of the Republic of Croatia can achieve its goal and be prepared that there will be oscillations in perception, in evaluations and in outcome prospects when it comes to the dispute we are discussing today. And I will return to the beginning of what I said, not the government, not the Parliament, nor the political parties in the Republic have any other options than that for which we will decide today. This is because what we have accepted in our best faith is the previous Government of Ms. Kosor and the Parliament in that term, with the other majority, is hardly compromised, contaminated and broken in certain segments. And for this reason, it is our obligation not as a gesture to create enmity with anyone, not to respect anyone, but as a gesture to protect the rules by which we can participate in something that guarantees that the interests and rights of everyone including the Republic of Croatia will be respected. Therefore, minimum respected and rules to be followed and applied as prescribed. For these reasons, the Club representative of the SDSS will support these conclusions and, of course, together with other clubs, follow the overall follow-up of the proceedings in connection with the arbitration dispute, or what has arisen as a result of the really difficult and difficult way of dealing with certain people in the arbitration court and individual people representing the neighbouring state of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117376	Thank you, too, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac. But I would like, probably a lapus, to warn you that Croatia has no conflict with any country. There are unresolved questions and disputes. I think it's important to focus on relationships. Honorable representative Igor Coleman on behalf of the Croatian Assembly club, their position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117377	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs and Assistant Ministers. This is unfortunately one ugly reason why we met at this extraordinary session, it would have been better if it hadn't happened. But I have to say this at a personal moment of this debate that I feel good this morning, I feel good because it feels good to have a country that works, I feel good because it feels good to have a government that is both professionally and committed to caring for state interests, I feel good because it feels good to have a diplomacy that can deal with challenges and I feel good on condition that it doesn't spoil this moment, because it's good to have a Parliament that's able to cool its head and talk rationally, talk and make decisions in the topics of this caliber. The HNS will, of course, probably not be as questionable as I hope, and everyone else will support the proposal for this conclusion today in the Croatian Parliament. This arbitration story is unfortunately a done deal. Not because Croatia wanted to end it, Croatia was doing exactly the opposite, trying not to end it in the way it ends, not because Croatia would unilaterally or voluntarily want to get out of this process, but because the agreement unfortunately broke the other side in an event that was indeed unprecedented in previous international practice. And for us as the Republic of Croatia, there is no reason, nor is there any possibility that we can remain in this process any longer. And there is really not a lot of wisdom about what happened here and what is controversial throughout the story, it is best confirmed by the reactions on the Slovenian side by the first to point out that the conversations were recorded instead of the content of these conversations, to the later resignations, and also by these last maneuvers who really only confirm everything we already know, which is that in an unauthorized and inadmissible way they tried to influence the outcome of arbitration by violating the fundamental principles of honesty, legality, independence and credibility. Why that happened, we can guess. Probably because both the facts on the ground and the arguments presented in the procedure so far and the way the total work was done go hand in hand to us, RH. So in the lack of arguments, the lack of facts went to a dirty game and once again it turned out that it was never a good choice or a good way to do things. That in the whole story something was wrong, it became quite clear a few months ago when Slovenian Foreign Minister said that he had informal information from reliable sources on the direction in which the rulings would go and everything that has happened since to date was simply the development of events and obtaining final confirmation that the Republic of Croatia was and is right. And as I've already said, that's when the arbitration story is over, there's no going back in this case. And no maneuvers, resignations, new arbitaries can change the fact that this whole case and procedure is deeply and irretrievably polluted and polluted. A few sentences about it, colleagues and colleagues have mentioned it at times, but let's be absolutely clear what the key to the problem is. Jernej Sokolec was a Slovenian member of the court who participated in the discussions and when he found that something was missing either in the file or in the case, or thought it would be good to add something, he often asked Simone Drenik for further information and information and then applied them as his notes after the allowed deadline to the case. There's even information that that's how he communicated with the secretary of arbitration. So on the one hand, we have procedures that are completely inadmissible in themselves, but on the other hand these inadmissible actions have polluted the whole object, the whole process that at this point is no longer completely impossible to determine what is legal and by the rules of the case, which is not. And with all the effort and with all due respect to all who would put this effort into doing so, the problem is no longer possible to solve and impossible to shake and I repeat no return. Because all that this process could produce afterwards would be the fruits of a poisonous tree to use that term in this sense for the Republic of Croatia and for the international legal order entirely unacceptable. I'm sorry, but that's right. The Republic of Croatia has indeed entered the arbitration process in good faith, politely and respecting international institutions and the international legal order, and thus has acted all the time. And it's good that she's been acting like this all along. You all remember more or less in 2009 when this story came into play, it was related to Croatia's entry into the EU, our fundamental strategic goal and thank God that we achieved this fundamental strategic goal in the meantime, that it was indeed a strategic goal and that it should have been seen both from the situation in the Republic itself and from the situation in the EU and in the situation in our region, and that I am not talking at all about the security political and social situation in our vicinity, when I tell our thoughts on the EU closer and further environment. And entering this agreement was a moment of important policy responsibility where Croatia really showed political maturity and political responsibility. And in that sense, this procedure should be observed. I have to, let me in two sentences as a representative of the HNS Club remind you of our role then, we were then an opposition party, but regardless of which we supported from the very beginning and the paraphrasing of this agreement, with one important condition that we set for ratification, it concerned the election of arbitarians, so that the Republic of Croatia would agree to arbitration, not that they would be appointed by this or that body without consent. This seemed important to us in the protection of national interests and it turns out that we were right, that it was a good decision and that we made a good decision when we supported the then government, paraphrasing and ratification of this agreement as an opposition party. But let me just get back to that matter of good faith and decency for a little while. And I personally, and all of my colleagues and colleagues from the HNS, think that this is the only way to conduct politics both at home and internationally that is sustainable in the long term, in good faith and decent. And this situation that we've found ourselves in is very well-confirmed and proven. Just because the Republic of Croatia has performed in good faith, decent and respectful institutions, and not with a fig in the pocket and under the table as the other side, we can stand here unanimously behind the decision that we will stand behind. We as a state can look in the mirror and face anyone on the international scene and tell anyone this is inadmissible behavior and that story is over for us. Only one in a personal and political sense who can stand behind himself and his actions can then stand up and react as we do these days, or today we all react together politically united. And I am glad that after a long time, after a decision on Croatia's entry into the EU, we again seem to have reached a political agreement and a political consensus on an important strategic topic of national interest. The arbitration agreement provides for compliance with the rules, which is the basis of the agreement, each such agreement. We did it, the other side didn't do it, and the story's over. And no maneuvers and no tactical moves of anyone else's will and cannot change that. Regarding this case, colleagues and colleagues also mentioned this, but on behalf of the HNS club, I would like to highlight one more thing, the Croatian people and the Slovenian people are friendly peoples. We share the past, share the present, and that's if there's nothing else geographical inevitability, we'll share the future. And these excesses and these kind of excesses can't and can't change or change that fact. But taught by the experience of this case, including some other cases, let us remember the blockade of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, we must be aware that our political and diplomatic relations must be viewed permanently, not to say long-term, thoughtfully and constructively. But always aware of the possibilities of these steps backwards. Being ready for them to be an opportunity for the next step forward, not to be the cause of drama, conflict and misunderstanding. What's in front of us now, what's left? The Republic of Croatia, in particular, should stress this, is still interested and ready to address this issue as well as all other open issues with countries in the region, of course with all other countries with which we have open issues, but under conditions and in accordance with international law. This agreement, and unfortunately even this method, is irrevocably muddy and there is no return. What is ahead of us is finding a lasting solution with the protection of state, strategic interests such as this government and so far have always done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117378	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to argue with the representatives' clubs ahead. The club of representatives of Independent Leftists and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117379	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I agree with Mr. Pupovac that every day we violate sovereignty, we violate Croatia's sovereignty ourselves, but that is no reason not to start protecting him in all segments as of today. I also agree with Mr. Mlakar that this text should be cleared because he is even spellingly incorrect. And we can't, because here in the explanation we don't know who's proposing this because it's a fall. Well, at least we need to describe, put the text together that makes grammatical and logical sense. After a message came from Slovenia yesterday that Slovenia's policy by selecting International Court of Justice President Ronny Abraham gave its judge chess-mat the attempts of Croatia to fully challenge the arbitration way of resolving the dispute was further enhanced the impression that such a political game of imagination without content, full of twists, breeding games with judges, full of pressure and uncleanness would not have been able to carve out any of the most imaginative directors of today's Quentin Tarantino. If we had told Tarantin that he was cutting out the situations that would have been happening to us, Croatia, he wouldn't have done them so well and so imaginatively, as Slovenian politicians and judges have done in our favour. That old saying came true, "Whoso the sword is bowing, by the sword and dying." All those pressures, all those years of blackmail and holding a knife under your throat, all that racketeering they held us with in the EU lobby of Slovenia's politics ran aground. Instead of being helped by Slovenian politicians, we were blackmailed and fairy tales of good neighbourly relations. The Slovenian political summit sought and the other members quietly agreed to pay only Croatia to join the EU with its territory. That is why the Slovenians insisted on arbitration because they were and are now aware that on the basis of justice, justice and fact, they cannot get what is Croatian. They did not agree to a permanent court or, firstly, the International Court of the United Nations in The Hague or the International Court of Law of the Sea in Hamburg because the permanent court strictly applies international law and does not create it, and the arbitration court also applies the law but under the arbitration agreement is also guided by the criteria of good neighbourly relations and historical circumstances and the interests of the parties in the proceedings. And the arbitration court itself creates the right to a certain procedure. And when judges themselves create the right it's bad, very bad at least one side of the process. And this was warned by experts such as Davorin Rudolph, and Professor Vladimir Ibler, who was very angry with the fact that Croatian negotiators and then, most of all, Croatian politicians do not want to pay attention to the fact that they agreed to a compromise in which Croatia could lose almost everything. Not on the basis of the right, but on the basis of the bias of the judges to whom it is read, the copy of the talks of the Slovenian judge and the head of the arbitration court is perfectly normal for someone to influence them, lobby and pressure them, to insert the files after the scheduled deadline, which is another argument for leaving the arbitration. In other news, Slovenian Foreign Minister Erjavec told the media in April that he had information that Slovenia would receive the Piran Bay, or Savudrija Wave. He boasted of the results that were yet to be known in the fall. And no one in the court responded. They didn't deny that anything was known, let alone that the statement of Erjay was a deception. Erjavec had good information which only confirms the fact that the entire affair involved the Slovenian political summit. The discussion between Simona Drenik, Slovenian MPs in front of the arbitration court and Judge Jernej Sekolac, proves an attempt to kidnap the Croatian sea and Croatian territory although the attempt did not occur without the knowledge of the Slovenian summit and the prime minister and foreign minister who, after the discovery in the international analyses of the trial of the unrecorded scandal, act as if nothing had happened, has no excuse. They put their heads in the sand and still drink. There is no proposal for all of this to rise to the level of international law, not cumulation. They want our bay and dot or what they'd say dot. Well, he can't. And after our secret services and Slovenian parties broke into the evening, and secretly I hope that our secret services and Slovenian sides participated in the break-in, but also the other judges of the first Erjavec reaction reads "These are the briberies from Croatia." The Croats did not plant, we naively believed in honesty, in law, in the principle and independence of arbitration. All that wasn't there. And we do, it looks like we're all getting along out of that bad-argumented Slovenian tarantine. We don't need to get out of here, pushing out, respecting a protocol that's going to be long and tiring. But if we have endured the pressures of Slovenia before we enter the EU, we will also endure this very difficult and difficult situation where Slovenian politics are pushing auto goals from day to day. After all, judges were elected on the proposal, in other words, judges elected on the proposal of Slovenia or Croatia, and we ourselves suggested that the Honorable Judge Vukas should not speak to the parties in the process, nor should the head of the arbitration court do so, and according to the sincere thanks to Sekolca, he did so. The entire duration of the scandal in the production and directing of the Slovenian political summit tried to embarrass the Croatian side for listening. And the Americans were listening to Angela Merkel and nothing to anyone. It's important we heard. Is it a greater sin to film a thief stealing from the theft itself? Every day from various levels in Slovenia, they say you can't come out of arbitration unilaterally. We can and must, because if we don't go out now, we might and must be accused of betraying national interests. If the politicians who conducted the negotiations, the politicians who made the decision to go into arbitration, those who gave up their hands in the Parliament, if they did it in good faith, if they felt that the sacrifice of horses would conquer the queen, we now know and we have no right to sin. We know that the arbitration agreement was a mistake, and now that mistake needs to be corrected. By consenting to the agreement, it is not unanimously voted but I believe that the exit from the agreement will raise all hands. The Slovenian prime minister tells us in Croatia not to debate political passions. And we don't upset them, we don't like them, we're worried that something like that could happen at all. We're in infidelity because the neighbors we're with did this to us, we want to, and we'll be in good relationships. We're not looking forward to it, but we are determined and proudly correcting what needs to be corrected. We are not left with any other option but to leave the arbitration proceedings and propose that the border dispute be resolved at the International Court in The Hague. Why are Slovenians running away from the International Court, why are the United Nations courts running away like the devil from the incense? Because they know they have no right, because they know the regulations that define international rights are on our side, because they know they want something that's ours, because they want what doesn't belong to them that Vladimir Ibler spoke of not so long ago. The extended territorial sea of Slovenia to the open sea is no different than by taking away parts of the national territory of the Republic of Slovenia and by joining the territory of Slovenia. In order to avoid theft or fraud, they were also right today to decide before the court on a border dispute? The one based solely on the right or the one involved and the politics as well as the politics involved? How many times they send us a message from Slovenia that Croatia cannot simply exit the arbitration, it takes them so many times to repeat that it allows us to the Vienna Convention. Article 60 should be initiated which clearly states that the exit from the international contract is justified if the conduct of one party is challenged by the essence, norm, spirit of the international contract. And just now the Slovenian side in the assistance of part of the judges has contributed to a significant injury to arbitration. It is not only contaminated by a judge from Slovenia who is already snowing last year, but has been contaminated by the whole process, the whole process, contaminated according to the copy of the incriminating conversation and other judges excluding Mr. Vukas. Trust has been lost, the legitimacy of this trial has been lost because if judges do not keep their rights at their disposal, they remain dangerous foreclosure weapons, fraud, lobbying, pressures and connections. Although the European Commission spokeswoman has said several times that the Commission is not mixed and cannot and must not interfere in the dispute between the two sovereign countries, yesterday a message has been sent that the European Commission is to continue arbitration. Why? Because the European Commission is said to want to protect European law. And the fact that international law has been violated, that one party has cheated in the process, that Croatia was being set up to take away its territory, does not bother the commission. Strange criteria and strange principles. And principles apply and only have real power if you stick to them and you don't find it convenient. We should behave in the way sovereign states behave, without a shred of vassalism and courtship. The issue of the economic belt should again be put on the agenda and as soon as possible move towards resolving border disputes with Serbia, which also wants to get what is not its, with BiH and Montenegro. One lesson with arbitration is probably enough. As I have already said, Croatia will come out of this scandal with its pure cheeks and raised heads. When so quickly and vigorously and meaningfully reacted from the government, he commended Prime Minister Milanovic and the Government, praise and to Mr Karamark, who was cooperative in the talks, and in proposals concretely and in support of the government issued. And finally something about friendship, what was trying to do to us, what was trying to make us Slovenian politicians and friends, friends don't work. On the other hand, when it comes to the interest of the state, friendship with another country is put aside. We were taught by Slovenian politicians, but not just them. But it is also time for the state, or those entrusted with state governance, to start making friendly relations with its own citizens, with its own people. And another burning issue with the Republic of Slovenia that needs to be resolved in relation to the Ljubljanska Banka where the Croatian state is creating friendly ties with its people should protect citizens who remain the Ljubljana Bank is making a great injustice. And finally, the club of independent leftists is of course for leaving the arbitration process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117380	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The IDS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Valter Boljunčić are at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117381	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, here we come today to discuss one process that we have been led to by dishonesty on the other hand. It is an arbitration procedure from the 2009 border between Croatia and Slovenia, but above all it is the sea border in the Savudrija vala. For us in Istria, especially as a regional party coming from Istria, this issue is extremely important. This issue is extremely important because of our people who live there, because of our fishermen whose sea in this valley means life, because of their centuries-old tradition, and that is why it is necessary to preserve the interest of these people, to preserve the interest of Istria and Croatia and to ensure that the border on which this arbitration agreement applies is determined in a fair and defined procedure. The Republic of Croatia has joined the arbitration process in good faith, expecting first and foremost respect for international law to establish the maritime border with Slovenia. The requirements laid down before Croatia were justified in that moment by the Croatian public, and of course the circumstances in which Croatia should have agreed to such arbitration are known. We recall that this was the main condition in order for Slovenia to remove the blockade of Croatian accession negotiations with the EU, and therefore this arbitration procedure must be seen in the wider light of the events in question. However, the arbitration process and the agreement Croatia has joined in good faith, the IDS has always wanted open issues to be implemented by respecting above all legal principles and with the desire to solve problems in a good neighbourly spirit. The deviation from this, the deviation from fair principles and from the principle of justice leads to the fact that the overall solution to the problem can end in a scandalous way and, consequently, we must warn of the facts that have led to the outcome lately. We believe that precisely because of the fact that the only way out is the termination of the arbitration agreement, and that, in principle, by upholding the rights and, above all, international maritime law, the issue of the border must be resolved at other instances, these may firstly be the Court of Maritime Law in Hamburg or the Court of International Law in The Hague. Why? Because Croatia and Slovenia are unfortunately neither the first nor the last states that have their differences, and that is exactly what these courts are designed to do. Croatia certainly cannot allow some unfair proceedings to take away part of its territorial waters because Slovenia can have a smooth passage, but through the Croatian sea to the open sea. Let us not forget that the connection to the open sea is then a further question is raised, it is a fishing belt, an economic belt, and in the end, the exploitation of the underground goods in the sea. The situation that has arisen lately, and above all, we are referring to the conduct of the Slovenian judge as well as representatives of the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs very much, significantly violates the fundamental settings of each court, which are the confidentiality of the proceedings and independence of the judges. In particular, it is a matter of unauthorized contact with that judge regarding the case with an employee of the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's about agreeing on how to influence other judges. Let's not forget that there are five judges and that the half majority is enough, so three judges, in order to pass the verdict. And it's as if an opinion is inadmissible. And also what might be most important is the subsequent submission of documents that are somehow faked by who wrote them and then we can ask ourselves about the content of these documents. With such facts, and considering the situation that was created in April of Slovenian Minister Erjavac's statements that he has information that there will be a verdict in December and that is very much in favour of Slovenia, and the resignation of Judge Sekolec and those employees of the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirm the truthfulness of these claims of unlawful action in court. As Croatia, we cannot afford to lose our territory, first of all here without a territorial sea, based on decisions made on false documents and proceedings that do not comply with the case law. Accordingly, the arbitration agreement must be terminated first and foremost. Why is it necessary, among other things, to break the arbitration procedure as far as possible? In one way, not to say "Rasomonic" style, it is possible that in the event of an unfavourable verdict for Croatia, and in favour of the Slovenian side, we can quite justifiably ask the question on what the result of such a verdict was. Is that based on fake documents, is it based on lobbying that's not allowed or on something else? On the other hand, if Slovenia had thought twice about it, you would have seen that if otherwise it were to go in favour of the Croatian side that we are looking for... in the middle of the bay whether judges might have reacted in such a way because under the pressure of this affair they felt the need to show that there was no effect on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think in such a situation other than us as the Croatian side that the Slovenian side will also see that it would best distance itself from the actions of its employees who are extremely incorrect and that it itself accepts the termination of the arbitration procedure. The arbitration court itself, if it wishes, as the European Commission stated yesterday, to preserve its integrity he should first because of his credibility in this but also in any future case show that such an action is completely unacceptable, should react sharply and he should accept the termination of this procedure himself because the simply stated procedure is so compromised and contaminated that any of its outcomes will always leave doubt whether it has come to him in a fair way. In such a one-off arbitration proceedings, of course, the issue of the border remains at the same time. The issue remains of the borders we had before 2009 and how it should be resolved. In keeping with the rules and principles of justice, there are a whole range of other institutions where this can be resolved, but the two most important ones are, therefore, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and as far as the maritime border itself is concerned, it is even more important to resolve this at the Maritime Court in Hamburg. If we consider Slovenian proceedings after the resignation of Judge Secolec and the appointment of Mr. Abraham as his representative, and he is the President of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, their change may have occurred in the opinion that the court in The Hague should work. Therefore, if they have already appointed the President of the Hague Court, they might also agree that the International Court of Justice in The Hague for Land, or for maritime law in Hamburg, be the court to set the limit. These courts have just been formed in a way to resolve the dispute over border agreements between states. Following all of this, the IDS club supports and asks the government to approach the contract termination process. We believe that the solution would be the most just to break the contract, and for all sides not only for Croatian but also for Slovenian, but also for what I said earlier and for the court itself if it wants to retain its credibility. The position of the IDS is that it is our duty and obligation to protect our national interests in which we must use all legitimate, legal and legitimate political means. The following steps should also be taken that will come after this, which is therefore the fact that the Government at the same time has the authority to... the opportunity to resolve the dispute in a fair and principled way using existing international institutions that have just been formed with that objective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so it's either the International Court of Justice in The Hague or even better the Maritime Court in Hamburg. The very content of the transcripts relating to any discussion between the judge and the representative of the ministry, or it is a matter of persuasion of other judges, also warns of a problem of such arbitration. In fact, in one global process that we have seen, there is a very great opportunity and an option to make up for some land. So you have a situation you'll get a little on land they'll get a lot at sea. It's totally unacceptable! Every inch of it must be determined by international law without compensation that we certainly cannot agree to as Croatia. We therefore give full support to the Government for rapid response. We believe that national interests, which is territory and land, are primarily one of the fundamental national interests of protection and we support the break-up of the agreement. And we continue to support it to benefit all political and legal ways to set a fair limit which we consider to be the jurisdiction of these courts. We think that the question, therefore, that will probably come around again now, is that I am stressing again our fishermen in Savudrija Vala, and that the Slovenian side has not done very well in this case, but we hope that she will see her mistake, too, and will see that getting out of arbitration is the best thing for everyone. Once again, we hope that this procedure, although the breakup process itself has been going on for a long time, should wait for a certain time for others to react, ultimately resulting in the termination of the arbitration agreement and that the solution will be found in a fair and principled manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117382	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President and Minister, Madam Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and fellow MPs today we are actually doing the same thing as we did in the Croatian Parliament on November 2, 2009. We conclude, at that time we have reached a conclusion which the Croatian Parliament has committed or granted permission to the Croatian government to sign the arbitration agreement and today we are asking the Government to proceed with the same procedure to come out of the arbitration agreement. And that's the legal framework. He is, of course, political, and after this political decision which I believe will be unanimous, of course, that he then moves into the great business of Croatia's government which we will empower to do this job in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian national, state-owned interests and end. Again in July, only 6 years later, so in July 2009, Croatian accession negotiations were really hopelessly blocked. The friendly and neighbouring Republic of Slovenia of 35 Croatian chapters and I remind you that Croatia had the most chapters, the most difficult negotiations, the longest negotiations with the criteria for opening and closing each chapter, so the friendly Slovenia has blocked all of our 14 chapters from 35. For what? Because of a bilateral issue that has not been resolved in 18 years. So the bilateral issue and the problem between the two countries is an unresolved border issue to the end. For 18 years, no one had been able to solve it. And that is why the Republic of Slovenia has blocked us hopelessly repeating our negotiations. What did we do then? What now. So best in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and then, of course, the best that we thought we could win the last big, biggest of many strategic goals of independence, and that is, after joining NATO, the Union of EU entry. Just in July 2009, the government I led began negotiations with the new one again, in a new composition with the Republic of Slovenia. The first meeting of Prime Minister Pahor and my associates was in Trakoscan on 31 July 2009. We worked in good faith, hard, hard to negotiate. The picture that was in front of the public was, of course, when it was really sweet and showing something that when the door closed, of course it wasn't real. They spoke both hard and painful when, when they were not simple. The Croatian side grinded every word, every word, every letter and every decimal. And I think that we succeeded in what was most important for Croatia, and that was that the arbitration court judges and works in accordance with international law, of course good neighbourly relations. The Republic of Slovenia has brought down both neighbourly relations and good neighbourly relations, but I dare say, of course, international law, has hit this which is completely clear from the transcripts and the footage of the rule of law, international law, and what is particularly important is one of the foundations of the EU's independence of the judiciary, the independence of the court and the independence of judges. We signed the arbitration agreement believing it was the best we could do. We listen today, of course, to many who say we should have gone to the International Court of Justice, that, of course, we should have, but we can't go to the International Court of Justice only one state in a dispute without another state in a dispute, in this case Slovenia agreed to it and without, of course, being an agreement. I believe that after this unloved episode that it will be and that it can actually be the only final solution after all, because it is really hard to believe that after this Croatian experience anyone would believe more in the possibility of a fair and just decision of the arbitration court. Negotiations, as I say, were difficult, of course, co-workers of mine and the Foreign Ministry worked on that for 24 hours. What we can now conclude after all the facts known to the court have no credibility, the court has no credibility, there is no reason to believe in any possible decision of such a court, so contaminated and torn down by the court, because it is behind it that the wicked, unauthorized and contrary to the agreement of the action. This was, of course, confirmed by their resignations, by their representative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but was confirmed in particular by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia who made a public statement several months ago, and now this was confirmed in which direction, following their additional lobbying that was not permitted, further inserting documents that could have been unauthorized. I will remind you of Article 10 of the Agreement which, without a doubt, publicly violated Foreign Minister Mr. Erjavec. Article 10, which states: "Both parties will refrain from any proceedings or statements that may intensify the dispute or compromise the work of the Court of Justice", it is clear that the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has compromised the work of the Court of Justice and I repeat, knocked down everything we have learned, brought down the rule of law, international law and independent justice or court. In addition to the integration into the arbitration agreement, the trial under international law was of particular importance to us, that all procedural deadlines, therefore, also in the assembly of the court and all other deadlines related to the submission of documents, etc. start from the moment the Republic of Croatia signs the accession treaty, so when it de facto becomes a member of the EU. And now it's analogous to the fact that the arbitration agreement is broken and we just have to confirm the deura. The lobbying I repeat was forbidden and we expected, so we agreed with the testimony of both the European Commission and the United States that judges would be honorable, competent. Our agreement between the two countries between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, I remind you, was not irrelevant, it was extremely important in January 2010. St. Father Benedict XVI, who is at one reception somewhere, appeared to me in January 2010, publicly said, and it was quite a surprise that he particularly praised the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, the two governments that have shown that international disputes are being resolved peacefully, how the border disputes between the two neighbouring countries are being resolved. And this should have been an encouragement to all those who worked on the European path of Croatia. In the arbitration agreement, I repeat, something that seems to be somehow falling out of the public's focus is a directive, and that is part of the agreement, that immediately after the agreement is signed, the Republic of Slovenia is raising all reserves related to Croatian accession negotiations. So the key to the deblocking of the negotiations, the key to the conclusion of the negotiations, was right in the arbitration agreement. In short, if we hadn't signed the arbitration agreement, if we hadn't agreed on a peaceful solution to the unresolved border issue, the Republic of Croatia would never have been a member, or would not have been an EU member by now. What happened after yesterday, so that the Republic of Slovenia, I do not want to meddle in the internal political matters and moves of the Republic of Slovenia, but the elections also say that it was done so that Slovenia violated its own regulations, but this is less important for us, the selection of a new arbitration officer for us has no meaning, because the arbitration agreement is irrevocably destroyed because the testimony or footage which no one in Slovenia, it is very interesting, has not disputed, and the resignations themselves, and the statements by Mr Erjavac himself speak very clearly that at least three judges, therefore the Slovenian representative, the President of the Court and another judge were in the illicit actions against the provisions of the arbitration agreement. And now that our friends in Slovenia have chosen a new arbiter of their new representative doesn't really mean anything to us, because it would seem like a collapsed house where the foundations are torn down you're trying to put a new roof. We have a new judge, yes, but unfortunately everything that has happened has shown that this court can no longer judge this dispute, that it cannot make a fair decision in accordance with international law. We now have a problem, not only because of the arbitration agreement but because the Slovenians broke it. And here I agree with what the minister said earlier, not a problem in the agreement, the problem is that our friends in Slovenia, that Slovenian politics tried in an unfair way, as it is said under the grains, do something for themselves precisely because I believe and I realized that if the arbitration agreement were respected in making a decision from the first to the last letter, from the first to the last point, then, of course, they would not be satisfied with the decision because their expectations were far higher. And of course we understand that the Republic of Slovenia and we understand both their government and government as a whole because all events after decisions and related to the Ljubljanska Banka and some other and economically, of course, that they probably partially pump frustrations, that after that there are some frustrations but none of it is possible for the Republic of Ljubljana through its history of independence or because of the Ljubljana Bank, nor because of the decision to go to the arbitration court is not to blame. And certainly in the end, we at our club think that we still need to build good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia, we will live here forever together, we will be neighbours here forever, and not European behavior I dare say that from 2009 and the blockade negotiates in 2009, unfortunately again it has shown its face, non-European behaviour. However, circumstances are very different. Croatia is now an equal member of the EU, we are asking for European behaviour from everyone, especially of course from our neighbours because trust is difficult to build but easily collapses. And let us therefore be calm and steady, let us be professional and finish today these political steps to say once again that we are an equal and sovereign member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117384	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117385	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today's extraordinary meeting of the Croatian Parliament is the result of knowledge of the dangers of national security and national and state interests that have been manifested in the attempt of the legal representatives of the Slovenian Republic to influence the decisions of the Court of Justice and the damages of the Republic of Croatia. We are here in order to respond decisively and appropriately as the most legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia to the attempt to threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, which in this case is undoubtedly the case. I would like to remind you that, following the lengthy attempts to define the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia in the spirit of good neighbourly relations in 2009, the Republic of Croatia concluded an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament. The agreement entrusted Croatia and Slovenia with the arbitration court with objectively and impartially establishing the course of borders between the two countries. The arbitration agreement has clearly established that the proceedings before the arbitration tribunal are confidential and that both parties will refrain from any proceedings or statements which may intensify the dispute or compromise the work of the arbitration tribunal. However, it has been shown that the Republic of Slovenia did not keep obligations under the signed arbitration agreement. Written information on attempts by the representative of the Republic of Slovenia on the final acquis of the arbitration court was received in the Croatian public with infidelity and astonishment. However, audio footage of talks by the representative of the Republic of Slovenia with the Court of Justice confirmed that an impact strategy was agreed on the other judges, that it was inadmissible and that the rules of arbitration were severely violated. It became clear that the procedure itself, and thus its result, was extremely compromised and that the irrevocable trust in the objectivity and impartiality of the work of the arbitration court was lost, and thus the possibility of a fair and fair solution to this arbitration procedure. The additional mistrust has contributed hastily, it could be said, panicically, to appoint a new arbitration officer so that the arbitration proceedings could continue as if nothing had happened, as if there had been no significant breach of the provisions of the arbitration agreement. Finally, the first severe violation of the rules of the arbitration procedure was followed by Slovenia's own parliamentary procedure during the hasty and panic election of the new arbitration panel. Obviously, either they don't understand or they don't want to understand that an attempted fraud has been discovered, that the court's arbitration panel has been caught in corruption, that it has established doubts about the objectivity and other judges and that trust in the work of this court is irretrievably lost. For this reason, today all the constituents of our country's government demonstrate determination and unity, let us take all legal, political and diplomatic measures and protect national and state interests. Yesterday's diplomatic phrases on understanding our concerns but at the same time on the existence of a way to resolve such concerns by continuing the arbitration process are already announcing the pressure to which we will be exposed. But we're that lesson seems we learned back in the '90s. There is no pressure stronger than the determination of a nation to fight for the truth and the protection of national interests threatened by such an insidious attempt at fraud. Regardless of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is sending us messages that we cannot get out of arbitration, regardless of what the arbitration court is acting as if something normal had happened which only immediately stopped his work, we must resolutely and by word and deed show that we will not go beyond the harsh violation of the provisions of the arbitration agreement and the principles of international trial. Our decisions today must not only be an expression of our determination to protect our interests but also have to confirm our quest to protect the principles of international law. Because this attempt to cheat was also an attempt to disabling and compromise international law. That is why today we must unanimously oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently and unconditionally initiate the procedure for the termination of the arbitration agreement. We have a foothold for such conduct both in the Constitution and in the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. As a member of the North Atlantic Union and the EU, the Republic of Croatia is committed to the values and principles on which these integrations rest and is rightly expected to adhere to the principles of the rule of law and independence of the judiciary. Let us only remember the painful negotiations to enter into full EU membership and meet the conditions, especially with regard to the rule of law and the functioning of the judiciary when individual Member States, including the Republic of Slovenia, were using the position of a member to find privileged solutions in relations with our country and the arbitration agreement which we will cancel today was an expression of the more equal position of Slovenia in relation to Croatia. However, today 2015 Croatia is a full member of the EU, and relations between members must rest on the principles of equality, equality and mutual respect. Therefore, both our friends and partners in the EU must understand that the RH moves are not an expression of our commitment, but are an expression of the protection of national and national interests, and are in the role of protecting the principles of international law and EU values as a community of civilised peoples and states. Our neighbours, too, should understand that they have compromised the arbitration agreement and the arbitration trial with their actions and that they have further potentiated mistrust in good neighbourly and friendly relations. In spite of this case, the Republic of Slovenia should continue its efforts to build good neighbourly and friendly relations not only with the Republic of Slovenia but with the rest of us neighbouring countries. The HDZ will certainly play a strong role in this, but good neighbourhood and cooperation must rest on mutual respect and respect for laws and legitimate interests. We have passed a difficult path of independence and independence, we have been cast out with bloody aggression, but with great sacrifices we have managed to preserve our independence and defend our territorial integrity. And that's why we're particularly sensitive to every inch of our country. We're not ready to trust these ad hoc arbitration anymore. We had the strength, determination, unity to create and defend Croatia in the 1990s, its independence and sovereignty will be known and we need to know how to protect both today and in the future. We'll never reach out for anyone else, but we have to let everyone know that in any way we won't let anyone just take away what's ours. This is why today, on behalf of the HDZ and HDZ Club, I call on you, together and resolutely, on behalf of the current and all future governments, to commit national and state-of-the-art interests to protect national and national interests, territorial integrity and sovereignty of our Croatia, in this particular case. Let our determination and unity that we will show by drawing the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament be a clear message to all the authorities of the state administration, especially to our diplomatic representatives who are tasked with making this high house a suitable way of presenting and explaining to our friends and allies both in the EU and the NATO alliance. I also call on you to achieve this degree of unity and unity that we will demonstrate in making a decision on the termination of the arbitration agreement in all other situations and cases essential to the prosperity and future of our people and our country. May the words of the creator of the modern Croatian state of Dr Franjo Tuđman "Always and all for Croatia, and our only and eternal Croatia for nothing" be an inspiration but a clear signal to all our neighbours that we will measure all our possible border differences with the same standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117386	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117387	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister said just before the Prime Minister left to be as cold as ice, as I'm going to say. And it's also time that gentlemen don't paint and tell the truth because this is a first-class topic, a political first-class topic. Today, we should correct the damage done to Croatia but also Istria by Racan-Drnovšek's parade, i.e. Kosor-Pahor's agreement or merger. But correcting the damage unfortunately will hardly be possible. The most embarrassing thing about it is that individuals in Istria were first courting Racan, then Sanader, and Kosor were even the leaders of the store. I am also offended by the fact that the County of Istria did not discuss these events and it is 300 square kilometers of concessions along the western coast of Istria. I live by the border, my dialect is like those in Koper, and I'm sure no one here in the Parliament or in Croatia knows the government better than I do. Most of the protest notes Ljubljana sent to Zagreb for what I did in Istria. I have never done everything I have done against Slovenia, never against the citizens of Slovenia, always for Istria either side of the border. I entered the Istrian brewery to work there, I must point out that Mr. Valentić helped me when the court, the Croatian court from there, forced us to sign concessions on Piran Bay because not all the seas could be Slovenian and not the pedal of ours, in this way we need to demonstrate sovereignty and in 2001, before that unfortunate Racan's parade with Mr. Dean Debyuh, I won't say that I had a dead fight with Racan, but we were fighting, I think we defended a hectare around Joras' house by explaining that it would destabilise the entire border of 670 kilometers and that we would raise half of Istria on our feet if he did. And we were able to talk him out of that one hectare. I told him then that the Slovenian authorities were fighting for theirs to the last inch of ours. We didn't talk about the sea, we talked about the valley next to St. Oorika, Škrile, Mlini, Buzini, Škodelini because on the basis of Badintiera everything was ours and vice versa, the salt, the airport were Slovenian, although catastrian we were under Pirano, which Tudjman wrote to us because in order to fight for that Castle in Mokrica he agreed to the principle of the Catastrian municipalities. To be clear, Croatia must, because of this contaminated agreement out of arbitration, immediately or as quickly as possible, and in no way can this agreement be consolidated, it cannot be strengthened. Clearly, we must do so according to the principles of international public law. We're a civilized country, we're not a horde, so these principles of going out should be respected. But now the question is, shall we defend our own? I would not once have said for this speaker to my brothers in Slovenia blood gave, land never. However, Racan-Drnovšek's paraphras and Kosor-Pahor's agreement for Croatia are like Damokl's sword over his head. We need a court order. These judges must not judge us, but Croatia will not be able to escape the arbitration and principles signed first by Racan, then Kosor. Let's let what the Slovenians say that this passage now corresponds to Croatia, clearly it does, but let's say here what's the point of the dispute. First of all, it's not those 2/3 or 3/4 bays, it's a direct concession over 166 square kilometers of sea plus this famous 26km and 5.4km long chimney, thus giving another 140km. Clearly in the arbitration decision, that chimney can be narrow, it can be wider. In Racan's agreement, the chimney is part of international waters, and it can become part of Slovenian waters in the arbitration agreement. That's what I said to add to the 166km of the territorial sea, and that's about 300km of square up the west coast of Istria. What is just as bad, by formulating the agreement that the arbitration court decides on a merger between Slovenia's contact with the open sea. For example, it is not required for the court to first consider whether Slovenia has the right to do so, the court's decision is being taken in advance because the court must act as the parties of Croatia and Slovenia have ordered it in the arbitration agreement. It's gentlemen the essence of Kosor-Pahor's agreement. We have ordered the court to determine in Croatian waters the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. It's our handiwork. In this way we lose touch with Italy, Istria too, our fishermen also, local self-government too. I've been begging for my own party joke, so don't wear it for 20 days until you sign that great-grandmother of yours. I ratted him out don't play and suggest to Sanader that he be a good boy to you bad boy when at the time Jansa was coming to power next to Joras' house, so was the war of incidents and when she could run blood. Sanader may have thought by that principle that the hand was shaking, that it would gain state space, but that was one hollow story, and that story that was told in Istria I'd say an empty story. Slovenians are talking about listening today, I'd like to be wrong, but our services for something so subtle are not capable. If our listeners had listened, the Slovenians would not have stepped down but would have simply denied everything and mocked. I think there are other services behind it, perhaps the Slovenians themselves are behind it all, and perhaps in this way they are trying to bring down the current power. Let's remember Mr. Antun Ropp, the Slovenian prime minister who "told the state's secret" because he said that through listening, they realized that Sanader and Jansa had negotiated cross-border incidents. That's why the former prime minister in Slovenia was even tried. This will buy us time, but spilled milk means these 300 square miles of sea along the western coast of Istria I'm afraid it will be very, very difficult to return to the bottle even though no one happier than me to make it happen. Until the decision is implemented the border of the middle, the 670km of land border has been reopened. As for the Slovenian judge, it is clear that he has agreed with the Slovenian government. Mr. Vukas and Mr. Ibler, along with Mr. Djuru Degan, Mr. Rudelfa was also very involved in the Croatian-Slovenian dispute by 2009, but I want to trust the prime minister that his role is maximumly correct and professional. Cases like this, respected gentlemen MPs, respected government gentlemen, never solve without local self-government again. For all of us, maybe not for all of us, Tito just showed us how to do it. He fought for everything he wanted. And what are we doing? We defend or sell or trade what he acquired. Honoring the NOB, honoring Tito without him or them today would not have discussed this matter here in the House. And the question arises, when we talk about leaks of information, are we going to react in the same way about dealing documents from the Constitutional Court or the DORH? And as far as 25 villages are concerned, I remind you once again... The commission, I don't know, back in '94, '95. I was at the late President Tudjman's in Pantovac, and then he told me well why you never said that the Slovenians took our 15 villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said no, Mr. President, according to church records, it's about 25. That, that, that (thumping on the table) he did. But at the same time I said Mr. President you in '55. We are above Rijeka, beneath the Klan, above Matulji we have received the Katastrian Municipality of Rupa and the Katastrian Municipality of Pasjak. He imagined himself, and at one point he said, "We won't talk about it anymore." But what do I mean by that example? That's when it went 1 meter in 1 meter. Today we give, and others don't give anything. Slovenians don't build roads, absolutely nothing. And that's not fair! Although I will be the first to admit that without them today, in Buzet it would be what it would be in Cicaria, we would have almost nothing. But it has to be thanked by one good neighbourly policy until the '80s. I said I live by the border and I'll tell the brothers we're with the Slovenes. But the good neighborhood isn't built by giving way to territory. This is how it stays the same as before, and I'm sure it'll work just as well as it's worked so far. But the border needs to be solved. In Istria, the border between Italy and Yugoslavia has been resolved since '45. Over '47. The '54 Paris Treaty, '75 London, means 30 years. I know it's not simple, but we have other disputes and we need to be persistent and I want to believe that this will be settled. If solving the borders cost someone a lot of money, it cost the Istrians. 140 thousand people of 186,000 leave all these Istrian spaces, and therefore, I do pray, above all, that you do nothing without local politics, and I pray that you do nothing down there without citizens, respecting history, respecting customs, respecting the graces of our people. And don't, once again I'll say, forget the point Racan-Cosor agreement is not two-thirds of the bay or one-quarter, three-quarters of the bay, it's nothing, but it draws when it comes out of the bay at the height of Savudrija horizontally breaks and I said there's a concession of 166 square kilometers, so outside the bay comes to concession plus... of those 140 square kilometers. And when it comes to boundaries, I know everyone will tell us everything we know, we remember how it was in 2001, the people who ran those disputes I saw it with Mr. Racan, he knew on land every pebble, every tree, every crossing, every house along the border. I know it's not easy disputes, it's easier to criticize, it's easier to plant. I know that even without giving up, nothing can be solved, but one can't give up everything, and the other can't give up anything. We have with Slovenia now or we have all the time 670 km on land plus this border at sea but I want to believe that as civilized people, as good neighbors, we will respect the way we have lived and how we once lived one day and administratively resolve these things, and until then we will probably live.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117388	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117389	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, dear colleagues and colleagues. This topic should be accessed with three points, with three starting points. First, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia are neighbouring and friendly countries, and the Croatian and Slovenian people are two friendly peoples. We're bound by historical ties, economic ties, cultural ties, human relationships. And no one has the right to make such a difference or question it. No one, on the Croatian side or on the Slovenian side. The second issue that needs to be discussed is that politics and governments are changing, they are passing, but the issue of the sovereignty of a country, the issue of the borders of a country, it remains long, decades, centuries, perhaps forever. Well, this is an example of that, too. Racan's government and Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's government have also gone through the issue and the government of Zoran Milanovic must now pass. And the third point that seems important to us is that this problem should be taken seriously and responsibly without any self-loathing in this regard, without trying to gain cheap political points and without too much fuss. If we don't start that way, I'm afraid we won't achieve national unity and we won't be effective. Following the breakdown of the common country, the limits should be established, identified and strengthened by those which were as AVNOJs established on land and those at sea which have never been established. It's to be done in a few ways. A bilateral agreement can seek the help of one of the permanent courts such as the Court of Justice in The Hague or the Court of Law in Hamburg and can be found in arbitration. The attempt to do so in agreement was made by Racan's government, so by trying to reach a quality solution for the Racan-Drnovšek agreement. It was 2001 and then the border resolution would go from the mouth of Dragonja in the middle of the bay and Slovenia would have access to international waters. The agreement, which was written in good faith, would not agree with counterpart Caina, nor any government, nor Racan's colleagues Kosor, nor this one, and I doubt any Croatian government could do so at all. It's unthinkable for me to do this to harm national interests. Each one of these governments did the best it could to solve this problem. The Racan-Drnovšek agreement has never been ratified in the Croatian Parliament because there are always those who think the agreement gives too much and gets too little. That's the deal, that's right, no one can get everything they want. So that first bilateral attempt failed. The insistence and commitment to find a solution in one of the permanent courts of either the Court of Justice, the International Court of Justice in The Hague or the Court of Law in Hamburg failed because this requires mutual will. So the neighbouring Slovenia had to agree on this and it did not. Well, there's nothing left for us but arbitration. In what circumstances? In circumstances where Slovenia has already been a member of the EU, and we wanted to do so, and we wanted to become one and in which European times were our priority. And what else could have been done than what the government of Jadranka Kosor did to the government of Jadranka, when Slovenians already refused to accept these international courts. And we supported her here, we supported it even though there were objections, and there were doubts that this arbitration would end because of that notion of a union that was mystical, unexplained, we don't know exactly what he meant in international law and what he could mean. But we didn't question good will, the drive to resolve this issue. Croatia also accepted this arbitration and believed that it could make a proper, fair solution acceptable to both sides, but above all a solution made in a legal arbitration procedure. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. The procedure has been compromised, there has been inadmissible contact between the court's representative and the arbitration judge. Now, we don't know to what extent the procedure itself has been contaminated because we see from those transcripts that the President of the Court is mentioned, mentioning lobbying with other judges, and we don't really know what the scope is, or what the reach of that compromise is. And that is why we have nothing else left, but absolutely nothing but in good faith again, respecting the fact and trying to save as much better relations as possible with the Republic of Slovenia from this arbitration process. Any further stay in it would be fatal to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. It does not mean anything that the Slovenian side has changed the member of the arbitration court, because those who have acted this way, so they did not act in their own interest, but in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, they did not compromise themselves, they compromised the entire arbitration court, and no matter how many of them have changed there now, how much the Slovenian side would want this procedure to correct the error that has been made, it is simply impossible. Now, here we stop two goals, safeguarding the national interests and interests of the Republic of Croatia measuredly, carefully, wisely. And secondly, achieve unity in that. Because if we fail to achieve this unity, we will not be effective on this international agenda either. Today we are neither government nor opposition nor independent today we are here to show that we demonstrate this unity in the defense of national interests. So any attempt to gain any political extra profit, any leap out of a joint car, every rivalry harms the Republic of Croatia and its interests. We believe in the SDP club that the government has acted extremely responsibly in this matter. First, despite objections to slow reaction, the government waited for the credibility of these talks that compromise the procedure itself. Secondly, the prime minister gathered representatives of the Croatian Parliament's clubs and at the meeting Monday, if we were notified, a consensus on further action was reached. Third, the text of the conclusion has been prepared which does not require any changes, which is precise and clear enough. And fourthly, the Croatian Parliament itself is acting in this debate with the ultimate responsibility of agreeing to come forward only on behalf of clubs, not to politicise here, not to try to promote our own parties or ourselves personally. So let us continue to be unique in this, to be responsible, to be patriotic, to stand behind the government of Zoran Milanovic, to support this government, to strengthen it because, with our uncontested support, it will be able to protect national interests in the best possible way. Every crack in the Parliament, every other behavior, every attempt to get out of this situation some other benefit must be understood as irresponsible behavior, behavior that harms national interests. The SDP will unreservedly support the proposed conclusions and calls and all other clubs to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117390	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117391	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening part of this debate of mine, I would like to say that it would be good to shed light on a saying by Winston Churchill, who in time said, "There are no permanent friends and our permanent enemies, there are only our constant interests." If that's true for us then that's true for all our neighbors. And when we start from that position, then we will certainly use much less words and puzzles that have gone into a good neighbourly relationship. We use what we actually are, we use the word neighbourly relations and we build quality, correct and concrete neighbourly relations. Let us not swear to good neighbourly relations by neglecting our interests. I remember on November 2, 2009, the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament when a decision on the accession to the arbitration agreement was made with 80 votes in favour, 45 abstentions and 9 votes against. 9 people who were against it was Mr. Pančić, Mrs. Vrbat, Mr. Vinkovic, Mr. Josipovic, Mr. Grubisic, Hrelja, Srb, Lesar, Kai's name and last name. My position then was against the fact that the agreement Racan-Drnovšek was never verified in the Croatian Parliament where there was doubt about the outcome of the arbitration agreement was also solidarity with the Savudrian fishermen. They were in an interesting story at the time. Their interest was at stake and one part of us from Istria was most solidarity with them not voting for this agreement. I don't want to raise, buy some political points, I'm proud of that attitude, even though I know it couldn't have been otherwise. In 2009, there was no other solution because then our dominant interest was to open up the deblockations of EU accession negotiations. It was an interest above all interests and we, when it was not possible to accept two courts, decided on this arbitration. But I must say, again, we must analyse the whole situation from the position of our Slovenian interests. When I talked about having to talk about neighbors and those good neighbourly relations, relations between countries are the same as relations with our neighbours. There's also jealousy, there's territorial pretenses, there's also badness, so we and our famous folk saying, "If a cow dies to my neighbor, they burn down the stables," so the neighbourly relations aren't as idyllic at the personal level as at the state level, but they are, therefore, if they have a negative side, they have a positive side. So we and our neighbors can always count on true solidarity in trouble, we can count on the realization of joint projects if our interests match. Therefore, we are now in this position and I would like to use the term "good neighbourly relations" much less in the future than we say real neighbourly relations based on interests and arguments. However, however, we must get out of this situation and the Club of Representatives of the HSU fully supports the proposal for a conclusion on the suspension of the arbitration agreement, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent as a proposal to the Assembly, and on the basis of consultations with representatives of the Clubs of Representatives. In good faith, Croatia signed an arbitration agreement to resolve the long-standing border dispute with Slovenia, and the actions of our neighbouring country's officials refer to a harsh violation of the polite standards of conduct that has led to this arbitration procedure completely losing its meaning, and the arbitration court has the legitimacy to make a decision based on international law and quality neighbourly relations, as stated in the agreement we are talking about. Croatia cannot participate in the work of a court that has lost credibility regardless of the legal, diplomatic carnivores of actors who advocate the continuation of the trial before the arbitration court. The club of HSU representatives regrets that this situation has taken place because it puts us all together in an extremely unpleasant position, given that Croatia has open border issues with other neighbouring countries, and the attempt by the Slovenian side to influence the judges of the arbitration court requires that we ask ourselves a legitimate question whether international arbitration is a quality instrument for resolving border agreements? Let us remember when the arbitration agreement was signed in 2009 unblocked Croatian negotiations and allowed Croatia to join the EU. Today, the situation is different, Croatia is a full member of the EU and Slovenia does not have such strong, large blackmail potential as it had at the time. It's a fact that goes in our favor and we have to use it. The key to the solution of this dispute in the opinion of our club lies in the diplomatic activities of our government whose mission is to introduce the world to our arguments so that this case does not happen again to us and that Croatian territory would not force and fraud to come under the control of Slovenia or tomorrow in another case of another state. ... Yes, it was annexed by the Slovenian Parliament's decision on a part of Croatian territory. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the facts. And there are territorial claims from the Republic of Slovenia towards that part, according to several parts of Croatian territory. There's no dilemma, it's just as legitimate. It's their interest. We must put our interest in them. And I'm glad that we have strengthened our interest today with an articulate, clear, unequivocally and that we are all standing together behind that interest of ours. I live in a pietful, peaceful and tolerant Istria whose territory is the largest part of this dispute, but we must by no means, with arguments and with the ferocity to defend our attitudes, we cannot be a stumbling block in the neighbouring relations of two friendly peoples, two peoples who are historically leaning on each other, who have such wonderful relations with each other. That is why I am extremely pleased that at least so far we have not heard nationalist trumpets and calls for radicalisation of relations with Slovenia neither here nor in Slovenia, which I thank and the opposition in the Croatian Parliament that there is no safe use here of payphones to obtain political points and that they really make it easier, they are at the height of the task and facilitate problem solving. Of course, I also appreciate what Mrs. Jadranka Kosor said that our neighbouring, friendly state of the Republic of Slovenia has its own problems and personally bothers me when they want to come out of their frustrations by creating a special identity. It bothers me very much that they also have a variety of black grapes that can't be worn and that can't be done, wine can be registered but not grape varieties. But that's what they put in the procedure. So if we could talk honestly and honestly, we could work out a lot. For all reason, we at the Club of Representatives of the HSU are pleased because all important political entities are complex in the defence of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The gravity of the Slovenian colleagues' violations has united the entire political scene in Croatia and for the future we must not give in to any pressure because justice is on our side. We must not give up because relations between countries that are the main actors of international law must not and cannot be based on fraud and suspicious agreements under the table. If I were to suffer injustice today, it could become a law, and a fraud could be a legitimate tool in fulfilling someone's interests. If such a principle prevails in international law and interstate relations, we do not have a bright future for us or for the world. I therefore call on Slovenian colleagues to sit at the table and agree as real partners on how we will address this problem in order to allow our children to deal with some better and better quality issues than this border. Also, allow me to make an appeal to the arbitration court to withdraw from the proceedings, thus showing readiness for a constructive solution to the problem. In the event of continuing the work of this court and making a decision that Croatia will not be able to take because it will not take part in the same arbitration court's work, the Court will put itself in an extremely uncomfortable position and will not want to have to accept responsibility for the instability that will arise in Croatia and Slovenia's relations. Not to mention the other disputes that are being settled by arbitration, the results of which will be thrown into shadow of doubt over the affair we are witnessing. We believe this is about an isolated incident that will not disrupt the good relations between the citizens of Croatia and Slovenia. I am pleased that my colleague in the Croatian Parliament, the president of the related committee, was resting on Korčula and that he sent a text message and that he regretted the same thing about all this. So we believe this will be an isolated incident and therefore we support our government in finding the best diplomatic solutions so that once and for all this border problem will remain behind us. Croatia opted for co-operation and dialogue in 2009 and believed in what it signed. That is why I am proud and invite all the actors involved, including our Slovenian neighbours, to a rational approach and open dialogue. And to us, I still want perseverance, unity and wisdom in decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117392	We continue with the individual debate of Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117393	Dear President, I will only say three things in mind that I did not participate in the agreement of clubs and did not participate in the agreement of political parties. And those three things come down to three words, the first word is determination and speed. In this case, it is about the need to show uniqueness and to show determination. In this sense, the fact that the Croatian side has made no mistake, nor has it violated the good faith, has been violated by the Slovenian side. The judiciary rests on trust, arbitration even more because arbitration is not only tried on the basis of rights but also requires a fair solution. Some people here talked about lobbying, and then lobbying can't be, and not only was there, but it was worse than that. How would you assess the fact that an agent, a representative, a lawyer of the Slovenian government, in a conversation with a Slovenian judge offers to just change her name on paper and to show it as his own? What would that be in internal law if a lawyer sent a verdict to a judge and told you to just sign and peel the press? If that were fair, if such a decision could be taken by the parties who wanted arbitration, it would not. And I join all those who have pointed out that there has been a big mistake and that it is not to be corrected by the continuation of arbitration and not by any measures that draw attention from the basic fact which is that a mistake has been made and that the repairs are gone. The second thing, I am solidarity with many who have talked today about an important fact, which is that Croatia not only wants to end arbitration but wants to continue the peaceful process of resolving border problems. In this regard, the requirement that we seek that the international court resolves this, one of the two mentioned international courts, is a legitimate and peaceful request that should be supported by every neutral party, and I expect it from all of our friends and associates in the EU. Avoiding this would lead to a constant perpetuation of an unnecessaryly politicised problem. Unnecessarily because it shows here that the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia should also affect Croatia and Slovenia's relations as a state. That's not true. A peaceful solution means that we want good neighbors, that we are aware of the fact that we will live next to each other hopefully in peace, hopefully without unnecessary politicisation and unnecessary cause of incidents. And that's what happened in the past. I don't want that to happen again and welcome the Croatian policy that requires it. And third, it is a question of relations between the Croatian and Slovenian people. I am free to remind myself of the fact that no incident has occurred despite a very sharp situation, that Slovenians are welcome in Croatia right now, that they are enjoying Croatia and should remain that way. Croatia's economy, the economy has invested considerable funds in Slovenia and vice versa, the Slovenians have considerable assets in Croatia, which connects us interestingly but also shows that the relationship and common life on the same ground should continue. Let me finish by saying that despite everything we could do and fix, I will vote and I welcome this initiative by the Croatian government to initiate the procedure for the end of the agreement, but that is not all, we cannot wait for months for this issue to actually fall to the bottom, out of the priorities of this government. This is a priority issue, and we need to use all the means to interpret our relations with other countries, and this is also the ministry's task, we explain our position and explain our wish, the termination of the arbitration agreement should be interpreted as a wish for a fair solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117394	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the first vice-president, Mrs Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117395	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and I would like to thank all the clubs and individuals who participated in today's debate. I'll just say a few things definitively and maybe a few things about the steps that follow us. So we found ourselves in this situation after a de facto transcript of some phone conversations, when transcripts were published in Serbian media, then transferred to Croatian media. What I said is not a good solution or a happy situation for Croatia. We have accepted the resolution of the issue of borders through the arbitration agreement, we have done absolutely legitimate artis in the framework of a defined arbitration agreement, including the preparation of a submission to the Slovenian submission, the preparation of a large body of materials that we have presented to the court, so absolutely believing in the procedure that will lead to the resolution and definition of the issue of the distinction between Croatia and Slovenia, it is in our interest, we want to resolve it and we have done it within this agreement. The first indication that something was wrong not with the agreement but rather with the breach of the agreement, so the first indication that there might be some breach of the agreement was made in Slovenian Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac's statements on his knowledge of possible sources of the outcome, and we responded to this by letter to our ad hoc arbitration and by letter to the European Commission because the European Commission was in some way an intermediary in defining this arbitration agreement when it came to it. What was proved and finally proved to be these first published transcripts, and then audio recordings in Serbian media and then in Croatian media, proved that the whole process was contaminated or that it was not only a problem in the conduct of the Slovenian judge and Slovenian representative Mrs Drennik, but rather a problem in the case, so the material based on which the arbitration would now be based if the decision was to continue, because in this case, through the action of the Slovenian judge and the Slovenian representative was inserted material that should not be there. And today no one can tell the difference between what's legal and legitimate in that material, and what's subsequently inserted through these two people's actions. So the subject, no matter what the judges may be, assuming that the judges are the best judges of the arbiters, the best in the world itself the object is contaminated with the additions that are in it that shouldn't be there. And that's our reason, that's our main reason why we as Government of Stand, but of course we came first here and for this debate and for the position of the Croatian Parliament, the view that we need to get out of this arbitration and end it. Not because the agreement is bad, but because the agreement was violated in a way that contaminated the subject itself, regardless of the status of individual judges, so it contaminated the material based on the decision-making process. Croatia, of course, is in the interest of solving its open issues with its neighbours and solving them and having all the tasks ahead of us, which is to definitely define borders with all neighbours. We have at this time a temporary regime of demarcation with Montenegro, we have an agreement on the border with BiH that has been signed, but has not been ratified and applied since the day of signature, so since 1999. With Serbia, we have a Protocol on the principles of establishing borders and the conclusion of an agreement on the border and, of course, with Italy, we have a defined limit at sea to the Exceptional Agreements and the demarcation of the epicontinental belt that comes from '68. In this case, the government was and the state was really interested in solving this problem through the mechanism that we agreed on. When it was unequivocally established and never disproved from either the partner or the Slovenian side that what was published was true, the government reacted exactly as the speed should be and in accordance with the respect of the procedure without skipping any step, without any nervous reaction or falling into the nationalist fever. The government reacted in line with the defined steps of the procedure, and that means in good faith we worked, unfortunately that good faith has shown that on the other hand it was done differently or that the agreement was not good enough to guarantee the achievement of the desired goals, when it was broken we respond in accordance with the defined steps. We do not have a dispute here or a struggle with Slovenia in principle, we have tried through arbitration to resolve the issue of the border, it has proved unfortunately that it is not possible in this arbitration and we will have to look further, of course we will have to look further. So, in fact, the International Court of Justice, which is mentioned here by the International Court of Justice, of course, the International Court of Law of the Sea has a difficulty in dealing only with the border at sea, and not with the border on land, the International Court of Justice, in my opinion, and in our opinion, is the only instance that we will be able to address in the end. However, both sides need the consent of both institutions. Therefore, Croatia cannot go alone to any of these international courts to resolve the issue of borders, but both Croatia and Slovenia must agree. As far as lobbying is concerned, which in our policy often replaces foreign policy, lobbying ends exactly like this, lobbying may be in some situations a job of lower officials at the foreign ministry, but what is foreign policy is a clear attitude, a clear vision and clear information. And that is what Croatia is doing and Croatia will continue to work. And lobbying is not foreign policy, and it has led Slovenia to this position that I am truly sorry it was found because I am sure that the vast majority of citizens of Slovenia would not like to be lobbyed but would like normal politics to be conducted and that today we are going normally legitimately and legally through this arbitration process. A clear attitude and keeping rules and keeping words is always the best approach and best policy and we will continue to stick to it. From the debate we have heard here, of course Parliament will declare itself and Parliament will vote, but according to what I have heard very carefully, Croatia should end its participation in this concrete arbitration agreement and procedure in these circumstances. Question is, what next? So, based on what is said here today, the Croatian Government will make a decision tomorrow and will notify the Republic of Slovenia of that decision and will begin the process of ending or leaving this arbitration procedure. It should not be fooled that it will come upon general enthusiasm. Everyone is happy when a problem is solved, no one is particularly interested in details. So it is a procedure that has been defined by the Commission, with the help of different countries, and everyone would have preferred that this had not happened, but once it has happened, it would have been best to continue somehow as if it hadn't happened and there we have to be absolutely clear attitude and cold head and we prefer that it didn't happen, but it has happened and we will defend our position, defend as normal every other country in full consciousness that Croatia and Slovenia still have this problem ahead of them, and that is that they have to solve the issue of the border. It's important because of two countries, it's especially important, I would say, because of those Istrian fishermen, the Žumbercans, the Međimurci and the Premuracs and all the others who live by the border, but it's also important for the two countries. That's what we should continue on. It's very likely that the institution that remains for us is the International Court of Justice. It will probably take some time for this to happen, and it is very likely that the only thing we can fully rely on after this experience is making these decisions on the basis of international law. I thank you and we will act in accordance with the conclusion that Parliament makes. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117396	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote at 13:30. Please, all colleagues and colleagues, meet me here. Thank you. It's 12.59 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-29-0.u117397	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:35 A.M.]] This conclusion requires 2/3 MPs, all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Article 258. Rules of Procedure and Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm going to read the text of the conclusion. "On the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the debates held on the events related to the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the extraordinary session of 29 July 2015 concluded the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the termination of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed on 4 November 2009. The Croatian Parliament undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate a procedure for the termination of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed in Stockholm on 4 November 2009 which has been in force since 29 November 2010 due to a significant violation of their provisions by the Republic of Slovenia." Please honorary colleagues and esteemed fellow MPs to join the decision-making process. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 141 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against voices is a proposed conclusion in the text as I just read it. Thank you very much. This concluded the debate on the proposal for an act and concluded the session. I want you to continue your activities, those involved in political activities related to party activity, the rest of those on vacation and see each other in good shape at the beginning of the autumn session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13.39 p.m.
