ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99189	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda and on the announced agenda point. This is: - Proposal for a national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014. - 2016. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and Social Policy, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Sinisha Varga. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99190	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The National Plan is one of the key, planned and operational documents foreseen by the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020. The national plan's strategic starting points are already a national strategy, a project plan by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures 2014-2016, and programming documents for the EU programming period 2014-2020. Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, this is the first operational document to develop hospitals. It represents one of the long-term reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at eliminating the accumulated shortcomings in the functioning of the hospital health system. The key holders of the national plan is the Ministry of Health who is proposing a document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where it has already been accepted and is represented by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia where I present it to you today. In addition to the Ministry of Health as the holder of all activities, the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and Social Care, as well as the health institutions themselves, are part of the production and implementation of the National Plan. The creation of a national plan also used consulting services on the basis of a public international tender financed by the World Bank loan. The national plan includes 31 hospital health care facilities and includes clinical hospitals, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals whose founders are local, regional and regional self-government units. These include providing the most complex forms of health services, hiring the highest number of health and non-healthy workers, having the highest number of treated patients and ultimately having the highest share of the total costs of the health system. The national plan is based on two key principles, the principle of subsidiarity and functional integration. According to the principle of subsidiarity, health problems should be addressed at the lowest level of healthcare at which this is possible. The principle of functional integration involves hospital co-operation at levels where necessary in order to achieve the defined objectives set out in the national plan. And they are: to increase the availability of hospital healthcare, improve the quality and efficiency of hospital services, increase efficiency and streamline the costs of operations of hospital institutions. The objectives of the national plan are achieved with concrete specific measures and these are: reduction of the acute hospital treatment rate by 10%, reduction of the average bed filling rate to 80-85% depending on activity, reduction of hospital treatment length, depending on activity and institution by 10 to 40%, increase in the number of emergency services by a minimum of 10%, and increase in the number of daily hospital and day surgery cases by a minimum of 10%. Furthermore, it is important to point out that the national plan defines the national register of healthcare providers and is established and updated by the Ministry of Health. In the national register, along with the basic data on the establishment, its founder, structure, contact, responsible persons, approved and contracted activities, the maximum number of acute beds, pedestals, chairs in the daily hospitals, standings in extended and long-term health care and beds with the purpose of chronic treatment and palitative care will be defined. The number of beds in the national register is the basis for contracting hospitals with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and all values are subject to changes based on the defined objectives of the national plan. By updating the national register, they will perform continuously and minimally before any agreement with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I note that the update of the national register will also use local self-government data through public health services reports to adapt the national registry to the epidemiological characteristics of the population gravitating a particular health institution. The implementation of the national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 to 2016 reduces the trend in health care costs. This trail estimated that if only 15 diagnostic treatment procedures were performed in 2013 instead of acute hospital treatment in the daily hospital, the same would result in a reduction in the number of days of hospital treatment by 101 thousand 561 and a lower medical system costs of more than 35 million kuna. The analysis of the first 6 months in 2014 speaks of a further 53,000 and 22 extra days of acute hospital treatment and a potential cost reduction of another 18.5 million kuna. So, we can talk about reducing the costs for the same range of health services in 2015 to act on the principle of subsidiarity by around 35.5 million kuna and further projection by reducing 50 million kuna for 2016, related to functional integration. All this bearing in mind the filling of the bed from 80 to 85% but also with an increase in the costs of specialist consular health care by 7.5% in 2016. There is a long series of additional indirect financial effects which at this time cannot be accurately quantified although it is unequivocal that they will occur and will affect fiscal results, the results of which the health system will achieve in the coming years covered by the national plan. In line with the principle of subsidiarity, these were primarily savings resulting from the optimization of resources per patient, by changing the mode of providing health services. Acute treatment is the most expensive variant of patient treatment, so by moving those who can move to daily hospitals or prolonged treatment facilities other than higher availability and quality, significant financial savings are achieved on an individual basis. For example, the treatment of patients in daily hospitals instead of in acute facilities with an increase in the number of daily procedures from 10% to the end of 2016 can result in 50% savings for these individual cases. However, relative ratios should be taken into account because the turnover of patients and the number of services could be increased and a greater number of services would reduce the potential positive fiscal impact but would achieve the fundamental principles of improving the quality and availability of healthcare defined in the national plan. Functional integration expects a lower cost for the consumption of materials, medicines, diagnostic and anaesthesia, etc. A shorter stay of patients in the hospital will reduce the possibility of hospital infections and thus the consumption of expensive spare antibiotics. Unnecessary construction facilities and facilities will be re-designed for the needs of other resistors and will also reduce hospital maintenance costs. Functional integration among other things will reduce the number of extra hours paid and bear in mind that one of the largest health costs is paid. It also has a positive financial impact that cannot be accurately assessed because it depends on the number of functional integrated activities. We are aware of the accumulated shortcomings in the functioning of the hospital health system, which include providing the most complex forms of health services, which employ the largest number of health and health workers, who have the highest number of treated patients and, consequently, have the highest share in the overall costs of the health system. I invite you to accept this first operational document of hospital development with the aim of increasing the availability of hospital health care, improving the quality and efficiency of hospital services and increasing the efficiency and rationalisation of the costs of operations of hospital institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99191	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have reports of replicas. Honorable representative, vice president of the House, Željko Reiner, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99192	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. And this proposal of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, etc., is being traced unfortunately by other documents produced by this government, documents that are incredibly superficial, documents that do not guarantee that anything from them will be implemented. This is best seen from a whole series of elements starting with the title, which states that it is the period 2014 to 2016. Well, couldn't they at least make it right because the proposal came to the Parliament on November 26th last year. Therefore, at the very least it could have been written in 2015 to 2017, let's say that. Unfortunately, it is a document that serves itself, which serves to throw into the eyes of the public that will be done and actually will not and cannot do anything in this way because there is not a single concrete measure here that guarantees that what is actually shown in this wish list will be realized. Reduce the rate of hospital treatment by 10%. Based on what? Why not 15%? Why not 20%? And why not maybe 5%? There's nothing this document says about it. Reduce the length of hospital treatment by 10 to 40%. Why not 5%? Why not 50%? There's no such thing in this document either. Increase the number of daily hospital cases and day-to-day surgery by 10%. In what way? At this time, almost no Croatian hospital has a fundamental assumption that daily hospitals, nor spatial hospitals, should therefore be invested in significant resources to accommodate even human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99193	Thank you very much, Vice President. Replication response, Honored Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99194	Your Honor, I thank you for your comments, but I do not accept them for the very reason it is. It is a strategic document that speaks extremely highly of the principles that are important for the development of hospital health care in the Republic of Croatia. Such a document is absolutely necessary as a prerequisite for achieving what has already been accepted in Brussels in the form of operational plans where for the development of day-to-day surgery, daily hospitals we have booked and soon as this document is adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, an application begins and action and operational plans are developed for more than 50 million kuna, directly from the operational plans of the European Union and structural funds enter the Croatian hospitals. So the one where infrastructure or equipment is missing or even personnel or knowledge about the functioning of daily hospitals and day surgery is immediately in the spring of 2015. The necessity and prerequisite is thus the adoption of this strategic document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99195	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99196	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you claim that this National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals will aim at subsidiarity and functional integration, which is probably addressed to a master plan that you also failed to do, not to you but also to the former minister, which clearly shows that the political takeover of hospitals, especially general hospitals, county hospitals, is a failed investment in which nothing important or concrete has happened, but functional integration probably means reducing the department from some 15 to 4 that will be functional. Well, of course it's an empty story that doesn't hold water, which clearly shows in the financial indicators when you talk about it will be saved, around, so I think in the National Plan everything that's going on, how it's going to be done, what's going to happen. You know the limits themselves, the value of the points are not equal in the Republic of Croatia. You know yourself that there are a lot of other problems, and especially with regard to ownership in general hospitals where... you will not have the consent of the County Assembly to further conduct such a political cleanup in general hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99197	Honorable Minister Sinisha Varga, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99198	Thank you. If we're going to talk about the Samantha, then it's about the World Bank program and project titled masterplan being done and completed. There's been a lot of talk about it in the media. The basic document called masterplan is the basis for writing this National Plan. We do not use the Masterplan but use the name of the national plan, they are almost identical in their principles and in their calculations and components of the national plan there are detailed activities within the time limits to do so. As regards the mergers themselves, the department is one part which has been carried out as an component of the rehabilitation of health institutions, not as an integral part of the implementation of the National Plan. The functional integration of hospitals is not related to rehabilitation although it is also done in both cases of saving on irregular consumption in the Croatian health system, and functional integration is for the concentration of workers in centres of excellence or in that form and the extent that activity can be uninterrupted without excessive burden on healthcare professionals with an extremely high number of overtime hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99199	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99200	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have therefore renamed the master plan as a national plan. In fact, it's the same thing, so I guess what minister comes by and renames these plans for the development of clinical hospital centers. Namely, we never got here nor did you deliver a report on the results of the hospital's integration. We have an example of Slavonic boat and Nova Gradiška, Požega and Pakrac, etc. I wonder how much they're in the dubiosis, whether they've reduced the dubiosis and two of my close hospitals, and what are the results of that so-called. integration. When you talk and when you plan something on hospital centres, general hospitals, etc., then you have to know that buildings are 10% of the value of the system, 20% is equipment, and 70% is staff. On this basis I ask you here, and I also asked you this question at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, why we do not discuss with this material the Law of Medicine which is in preparation, which the Croatian Medical Chamber made observations and delivered to you and you know about it, and it will be very important how the work of the doctor and the staff of the rest of the hospital will be deployed precisely by the Law of Medicine. You know 800 doctors left Croatia for last year's score. Furthermore, why don't we tie this to the Law on the Law of Patients who are waiting for the novel, or I don't know what, because it's absolutely certain that if this national plan is implemented and implemented in the right of patients, as well as in the rights and obligations of doctors, whether they are material rights of doctors or in relation to some other rights they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99201	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99202	I'm thanking you. Given that today is the World Day of Patients, we will start with patients, for the reason why we are doing this job at all, and that is to see the problem of today's way and inherited over many years and not over 20 years, but over 40, 50 years, the Croatian health system has its own mode of work that let's say it was lagging behind from the time when the major diseases were diphtheria, typhoid, sexually transmitted diseases as the main causes of death. Now we have a situation where we have chronic non-infectious diseases that require a very different treatment mode than before. For this reason, we made some changes back in 2013 in the functioning of primary health care where doctors and nurses in primary health care made a significant turnaround in the way they treated their patients. As far as hospital healthcare is concerned, we now have a situation that the master plan that the Republic of Croatia carried out in the form of a World Bank project during 2012 and the thirteenth year is one exercise which, for example, all the countries that entered the EU in 2004 still did so in 2003 and 2004. Croatia has been there for almost 10 years with this exercise to do so. And I always stress that this national plan is an exercise that needs to be done periodically, at least every 10 years in order to continuously determine what capacities are needed according to the epidemiological picture, so that we can shorten waiting lists, so that we can shorten unnecessary stays in the departments. Because every minute you stay on, overstaying in the hospital ward, in hospitals dramatically increases the possibility of infection from some hospital infection and we want to bring it down to that hospital stay to the necessary minimum. That way, we release resources, free money, so we can make a better health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99203	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Appreciating the efforts of anyone who wants to do good things in our health care, anyone normal will support it. However, we can have no idea how many master plans, I don't know how many national plans if we have a situation like we unfortunately have at the Clinical Hospital Centre in Osijek no national plan can repair the damage it does there, so the management of the Clinical Hospital Center. Every problem has a name and a last name and we need to talk about it openly. You can have 10 master plans or national plans in Osijek at the Clinical Hospital Center, but while being run by Vladimir Borzan, the incompetent person who performs the schizophrenic and such dictatorship would say proletariats over doctors and at his clinic, but also in the entire hospital until then no master plan or national plan will save the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek from the ruin it leads to. I'm saying, you should say the name and last name because of Vladimir Borzan, the SDP presidency's wife, Mrs. Borzan, who has nothing to do with it, but so much has been raped by a man, that it's almost impossible to believe. Because of him, more than a dozen doctors went to you because of him from the clinical hospital center of Osijek. The nurses are leaving. The nurses are leaving. You have a situation where you try to save, I see. You tried to change the Sanitation Council, and it's all fine, but you left again as a key person who runs the Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek from the shadows. I'll still have a chance to talk about it. And I want to talk in a way that everyone understands and knows who it's about. It's not everyone's fault, it's in some people's names and names that we're going to talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99205	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99206	These personal connotations on the person in Osijek will not address it here, but the Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek is an extremely important factor in the Croatian health system. And when we had the current hour last time we talked about the Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek as an extremely important hospital because it's not just a clinical hospital, a state-level hospital, but it's a hospital that's extremely important both as a local hospital and as a regional hospital and as a clinical hospital. So it is important for us both in Rijeka and Split and in Osijek the way these hospitals are arranged and their modality and way of working is very well defined through this National Plan. And I believe that you will soon see positive changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99207	Dear colleague of the representative Sunchana Glavak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, among other things, you said that for the implementation of the National Plan that you are proposing responsible directors, i.e. financial managers, so please tell me at the county hospital in Čakovec we already have a third sanaci manager, so I don't know which one will then be responsible for this implementation. But what you said, and what sounded pretty good here, I'm asking you how you're going to do it. Among other things, you believe functional integration will lead to a decrease, for example in overtime. So according to this structure that is proposed how you will save if you send our doctor from the County Hospital to Čakovec, for example, to Ogulin. Shouldn't his travel expenses be paid? Well, isn't that actually going to collect the whole story? So, we at HDZ were saying that we're not in favour of abolishing hospitals. However, we have also warned that so far the Sanitation Councils have not shown any good. How will all of this ultimately work? Haven't you thought about maybe rationalisation starts in the city of Zagreb? How come, for example, we have two birthplaces for 200 meters? So that something can be saved. So, it's quite contradictory that everything you're saying and I'm actually interested in what we haven't heard, and that's how much of a debt in health care with December 31st 2014 if you can bring this data out, and why it's been done since 2011 at the Health and Accreditation Agency and social care institutions, so we have and we've adopted standards for accreditation, but so far nothing has been done except increase the number of people in that agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99209	Thank you, too. Replication response, Honored Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99210	Thank you. In particular, Čakovec, the fact is that there has been a shift, on a personal request has actually been resigned by the former renaissance manager and now we have a new administrator who is an economist and a very good knower of how to consolidate the issue of hospitals that have a certain step and a difference between income and expenditure. What should be pointed out is that functional hospital merger is at the level of co-operation of agreements and cooperation. There's no coercion, there's no decree to force anyone to do anything. However, any rescheduling director or director of each health institution is obliged, since it is a document adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, to comply with its provisions. When it comes to the very notion of functional merger, it's on a regional basis. The regional basis it is defined for each hospital in particular with which hospitals are the perspective of its functional merger. So, Čakovec is at the level of northern and north-east Croatia. When we talk about Čakovec then there is Varazdin, Koprivnica, Bjelovar and then towards Zagreb and thus we made a linear connection between local hospitals, regional hospitals and KBC. As far as the debt of the Croatian hospital health system is concerned, it is at a level of approximately 1.2 billion kuna, significantly reduced compared to past periods. In fact, you know very well that the Resuscitation Act was just adopted for the very reason that it was financially shown from 2011 to 2012 in particular that the system of health in plus 200 million kuna was actually in a minus 7.6 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99211	Thank you very much, Minister. There will be opportunities. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, committees want? Yeah. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99212	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. At its 56th session, the Health and Social Policy Committee discussed the proposal of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. In his presentation, he pointed out what we heard today, but let us reiterate the importance of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals, which is seen primarily in increasing the availability of healthcare, improving the quality and efficiency of the health system, and increasing the efficiency and reduction of hospital operating costs. The purpose of the national plan is to define in detail the future structure and necessary capacities of the hospital system, significantly modify the current model of providing health care in the Republic of Croatia and bring it into line with the best contemporary practice of the EU. According to the national plan, it wants to reduce the rate of acute hospital treatment by 10%, lead to an optimal level of 80 to 85%, of course depending on activity, reduce the length of hospital treatment by 10 to 40%, and increase the number of emergency services by a minimum of 10% and daily hospital cases and surgery by a minimum of 10%. Some members of the board expressed doubts about the planned increase in medical services, the development of the daily hospital, especially day-to-day surgery, as they stressed the lack of funds for investment in the health system in general. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn attention to the European Structural and Investment Funds and to the adoption of operational programmes of which a significant amount is foreseen for the daily hospitals, creating the basis for the implementation of the measures envisaged. The majority of committee members in the debate supported the application of day-to-day hospital modes with a reduction in acute stationary capacity, expecting a final outcome with a reduction in the waiting list of increased quality and cost rationalisation. As the current comprehensive assessment of the situation and analysis of the existing hospital network has been highlighted, it has shown that it is not sufficiently adapted to the needs of the population and economic opportunities, and the current management systems are becoming obsolete and long-term unsustainable. The National Plan should therefore constitute an operational document for future development. After the discussion was held, the members of the board mostly voted, 9 votes for and 2 votes abstentions, proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014-2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99213	Thank you too, dear colleague. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club of the list of independent or independent lists and respected representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99214	I welcome you all on behalf of the club of independent representatives, I'll say something intro, and then Mr. Damir Cain will continue. It seems to me that the adoption of this bill on the regulation of clinical hospital centres at regional level as well as general hospitals according to that people's that the rye is there but that the rabbit is still in the woods. This means that it is an attempt to solve accumulated problems in Croatian health care, and I am afraid this attempt to plan will not bring the expected results. And I am sorry that we do not systematically approach the problems of Croatian society, then it requires a different organisational arrangement and a desire to contribute together as representatives to the improvement of Croatian society because the public assessment of the work of the Croatian Parliament must make us all concerned. We have a grade enough, a passable one, and that's not good. I believe that the Croatian Parliament should show in this year's term of office more boldness, more determination and more commonity in solving the accumulated problems. When I said that the rye was there but that the rabbit was in the woods I thought it was good to have plans, but the plans must be visions that must be worked out and that must have the basis to be realised in cash because without it there's only one beautiful story here, but I'm afraid there's not going to be anything. I therefore advocate one amendment, which is that the Croatian Parliament should be independent in deciding both the subject matter and the conclusions and responsibilities it should have in Croatian society. It is the reform in capite et in membris that has often been repeated in church circles, the reform in the head and then the reform in the limbs of individual institutions. Until we solve this burning problem of reforms and reforms, structural reform in the management of Croatia will not achieve much with individual programmes, projects and good wishes but without a real basis that will be achieved. The club of independent MPs will see, follow the debate, but as we look at the debate now, it's more theoretical, and we can't provide financial resources for the realisation of this big project, master's plan, and I'm afraid that out of the nice words, we're not going to achieve what we want. Now, Mr. Damir Cain will continue this debate on behalf of the club of independent agents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99215	Dear Representative Damir Cain, proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99216	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, when we talk about the incomes of Croatian health care, when we talk about this source of financing from the health insurance of the Republic of Croatia, these are contributions for compulsory health insurance are now 15%, before 13%, contributions for compulsory health insurance in case of work injury, occupational diseases of 0.5%, contributions to compulsory health insurance of unemployed persons 5%, not on the lowest basis of 1753 kuna for 2013 contributions for compulsory health insurance, etc. I don't want to talk about them right now. However, all of these revenues from the health budget shall be paid to the single account of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and shall be intended to finance health care for insurance compensation and for the work of the HZZO. The annual budget of HZZO for 2013 amounted to 20 billion kuna, which was less than €463 million for 2012 amounting to €21.1 billion after the rebalancing period, which was €23.5 billion and interesting that with the rebalancing process, the revenues amounted to around €22 billion, still 1 billion and €100 million less than in 2011. As far as health debts are concerned, normally as incomes are reduced logically and debt increases even though the minister here will deny me, but about that later. I agree with someone here who said that among other things this plan to develop clinical hospital centres is sort of a wish list. It may be crucial that everything that we are going to discuss today on page 7, where the importance of reforming the hospital system stems from the fact that hospital institutions are doing business with constant loss, ignoring debts towards suppliers, that the existing system of financing the health system is unsustainable and inequential, and that there are serious difficulties in everyday business. It is clear that when I think about health care in my Istria, in my constituency, or in the KBC where we live, then I leave first of all from the General Hospital in Pula, the County Hospital in Rovinj, the hospital in Lovran, that children's hospital in Canada, in one word and KBC of Rijeka. Clearly, if I were to speak here about the citizens of Bujština, the people of Umag, Buja, Brtunigle, Novigrad, Opržna, Grožnjana, I think I mentioned them all, then they are thinking a lot about the hospital in Izola, which, alone in the 1980s, was funded by the referendum. It is clear that all services will never be provided below in Pula alone, but the point is how to preserve the system, how to improve the availability, quality and financial sustainability of our system. I agree and live for the day when Croatia will be financially decentralised at least in the way it looked by the 1990s, I live for these principles of subsidiarity which are here in this plan for the development of clinical hospital centres apostrophysed on the side of one where I quote that "on the principle of subsidiarity health problems should be addressed at the lowest level of providing health care" at or as already possible. But we esteemed gentlemen have a serious problem. The fundamental question is how much can a county self-finance in the Republic of Croatia in the first place? For now, as far as I know only 4, it is the city of Zagreb, it is the county of Istria, Primorje-goranska or Zagreb County. What is interesting in one city of Zagreb is the income of 50,589 kuna per capita, and per capita is spent 33.362 kuna, while the state budget goes to 17,227 kuna per capita in Zagreb. In Istria, 35,965 kuna per capita is paid, 32,140 kuna is spent per capita and 3,826 kuna goes to the state budget, and in Primorje-Goran County to conclude 35,616 kuna per capita, 33,142 kuna is spent per capita, and 2,474 kuna goes to the state budget. So in Istria, just to mention this in 2013, 7 billion 629 million kunas were received, in Istria it was spent or returned to pensions, health care, social services, education, etc. 6.9 billion kuna, so the state budget went to about 716 million kunas, more than we've spent alone or what's left. So somewhere there's been about 90% of what's been achieved down there. In the city of Zagreb, it is about 70%. So only a million and a half people in the Republic of Croatia cover the costs in their area. So three million inhabitants spend more than they do in their area. So one system of health care, social, education with this kind of economic fundamental freedom can be said not to be sustainable. Croatia must absolutely save anywhere, but at least it needs to be saved when it comes to health care. What falls into the eyes is certainly also the number of health care staff who is expressed on page 35, 36. Croatia is divided into these 4 as I would say the health regions of Zagreb, central-north Croatia, the eastern region or the southern region, and here we see that in Zagreb we have 3495 not health workers, and 10545 healthcare workers 1:4, there is a ratio far the best. In the central and northern region means without the city of Zagreb we have 1885 not health workers, 4879 health workers, there is 1:3.5 ratio as well as in the eastern region where we have not health workers 2218 and health workers 5613. With us in the western region means Clinical Hospital Center Rijeka, then the Ortopedics Clinic Lovran, General Hospital Pula, General Hospital Gospić, unhealthy workers is 1505, healthcare workers 3510 or the ratio is 1:3,3. It is further spoken in arranged beds, etc., etc. What I am very happy about, however, is that after 12 years of being free to say, it has finally begun to be realized or better said with the addition of the General Hospital in Pula. The snails say it's a birthplace upgrade. The first phase means no equipment, 370 million kuna, the state provides 75% of that amount, local self-government 25%. Surely there hasn't been a change of government so the General Hospital won't be built or upgraded, as much as I'd like. And it is certainly commendable and it will largely stabilize the building moments above all in Istria County. Of course, now we're asking what's going to happen to the Navy hospital in Pula, I dare say about the most representative building in Istria, perhaps one of those in the Republic of Croatia. Whether to keep a piece of medical content, whether to turn everything into a nursing home because in one Pula to a double room is waiting in a nursing home or in a retirement home for up to five years, and in a single bedroom for as long as 10 years. I know that the biggest capital is health, everything else against health is simply worthless. Of course, in some environments, for example. In Istria we point to cancer, cancer first of all here we think of Plomin. Now and in Buzetska, they intend to build a compost so that a man 500m from elementary school that he simply cannot understand what is in the minds of individuals. All in all, as my predecessor said, we will follow this debate and decide accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99217	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, at the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99218	Dear colleague Grubisic, you said everything was in your head. Today's debate on the health system since 2003, since I've been in Parliament, is the 8th in a row. And how the heads who handle health systems in Croatia think of one example. By 2007 in the Rules on the Rights of Insurance Insurance from Mandatory Health Insurance was one likable provision that if the institution you came with the manual is not able to provide you with the requested HZZO service within the next 30 days, it must find another institution on the territory of the Republic of Croatia that will give you the service. And how was that problem solved? So that provision has been deleted. And now your commitment is gone. Secondly, you have witnessed the shift of directors of KBC 3 if I'm not mistaken and this guy in Čakovec allegedly resigned himself. The Minister put the Chakovečka Hospital in the northeast region. It's not a Chakovec northeast minister for God's sake, northwest, east on the other side. But given the background of the new sanity director, the Chakovez Hospital will certainly end up in bankruptcy. That's all predispositions. And as a society, we treat the wealth of the public health system as a case of the immune institution. Something Croatia has, little that the state has and everyone paid it with dry gold. And now we're discussing a national plan and at the immune institution, the second portfolio of the same government continues kicking with them without any certainty for the final solution to that problem. This is part of a public health system which is unfortunately not the subject of an observation of contributions in such strategic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99219	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, also representative Ivan Grubisic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Grubisic, I fully agree with you that this is a nice story, but that none of it will be. And I agree with my colleague Cain who said that the existing funding system is inadequate and unsustainable. And that is precisely one of the problems of this plan for the development of clinical hospitals because there is nothing in it about planning actually and solving this key problem of imbalances between currently available and on the other hand the real resources needed for hospital protection. So there are no words about finance here, nor about planning personnel without which absolutely none of the things in the form of beautiful wishes expressed in this document will be realized. So again, I point out that there is a list of beautiful desires with no indication of how these beautiful desires can be realized. It's about like that old joke that it's much better to be young, healthy and rich than old, poor and sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99221	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99222	And when I spoke a little critically about the proposal of this law, then I talked about the vision, but under the vision, I don't consider it a theory, but I consider it a elaborate program that has a tail and a head to say so and that can be realized. Without funds, no programme can be effective or effective. I therefore accept this supplement of Mr Rainer's opinion as a constructive part of the construction of a better Bill on the distribution of clinical centres, general hospitals, county hospitals in Croatia for the sake of functionality and for the sake of efficiency and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99223	Thank you, too. Dear representative Jadranka Kosor also has a replica on you, dear representative Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Mr Grubisic is talking about the independence of the Croatian Parliament in making decisions. It is a good thing that you mentioned this in the context of this debate, so it should always be reminded that the Constitution has provided for three pillars of each other's independence, one of these is, of course, legislative and this is the Croatian Parliament's decision by the majority in it, but the majority should decide in accordance with the best interests of the state and the people. And I suppose you were actually saying about this subject and that we should agree on any new steps in the health system, which is one of the neural points of Croatian society. If there should be consensus anywhere, agreement, consent of all those who decide, then it is with the pension system certainly and health care system. So all today and future reforms should rest or new steps, we do not have to call it social agreement reforms, that is, the agreement of political forces, and this agreement is first and foremost achieved in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99225	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99226	I am convinced that there must be a reform of serious, institutional and structural reform in Croatian society. I am therefore pleased that you have underlined this and given me the opportunity to say again that I will advocate structural reforms in the institutions of Croatian society because if we do not put it in place in the right way in my opinion of these individual reforms there will be nothing but a list of good wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99227	Dear fellow MP Dujomir Marasovic, a replica also respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99228	Your Honor, Mr. President. Col. Grubisic, a replica of this that Parliament is 2 in to work for the 2nd, that's about to be translated, that's not what you said, that's what you said, I translate and need a consensus, it needs structural reforms in state institutions, otherwise there's nothing down there. The Croatian Parliament, everyone has the right to give their grade. I'm giving him a grade of over 2, I won't tell you in five. The Croatian Parliament for the sake of time, makes all decisions, has resolved all the agenda points that the government has put on his agenda. What are we behind? Nothing. The ruling majority made decisions according to the government's instructions and what I could now do, all vote on what the government puts on their table. The Parliament's doing fine. The second thing is that the Parliament is an institution to treat the frustrations of the people. So if that's one function too, then some of us will be to treat the frustrations of the people. It's no good government, the government doesn't work well. If we want to change something in the Assembly we need, I suggest, we don't need 150 as many of us as we need 77, just enough for Croatia. Here's the ruling majority to suggest a maximum of 101, odd number. Which Croatia will have 150 and some MPs. Needless. It would be structural reform, and that's how we should go down and into health care and all the institutions, without it, but we lie to ourselves. We're all talking about health reform, and we're not going to reform the Parliament to take it off 150 to 77, and we all know what's here and 77 almost unnecessary. Which will be the ruling majority of the consensus, what Mrs. Kosor said, to resolve the health issue. There's no need. They have a majority of almost 2/3, they can vote any law, they bring any reform, they don't do anything. There's no need for consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99229	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course you're right, but I don't want our citizens and our voters to be called frustrated in the House, so please, I warn you to leave that category for others, not citizens who have given us trust. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99230	Here I must say that I finally agree with Dujomir Marasovic and when I say that we need structural reforms in the institutions then I consider at least under the Constitution the Croatian Parliament can at least have 100 MPs and no more than 160. We stopped 151, or 152, respectively. Because we cost taxpayers a lot, I think, if it doesn't go differently, it will need to go to a referendum to reduce the number of parliamentary representatives and change the constitutional category on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think that the conditions should also be laid down for who can be a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I obviously wouldn't be, but there are certainly capable people who can continue in the interest of general good and work in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99231	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, also a replica of his colleagues, Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99232	Comrade Grubisic, I agree with you in one key grade. If this National Plan is to be implemented in reality, it takes two basic preconditions, it's the staff and it's the money, but unlike you, I think we have a fundamental assumption. This National Plan is at the same time going with the creation of the National Service Register, at the same time going with the National Human Development Plan, which will then be able to clearly determine the following steps to achieve it. And also for the sake of the public, let's not say there won't be any money, that these are desert desires that can't be realized because there's no money. He's got money. I would like to remind you that the government's decision to leave the Health Treasury provides 2 billion kuna more for healthcare and that thanks to the good programmes, we received 250m euros of health benefits, out of which 107m euros for daily hospitals, for day-to-day surgery where the simple calculation has shown that by moving to a daily hospital, we are making millions of savings. So there are frames, there's money and this isn't a list of good wishes, these are beautiful desires turned into real goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99233	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99234	What you have denied is my claim that there is no money, there is money, and I am glad to hear it, but there are many problems ahead of us, I have also talked to the minister, and that is a question of hospice and palitarian care. They do not know how much they are involved in this plan, but I have tried in Split, and Dujomir Marasovic knows that, to organise the construction of the National Centre of Social Care, which would also include the Centre for Palitative Care with 40 beds for the whole of Croatia. These people stay at that center for a maximum of 20 days on average, some more, some less but somewhere around 20 days is average. Since we are getting older as a nation and there will be more and more such cases, I would ask the Parliament to support the construction of the National Centre of Palitative Care, and perhaps also because it is an exceptional facility and I did not, I spoke with the mayor of Split-Dalmatia and he appointed 7 persons in the initiative of the Building Committee of the Centre, the city of Solin appointed two deputies and one other, two on the initiative board and I wanted to do so together. It is not important which party is but to offer the people one content that is needed, which is in accordance with European Union rules, and we are only here at the beginning, we have some beds in Rijeka, and in Knin the centre is closed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99235	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas of Honorable Representative Damir Kajin. First respected colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99236	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, as usual you start with the figures in which you point out primarily the figures coming from your county, so Istria and here you have added to your debate and Zagreb. So you said that the money your county paid in the state budget came back from 7.6 billion to 6.9 billion. But you forgot to say something about it or I don't know if you know that healthcare is in Croatia, so since '45. years based on the principle of solidarity, so for example, let me just tell you. One patient who goes on haemodialysis every other day certainly spends a lot, a lot more money than you and even me. So, anyway, you and he single out 15% of your income, your health insurance salary. Therefore, the principle of leaving solidarity would lead to major changes in the Republic of Croatia. That's what Obama's trying to introduce in America, so it's not going, because people say and what I'm going to pay for his dialysis when I can leave that money to myself. So in Croatia, and I think it's a good system, a system of solidarity that we don't need to undo and highlight these things as you pointed out in your debate. I wish I could give them so much money in Slavonia, so come back less than you can. It is only proof that Istria and that Zagreb is with its GDP and with all other preferences is economical much, much above the rest of the region in the Republic of Croatia. That should be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99237	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99238	It is absolutely necessary to maintain the principle of solidarity, because otherwise the Republic of Croatia's special health system could not finance us. And it is clear that also one war wronged Slavonia, Istria, Primorje-Gorski County or Zagreb cannot be compared. It is clear that one tourist Istria, Primorje-Gorski County or industrial Zagreb and one Slavonia cannot be compared. But I wanted to be apostrophe once again, to make 50.5 thousand kuna income in the city of Zagreb per capita. per capita, 33300 kuna is spent and 17227 kuna goes to the state budget from Zagreb. In Istria and Primorje-Gorski County approximately the same is achieved, the difference is one percent, 35900 and 35600 kuna per capita per capita in Istria is spent 32140 kuna, 1000 kuna less than in the Primorje-Gorski County because it is a strong health center on the one hand, i.e. the university centre so that it goes from Istria to the budget, which is about five times less than the City of Zagreb, and from the Primorje-Gorski County it leaves 2474 kuna. Yes, once again I will apostrophe that 7.6 billion kuna is coming to Istria, and what remains, which is coming back to the health system, social, pension, education, etc. what local self-government spends 6.9 billion kuna. So, 90% of the total mass of funds that are coming to Istria remain in Istria, 95% in the Primorje-Goran County, and about 70% means per capita in the city of Zagreb. Clearly from all that...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99239	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. So is Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99240	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm sure all of us have a fundamental thought here is the availability and quality of health care, that's unquestionable. But I'm sure these long waiting lists don't make any difference. Also, each of us here has the best view of the terrain in the middle from which it comes. You spoke to your colleague Cain about Istria, and there's a lot of numbers listed. I know the best in my environment from the centre of County of Koprivnica and Križevnica Koprivnica Hospital, where during the term of office of colleagues Milinović an internal, invested quite equipmently, etc., good foundations have been hit in terms of palitative care. But then there was a change. New Marof, Varazdin's significant resources and opportunities are transferred, therefore from European funds. It's the same thing to say, and I don't think that's good. But it's a special story of pediatrics. Here I am, now there's Mr. Minister, the new Department of Pediatrics just because it's especially important to us. So, he's our most important, smallest, so a pediatrician department where the ministers come along on many occasions came to our county center, to our hospital and promised. Now, there's one addition to how much I know, but maybe the minister's watching closely, so he'll be able to... So one supplement, then another supplement, the third supplement, and somehow it seems to me that she is the thesis of her colleagues, Grubisic, that the rye is ready and the rabbit is in the woods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid he's not running away, so in this place, I'm also saying something from my surroundings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99241	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99242	Not only that, but I'll go one step further. When I talk about health care to a large extent, it even throws away money. On the one hand, we saw and quoted deliberately this ratio of non-medical, or medical staff. As a rule in relations one against 3.3, such as in the Western region Clinical Hospital Centre Rijeka, Lovran, Pula, Gospić to the relationship one to four as it is in the city of Zagreb. Recently, in the paper, an affair about the so-called so-called affair broke out. artificial boards. Apparently, the Republic of Croatia has provided itself with such a luxury that we have about 20 more than we need. It seems to me that we've singled out 37 million kunas for that, if it's to believe these articles in the paper, and all the needs of the Republic of Croatia could be solved with half the money. So, among other things, I quote that according to the criteria of the most developed societies, the real need for these artificial lungs is 1 to 250 to 300 thousand inhabitants. This means that, with a good and rational organization, Croatia needs 6 centres, 4 cardio and 1 respirator for adults and 1 neonatal and paediatric centre. We don't need more than 20 devices. I don't know the consequences of one of these irrational behaviors, and I'm guessing it's not only in health care but also in other of our ministries or state or not relevant to some local institutions. While that is so, and apparently so, we cannot expect much more from a health system or any other system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99243	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99244	My colleague Cain talked about decentralisation and about decentralisation of the health system. I don't know if you have good information, you mentioned that decentralisation is in the right sense of that word, that besides Istria and Zagreb you mentioned two other counties, so that they could finance the health system themselves. I must remind you that you do not have the correct data, I do not know what it is with the other counties, but we have done the same projection in Lika-Senj County as the residents of Licko-Senj County do through contributions on an annual level for the health system and we have reached a figure of around 90 million kuna. Now, since Licko-Senjska County has 1 hospital and several homes of health and the Institute of Public Health, so the total health care of Lika-Senj County at year level costs about 60-ac, let's say 60 million kuna. So residents of Lika-Senj County for health care are spending 90 million kunas, spending 60 million kunas in their county. So 30 million kunas more than health care costs in Lika-Senj County. But we also allow these 30 million kunas because some of the patients not only from Ličko-Senj County but also from other counties go to larger clinical hospitals and then through the 30 million can be financed also clinical hospital centres such as Rijeka, Zagreb, Split or Osijek. But what we are not glad to see is that 30 million kunas are taken from Licko-Senj County at the time of Minister Ostojic to resuscitate the clinical hospital centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99245	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99246	Yeah, uh... The day the Republic of Croatia will be decentralised like the one we lived in until the '90s. For the simple reason that the greater decentralisation, the faster the Republic of Croatia developed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that many circumstances have changed, since the war and beyond, and that without solidarity there is simply no survival or state, and simply no citizens in a whole series of counties in the Republic of Croatia. I also know that the state has not taken over the rehabilitation of health institutions, mostly where the founders of the county are, in order to simply collapse the entire system. Not only are we talking about health care, but it is likely that those health institutions would pull out of the county with them. So let's say the General Hospital in Pula had somewhere uncovered I don't know now exactly how much on today but about 220 million kuna. If simply through the form of recovery, the sanity manager or the manager of that state hadn't taken over, I don't know what would have been simple with that institution. But again when it comes to Istria, the solution is normally somewhere in decentralisation. To be honest, it bothers me how Istra has been going backwards in the last 10 years, the helmet behind Zagreb and that advantage we had before the Primorje-Gorski County are simply losing. In 2002 we were 18% behind the City of Zagreb, today we are 34.35% behind the City of Zagreb. We were 18% ahead of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, and today we're only 1 to 2% when we're looking at GDP data and there's some other things I don't want to do here at all. All in all that for solidarity but also greater decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99247	We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here's my colleague Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99248	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'd like on behalf of HDZ... But it's an opportunity to congratulate the World Day of Patients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it was '92. that Pope John Paul II established that day and that we are developing in some way awareness of the need, availability of health care. But let me say maybe and understand the minister that he didn't congratulate at the beginning of this today's presentation on the master's plan or the National Plan for the Development of the Hospital System in the Republic of Croatia when we know that today about half a million of our patients are waiting for more than 600 thousand of what is diagnostic, which is being examined and what are the diagnostic procedures. We also know that at clinical hospital centres they wait for 254 317 diagnostic procedures and that every month we have an upgrade with 400,000 new diagnostic procedures and every month we have 5 to 6 thousand people on waiting lists. Someone was saying that our people, the ones who chose us, were frustrated, so the President of the Parliament reacted, but we can rightly say that our patients are frustrated but we call on the Croatian Parliament here to endure although I do not see in this plan the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals can have any hope of a better future. I'm looking at the paper that my sister gave me on the central order of patients at the Split Hospital in the Firulas, and I'm looking and I don't believe it. I read from one daily newspaper, so a patient's confession "It's not like I didn't know it was waiting long, but still when you get a paper saying you were ordered on April 27, 2016, she said somehow and that date whistled behind her ears. You throw a ticket to your own brother who, on that cold morning, offered you a ride to Firul and you tell him you're counting on a check-in, say you're not normal if you think I'm gonna remember to drive you in the fourth month, let me know the day before. Look at the year? He looks and appreciates it, says you're a pegula missing a year you've been enrolled in 2016. It's not a mistake, brother. It's a real year. Brother says no to me... "Hopefully, I'd like this national plan to develop hospital centres to do something in that sense. Remember the Law on Medical Insemination as many attacks as there were, as many trains towards Slovenia, buses, planes, personal cars, and waiting lists were missing. Today because of a lack of financial resources here they wait from 6 to 12 months but today we don't hear B.A.B.E. and others who were very loud when the law changed. Today, in the Croatian health system, there were about 5 million, 5 billion total liabilities, so I'm not talking about debt but total liabilities, and some 2.5 billion due debts are missing at the monthly level between 150 and 200 million kuna. In order not to be self-critical, although we in Croatia have made every effort to find opportunities and support what we have called for, both you and I have made a consensus on the health system, about reforming the health system, but here in my debate on behalf of the club I will say a few words about it. It should also be commended, of course, by the Minister of Health for the separation, that Shuker has left, for the separation of HZZO from the Treasury, it is a good move, it should be commended, and it is a continuation of the reform of the health system initiated by the Croatian Democratic Community, or we have passed the law when this HZZO was to be singled out 1.1.2013. but the former minister either had no hearing or no political power to do so and it is to be congratulated on that, it is a good move. She's a little late for this agenda point. I will remind you that you said that the first item of the autumn session of the Croatian Parliament will be this. He also said that he is 2014-2016, so we are bringing a plan to develop the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia and he is already 14 years behind us and we have done nothing. You said that the main feature of this plan is the development of hospital systems, so subsidiarity and functional connection, but what this document lacks is the development of human potential, the development of the hospital system. And you and I and everyone here know there's no human potential. If I agree, these are some of the good wishes and bring them back to life, then we need 12 thousand nurses and we need about 4 thousand doctors to get this draft program, a proposal of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, or the hospital system as a whole, to liven up. When you talk about subsidiarity, I will point out here on page 1, there was a public debate, there were many associations involved in the public debate, and here we have about 100 amendments to this draft. Now that we're talking about subsidiarity, these are people who, of course, have something to say about the development of the health system, so people at local levels are positioned in a way that understands the health system. And you haven't adopted one of the 100 amendments. When I talk about subsidiarity, then I hope, that is, I wanted to believe that some of these examples, remarks, and adoption. You are told on page 1: "According to the principle of subsidiarity, health problems should be addressed at the lowest level of health care." That's where we all agree. Without providing health care at the lowest level, there is no patient satisfaction. But then on 2nd, you say, "To make it clear that the concentration of more cases through the functional integration process in one institution of quality of health care is getting much better." Well exactly the opposite, so the exact opposite of the quality of health care is best when you can do it and do it in your hospital. I told you that there are 254 317 people waiting at the Clinical Hospital Center in Zagreb, but so many diagnostic procedures. Now what are we supposed to do? We say subsidiarity, we go to develop hospitals at local levels, and on the other page you say that the concentration of power in both human potential and human potential should be concentrated in one center that is a better quality of health services. It doesn't work with each other. You say on page 1 that according to such intensive treatment should be directed to acute stationary treatment as soon as possible and to the greatest extent possible. The word itself, as soon and as much as possible, guarantees that mortality will be greater. In Croatia today unfortunately, about 54 thousand people die somewhere, of which 25 thousand people are somewhere from cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms, and what should we tell me now if in Croatia it seems to me at the end of my term, somewhere around 8378 people have a myocardial infarction, and now you say that intensive treatment should be directed as soon as possible and to what extent to acute stationary treatment, what should we do? So acute let's say in this case myocardial infarction as soon as possible and to a greater extent shift from intensive treatment to acute treatment. That's where we get that number that doesn't fit anyone, which is an increase in mortality. The state of hospitals or the merger of hospitals, a process that we started in the city of Zagreb, I hope you agree that in the city of Zagreb you do not need one hospital on every hill. If we're going to talk about county, the city of Zagreb has county status, in Zagreb in 2010 before the hospital's merger in Zagreb we had 17 hospitals, so on each hill we have one hospital, not to say one private hospital. Is it necessary if each county needs one hospital according to this reorganisation then the city of Zagreb needs at least two hospitals, one state hospital, and one hospital at the city level. You say here the merger of hospitals was conducted in January 2014 items of analysis and effectiveness. So it doesn't take a year to analyze the merger of hospitals or what you want to do. I will remind you that in Zagreb of the 10 hospitals the founder of the government of the Republic of Croatia brought together and made 6 hospitals, unfortunately Minister Ostojić raised it again to 7 hospitals from 6 to 7. ...that was necessary, I believe that in the Zagreb health system for five years the sea and can be managed from one centre, I am sure of it, for many rationalizations. Now you've said here on this fifth page that it takes you a year to see what brought the hospital together at county level, no need. We have a sport and you're as much a athlete as I know, and you're passing time. When we combined Zagreb hospitals after 6 months, we had 68 employees less, 136 thousand 574 kuna and 303 June savings, so after 6 months we had to analyse these attempts to merge at county levels and then know what and how and how to proceed further. All I'm gonna mention is the Virovitica Hospital that she got through the merger. It's one of the hospitals that did the most rational business, we invested in it somewhere around 90 million kuna, made six operating halls, didn't create debts. Some operations at KBC level if I'm not wrong at the Virovitica Hospital. After the merger, this is no longer done, waiting lists are longer, patients are unsatisfactorier and debts are accumulated. On page 7, we have a complete misunderstanding of the system, not from you, but from those who made this document that paid a million-and-a-half kuna, and we said that we have domestic experts who would actually make this plan without a single June, but it's not your fault, it's the former minister, and it's an unnecessary spent million-and-a-half kuna. Now look, the optimal development of daily hospitals involves building changes that would lead to healthcare professionals closer to patients. What the consultants from Serbia or BiH tell us. You knock this wall down so it'll be a patient and a doctor closer to each other, it literally says. It's a complete misunderstanding of the system, and in particular we've invested about 90 million euros in a united emergency hospital reception, that's what we said patient center of attention, patient in one place and in all hospitals we have a united emergency medical reception and there come all doctors, and the patient doesn't go and doesn't wander from up to. It's good what they did, only one thing I see well what they did is foreign consultants. I told you at your inauguration to say so, it must be known that a new minister has arrived, apologize to doctors who have been called out of your ranks to steal state budgets. Make a mini clean start to know that you're not responsible for what I'm saying right now but for someone else. But there's one good thing that foreign consultants did is they weren't politically burdened, so here they stole a sentence that there are serious difficulties in the daily business of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, reducing acute hospital treatment by 10% or increasing day-to-day surgery by 10% must also be accompanied by a financial background. Today we don't have a waiting list for oncology therapy. When we started 2010 in health system reform oncology therapy, so radiation, radiotherapy actually waited six months. Imagine yourself in a position to wait six months for the radiation that life means to you. You know how we handled it? If we got nine new linear accelerators, some of them were 30 years old. and here I have a statement from the president of the Oncology Society today in Croatia no longer has a waiting list since 2010. That year, in 2010, we invested 827 million kunas in health care, 500 million in equipment, 380 million in space. This reduces waiting lists. And here, another sentence, this document lacks that key problem, it's the potential, the resources of human and financial support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99249	Thank you very much, dear fellow Milinovic. We've got nine replicas, so we'll go in order. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Milinovic, I'd like to start from this neighborhood that you said and that I totally agree with. So not only are there two key components missing, and that's personnel and funding, but that depends on waiting lists. You also mentioned quite often waiting lists. The illusion is, the complete illusion and inaccuracy that waiting lists will change in any way because they depend on the three key components of experts and the frames here do not write anything, they depend on the number of apparatus and the rest that is needed does not say anything about it and all of this depends on the financial resources and does not write anything about it here either. Therefore, it will not affect the waiting lists at all and my words will confirm the data very soon. However, we all agree, and I think that everyone will agree with me that Croatian health care is a quality health but that it must be improved that serious structural reforms must be made so that it can be financed in a sustainable manner. But there's no such thing here. Look at the reforms that are being offered. They offer, for example, the basic principles of this plan are subsidiarity. So subsidiarity is used in the current organisation of hospital activity or should be used but not used. So it just needs to be done, it's no reform and nothing new. Four regions of health planning, so there are four concentrations of clinical hospital centres in accordance with gravitating areas that exist now, it's nothing new but having to be spent in real life. Therefore, categorization in four categories of national hospitals, county hospitals and so on, so it's done already, there's nothing new in this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99251	The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99252	Thank you very much. That this functional connection as if hospitals had not been functionally connected so far and asked for each other's services that they don't have. But on page 8, I commended the Minister at the Health Committee for giving up the number of beds as a basic category of hospital payments. And that's good. So Minister Ostojić didn't see it or didn't read it, the number of beds had absolutely nothing to do with paying hospitals but... System(s) or invoice(s). [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now. I express myself there when I read on page 8, I failed on behalf of the club to say so now I will answer in some way to my colleague Reiner,... The national plan will not clearly define the number of beds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not his role because it would be a step back in the reform of fiscal consolidation measures. I said bravo, excellent, the minister understood that. Then next sentence, I wrote myself a "ups" here. The next sentence of the national register will define the maximum number of beds among other things. We also agreed on the Health Committee that beds had nothing to do with paying for hospitals. So if you do 10 appendectomys, you'll be paid for your appendix surgery 10. You had five beds or 10. And then here it is said that, among other things, the maximum number of beds will be defined. So if the number of beds will be defined then there must be minimum technical standards. Then on one page, you say that a minimum number of pages will be determined and page 8 that will determine the maximum number, minimum number of beds, or then on page 8 that maximum number of beds will be determined. But if the number of beds will be determined, then we can say this, surgery in Osijek can have a minimum of 50 beds, I'm caricing, not maximum. Well, it doesn't matter the bed or even the bed filling, but... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99253	Dear Representative Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99254	Thank you. Dear colleague Milinovic has also touched on a very important topic and I want to underline it. So we're talking about a national plan, we want first of all to raise the quality of health care, and it consists of several segments, and it's about personnel, it's about equipment, it's about finance. And I'm talking again because I'm from Slavonia what it looks like when we're not being reasonable, but we're being related and related. So we put it on the person, we want to resuscitate her, so we'll put the nephew of Mrs. Borza's SDP, and we'll put her husband as her deputy, and we'll put her husband as the deputy of the Sanantia council, and we'll put him behind the head of the clinic. And according to the statutes, the clinical institute must be run by a person who has a scientific and educational calling. Well, now what quality of health care we'll be able to expect from the fellow concerned is an internal medicine specialist but doesn't work at university or have any scientific knowledge but there's something others don't have, he's the husband of SDP's MPs and members of the SDP presidency. And for nothing, all the money we're going to invest in the recovery of the Osijek Clinical Hospital is going to be achieved. And not to say that the recently removed sanity manager and cousin, so the cousin of MP Borzan, a few years ago, was legally accused 10 years ago of abuse of intoxicating drugs and pardoned by President Mesic. Well, now I'm asking, we have a person who even works in the health system who was charged with drug abuse. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99255	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99256	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99257	Please engage, Your Honor, so we can record your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99258	Here I was, and you're a witness that I've never replaced any director of any medical institution for political reasons, I haven't actually replaced any because I've given them all equal chances of showing whether or not they're capable of running a health care system, or their hospital or home of health. We did not go after a change in the law so that I would prove my muscles as Minister Ostojić in one day or in one week replaced many hospital directors and put resolution managers who all to one were worse than those he replaced because the increased waiting lists, increased debts and dissatisfaction of patients is greater. When you talk about a health system recovery, I agree, money thrown into a bag with no bottom because the reform process has been stopped. In addition to these rationalisations, however, the implementation of the national plan will result in other positive financial impacts which are not subject to an analysis. So this sentence says that this document instead of really a set of good wishes, so everything here that you're proposing is not subject to financial analysis. It is not true, everything in the world and so in Croatia is just subject to financial analysis. And they say they represent the indirect effects of the implementation of the national plan and it is difficult to quantify them precisely even though they are unequivocal. So we realize they're unmistakable, but it's hard to point them out with a finger, and there's gonna be so much savings because of that or that. Or, expensive and sophisticated... will be able to unite and use in one place instead of two or more places. I guess it's better in two or more places because we don't have people that much, potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99259	Thank you very much. I'd like someone to at least look back on whether he's benefiting from his success in treating hospitals. ... No, I didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. The next replica, respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99260	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Milinovic, really, if someone in this assembly can contribute to a better national plan, it's you. You're a practitioner doctor, you've been a hospital manager, you've been a minister, and I get along with a good part of what you said I agree. I believe Minister Varga will also make useful proposals to make the national implementation as good as possible. But I do not agree again, I am sorry to have to repeat it with the part that speaks of the staff as a brake for the implementation of the national plan and financial resources because I have already explained to my colleagues that there is one way of making documents. The first was the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020. This National Plan comes from the National Plan, the National Register of Service Providers will come from the National Plan, while at the same time working on the National Human Development Plan. So there are assumptions for the implementation of this National Plan. I won't repeat the amounts secured by leaving the Treasury and the funds of pre-accession funds. You also mentioned World Patient Day, the minister initially referred to it, but much more important than that review was what he did, so he launched a program called the Programme Plus that will ensure that in the extra days of the week and weekends the waiting list is reduced monthly by 6,000 patients. Here in Rijeka today, 12 new workshops will be open to reduce waiting lists, while ensuring additional hospital income because all these additional procedures and additional payments will be made. Thus, it is the most important contribution to today’s World Day of patient Minister Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99261	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99262	My colleague Jovanovic, we discussed this on the Health Committee. I wanted to stay collegiate with my colleague. You've seen, I mean the criticisms I have to do because this document in certain parts of it is contradictory to itself, but since you mention waiting lists. Here is today when I traveled from Gospić to the Parliament there was one show about reducing the waiting list. I think he... said he was going to shrink by 2 to 3 thousand people at the monthly level of the waiting list, but every month 5 to 6 thousand new people have waiting lists. So you won't regret it, unfortunately I'm saying it, not to reduce the waiting lists but they if they have this upward path now will have this one, but will continue unfortunately, I say unfortunately grow waiting lists. Well, as you mention, I welcome the Minister's initiative and I said again when he was elected minister that he must take immediate action at the beginning to make himself clear as minister, that Croatia hears and feels that a new minister has arrived. I was the minister and vice president of the government and then I learned to choose words. I'll remind you that at 6 months, I'll solve the waiting lists in two months, is that a problem? Ostovic spoke in pre-election time and I'll cut the waiting lists by 50%. Guys, that's not objective. That's how you ran a little bit and said I'd handle it in two months, so if it was that easy, I'd get rid of it, cut it down, but I didn't. And that's why we need to keep an eye on every spoken word, especially for our patients. So when you mentioned new workshops, and why it was waiting until today, it could have been done by the 8th or the 6th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99263	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Milinovic, you mentioned that this plan will include health planning by regions, so the regions that speak of the town of Zagreb are central and northern regions, the eastern region, the southern region and the western region. But you can see in practice as well as in this plan that these regions are not respected, since functional integration for Virovitica General Hospital, as well as for your General Hospital in Gospić are not worth it. They're attached or they'll functionally integrate with someone else. The General Hospital Virovitica will not be functionally integrated with the feeling, but with the hive. So your Zadar with someone else, in fact, the contradiction is precisely that the plan makes it clear who the health region belongs to, and then it gets mixed up in this way with these two hospitals. So, the Ministry of Health has skillfully avoided answering, i.e. to give concrete solutions to the above-mentioned functional integration, saying that it is not the subject of the plan, but the National Register of Health Care Providers for 2016, which is imposed in this new proposal as a new implementing act which seems more important to me than the plan itself, since it will only give solutions to what the public is most interested in what the fate of Croatian health care will be in the future, particularly on the basis of the activities and capacities of Croatian hospitals. This is what this plan is contradictory, which does not correspond to reality and cannot be read, but the national registry will be stronger than this plan, and it will be brought by the minister alone with its ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99265	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99266	Well, I was surprised by that part of the document, too, because it's going to be functionally connected as if there was no functional connection so far. Well, it was known if you had to go to heart surgery from a smaller hospital, you wouldn't do that surgery in Knin, Pakrac, Nova Gradišca, but you'd do it wherever you could. So the functional connection in this way existed, the hospitals were communicating. This is where we put it on paper like it's something new now. But what makes me happy here is still a particularly isolated city in Zagreb. They'd say here when I went through that reform on my own, they asked me why with Zagreb. Because the hardest thing to do here is break a spear, the minister knows it, or he'll find out, and he'll feel it. There's a lot of lobbies, there's lots of interests. Now watch this, let's just say one hospital that the minister either wants or won't connect either Nova Gradiška or Pakrac or let's mention Knin who on the year to stop her watch this now, stop the hospital in Knin. It doesn't exist anymore. At the annual level because you have to take care of the employees, something you have to do with space, save about 20 million kunas somewhere. Listen well, let's cancel Knin Hospital 20 million kunas we saved. Looks like a lot of money. When you see a health care system, it's small money. Now look, almost half a billion kuna is spent on the hospital health system in Zagreb, perhaps a little less. Why do you have to bite here? 10% savings there, gentlemen, that's 400 million kuna. Now, if you compare the Knin hospital and the 10% savings in Zagreb that every hill can have no hospital, but management, director, and I don't know what, so you're saving 400 million kuna. With these 400 million kunas, you can finance a CN hospital for 20 years. These are your parameters, and I saw there's a sign here that you're going to bite into that one, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99267	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99268	Dear Mr. President, I would like to say a lot, but there will be time within the debate and other concrete things medically, but one replica. You said they were unhappy and frustrated thinking about what the President of the Parliament gave me so I couldn't use the word frustrated. That they're frustrated by those waiting for waiting lists in hospitals, waiting lists. My colleague Milinovic, I agree with that. But you're not yet something, you haven't told the full truth. The entire Croatian people are frustrated, the whole country is frustrated. We have scientific research, we have polls, we have TV shows, radio shows, the regime media admit it. And only we here at the head with the President of the Parliament from comfortable chairs and big salaries, where everyone worships us and we think we're beautiful and young, and we're not, but we're old, we're the only ones who can say there's no frustration. in Croatian to say dissatisfied citizens. And we lie to ourselves and to that lie, to that lie we intend to build politics. She can't be on that lie-building policy. It is a lie because the truth is that Croatia is unhappy, frustrated means unsatisfactory. And now it's either someone or it's now declared here... I can no longer use the word or frustrated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, please, that's nice. Where did we come from and where did this demagogy of ours lead us? If I still have 27 seconds left, the right reform would be for us in Croatia to spend on health care as much as we collect something about 18 and a half billion and one taxpayer... About a billion and a half kuna, and that is why it is good for us to leave the Treasury and make sure that they are deployed in the best way and explain themselves to Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe everyone would agree to it to understand, understand. Until then, until it's done, it's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99269	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, thank you very much. Now I know you're not frustrated. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99270	Well, I said, unfortunately, our patients who have a brain tumor have to wait a year and a half for a checkup. And I know it's not fair, but journalists get the worst case ever. But once again on this page, it says to reduce the rate of acute hospital treatment by 10%. I said, somewhere around 8,000 people a year are suffering from myocardial infarction and we said 10% we're going to reduce the rate of acute hospital treatment. And how? In what way? At least it says by investing in non-preemptive programs, that there's at least one extra sentence and why it's only 10%. So in education if we're going to invest in education, in preventive programs then we could say we're going to cut between me if I were you I'd say we're going to decrease between 5 and 10% because the number of acute treatments in the last year has increased. Here are the young girls upstairs and the boys, two percent of Croatia's total pregnancy ends up out of maternity pregnancy. So, these young people, here's who listens to us upstairs, so good of you to come and learn something. So 2% of the total pregnancy ends up with an extraterrestrial pregnancy. And the main cause, among the main causes, is an infection with chlamydia. So through preventive programs, through education, we can, through the procurement of equipment, through investment in space, through the development of daily hospitals I would say here between 5 and 10% that would be good if we cut in the next 5 years, not just this year that you recorded 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99271	Dear colleague Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99272	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinović has already been told today is World Patient Day, so I want to speak here as a man who has been transplanted, as a patient, and as an 80% civilian disabled. So, you said there is no hope for a better future, I quote you, I claim that today is already in some segments of Croatian health not that there is no future but it is excellent. I now speak to you as a patient, as a patient, as a man whose health is Croatian and the Croatian doctors who saved their lives. Therefore, with all due respect, I want to talk about both Croatian health care and Croatian doctors. I will tell you in this segment here, which concerns me personally, so as far as liver transplants are concerned, Croatia is the first in the world according to the World Health Organization criteria. Unfortunately, some media have written that surgeons, transplant surgeons have high salaries. They don't know that they play so in this lick of health care that we have more messiah than any country. I'm talking about the transplant surgeons right now. But certainly in other segments I don't know. That is why I would not talk in such a way about Croatian healthcare if it had no future. Because I'm saying part of it, and in the present, it's great. Waiting lists, you mentioned Split. I'll just tell you, there is an average doctor in Split who has 100% more head insurance than in Zagreb. And it's normal to have a harder situation in Split. So let's get this over with! I'm grateful to all the ministers, and to this minister, and to the past, and to you, and I don't know who else did it. And I would just end up having to help and transplant programs in Split, first of all the heart, bone marrow, what can first go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99273	Okay, thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99274	I didn't say there was no hope for patients, but these cases, and through this national program, when there's no financial basis, there will be no hope. Here you are the best example that Croatian health care is among the best not in Europe but also in the world on transplants. And remember which government and which minister was when he singled out the hospital payment and paid directly to HZZO or to the state budget. This particular financial base has led to these results. But when I was talking about the human potential the minister knows that we must, when I asked the minister to be fenced by the statement, I think that was when he was Finance Minister Slavko Linic who said that doctors were stealing the state budget, don't give it to us! Don't let us out of the party, don't put us on the profession, don't give us doctors. 'Cause look when you make a doctor... Or take out the tonsils, let's make it understandable for everyone in Croatia that it costs 300 dollars and in Germany 2300. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For 2,000 euros more and we're better than them, I agree with you. But let's not compare ourselves to Germany. Well, neither are Slovenians twice as good. We have 300 euros, with almost 700 euros. So that's what I was saying that we need to develop human potential through this plan. Don't be afraid to negotiate new contracts with private polyclinics. Without negotiating with private clinics, it was one true reduction in the waiting list in the first year of my term. They're part of this system. I cut their prices up to 80% and they agreed and then we cut the waiting lists from 30 to 50%. Don't be afraid, I've been obstructed from all sides, but in the last year of your term, and don't be afraid to negotiate with private polyclinics for the benefit of the patient because the patient doesn't care if he comes to the manual or the private one, he'll come with the manual, and he won't have to go to the private one anymore and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99275	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99276	Dear counterpart Milinovic, in his debate on this national plan, you looked back quite a bit, as well as in replicas, about subsidiarity and functional integration. You mentioned, if I understood correctly, that there were a lot of national proposals, opinions and amendments. Well, our carlovakia county also referred to it as wanting to respect both diversity and geographical and demographic and other specificities that patients from our county and similar counties have in some way earned and needed. According to functional integration, there is somehow an impression from this national plan that strong centres will develop more and more, that in clinical hospital centres in just a few, four or five major cities, citizens from these areas will be more accessible to health care, and that somehow on the ground, especially those patients who are away from the municipalities can't even get to the infirmary, let alone the hospitals will be abolished for adequate health care. And strengthening hospital centres, reducing general hospitals and personnel and equipment is not good because we know that 90% of all diseases are treated in general hospitals, and large cities don't even have general hospitals. Thus, in some ways, patients from these cities are already referred to more expensive treatments that may not be necessary for some time. In fact, my question would be if we continue, in your opinion, whether we will decrease the basic constitutional and legal principles of equal and equal availability, quality health care for all our population.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99277	The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic. You won't or you will?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99278	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99279	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I agree with your opinion, colleague Milinovic, that it is the most optimal if the insurance company achieves health care at the lowest level. It would be the most optimal of the 80% that are said to be achieved at the level of family medicine doctors. We don't dispute that, and that's certainly the goal to pursue. And certainly the efforts of local self-government and regional self-government have been done a lot, and, of course, the ministry has done a lot in terms of both space and equipment, but the problem is what you were talking about human potential, human potential. And this figure, which is spoken of by the Croatian Medical Chamber to about 1000 doctors, but let it be, now it is a dynamic process that indeed in reality it seems that numerous and equipped rural rural rural rural nurseries are empty, the competitions are rolling as well after everything that happened to the village about agriculture and everything, if they do not have available health care, then you know that there is no hope and that not all of them are equal to what counterpart Murganić was talking about. Of course, if this one has to move on now, I would like to say if he has to go further to treatment in another institution, so that he is certainly most optimistic to go to the nearest institution he insists on and HZZO, that he must achieve health care. But if it does not have such a service in the middle, then he is the one who is 150 km away from Zagreb, if he has no bus connection and he must start the day before and about the economic insufferable situation, or must leave in the morning at 4 o'clock. So what's that blow to that sick man's physiology? Well, that's also for a healthy man an unmistakable effort that he can't stand, and that's a further path to sickness and an unbearable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99281	The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99282	Here, I can combine two replicas. So, I'm afraid this too will be injured by that constitutional category of availability of health care. When it talks about this document itself that in certain stages it is opposite to itself, I now ask the Ministers to edit this and nomotechnically, because you may not have had time besides all the obligations to read, but look at this sentence "So functional integration will result in not having all forms of health activities in all hospitals." It's like we have all the activities in every hospital right now. Take another look at "functional integration will result in the absence of all forms of health care in all hospitals." Well, we don't have all the activities in all the hospitals, so I guess that's pretty clear, so it's a nomotechnical change, and this document will result in us not having everything in all the hospitals. Well, now we don't, and it's normal that we don't have everything in all hospitals. But I remembered well, and thank you fellow Milinkovic, he reminded me, this document does not solve a crucial problem. It says here that the patient is at the centre of attention and the development of clinical hospitals and hospitals in general, so we're going to reduce the number of hospitals. Now look, Dubrovnik-Split about 250, 260 km away. Imagine living in the middle, until the first hospital you reach Dubrovnik 150 km, to Split 110, 120 km. This document on the development of the hospital system doesn't predict anything, let's not say a new hospital, but at least one of the best organized day hospital on the move. So imagine having a car accident in Makarska, 110 km to Split, then 7 months, or to Dubrovnik 150 km. And this document national hospital development doesn't predict it anywhere. It would have been the same Minister, he didn't hear me, the minister, I'm sorry, but that should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99283	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99284	Thank you. Dear MPs and respected MPs, here I thank you for a very fruitful discussion and what greatly delights me and encourages me de facto that the atmosphere of the national consensus on the desire for well-being, the development of hospitals and the well-being of patients is in the air. And that's what I'm very happy about today, given that we're talking about the International Day of the Patient, that's what I'm very happy about. In fact, I was a little afraid that there would be no trace of it, given that I called party leaders to discuss this particular project when it was before the public debate period, then the leaders of the main opposition party did not respond to this conversation. However, through today’s conversation, there are indications that there are indications of a national consensus on this. I'm going to address some of the things that were mentioned here so that we can address some of the inconsistencies. Especially when it comes to waiting lists and how they are addressed today and everything. The development and development of the waiting list has had so many factors affecting it that it cannot be responded unequivocally to who, everything, how it affects waiting lists to come into existence. However, what we are going as well as everything else by system solving and making priorities has been addressed by those 10 diagnosiss that make up the most common causes of long waiting lists and we are now going with this measure programme plus now address it. It must also be known that the total number of people on the waiting list when talking about a total number of over a million people is a large majority, almost three quarters waiting for regular first checks, or not regular, checkups that are regularly ordered. When we single out, when we see 280 thousand people unfortunately because of a bad organisation, because of lack of funds, because of very diverse factors affecting the development of the waiting list. These 280 thousand waiting people account for less than 3% of the total number of patients in that same period that were done. And we believe that through an increase in efficiency, through an increase in the flow of financial resources and through an increase in care and care to the condition of patients we believe that we can absorb those 3% so that within a very soon period we don't have a waiting list at all. There are countries that regularly have waiting lists as a component of their health system, Great Britain, for example. I was visiting the Minister of Health of the Federal Republic of Germany, it's a country that doesn't have a waiting list, and it's also... spent on a health system. Therefore, I believe that a culturally Croatian health system similar to this central European has no reason to have waiting lists. When we talk about debt, I will speed up a little bit, it is true that about 2.1 billion kuna has been received new debts of total and new debt in 2014, but our own and my own firm promise to worry about consolidation and convergence by 31.12.2017, that not only do we have a system of health care that sustains it and does not create new debts, but the existing debts of 2.1 billion kuna, 700 million kunas are resolved annually by 31.12.2017 and we put the healthcare system within the time limits of payment as defined under the Financial Business Act. Staff member Jovanovic has repeatedly mentioned that the national plan has been defined, he is near completion and we are letting him go into public debate soon. When we talk about regionalisation of 4 regions, of course we take into account two things, our regional and geopolitical position, as well as the member of the EU where we have... the hospital that is available to us and soon for the smooth end and the lush agreed use of the isolation hospital but also Metkovic and the bridge hospital, which is what we are talking about and how the construction of hospitals is financed and which the staff are working there has no reason why we could not also include in the Croatian healthcare system, because of these 254km between Dubrovnik and Split. Connecting organically or functionally I'm a commitment that it has to be functionally connected. Organic merger and abolition I think it brings too much... and unnecessary politicizing about something where politics shouldn't be, and it's a matter of people's health.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99285	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99286	Here's just a brief summary, getting out of the treasury, a new model of national planning and what's our insurance for a sustainable health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99287	Thank you. Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99288	... you're talking about consensus, we're trying to get a chance in HDZ to consensually accept this document. We also talked about it on the Health Committee. Why didn't I come to this meeting, the two of us talked about it, so now that you mention that I didn't come to the meeting as a counselor, so normal human communication would have been not a congested pumpkin so that I asked you to call me. I know you're busy, too, but if your secretary called at least and said you heard Milinovic asking the minister if you'd be on that team, that's the first thing. The other thing is, I don't get it from the papers, so I didn't know if the paper was telling the truth or not. So there was one of those normal communications not between the two of us, if you told the secretary here's the minister asking you to be on the team or on the advisory team, I'd answer yes, but that's some kind of normal communication. Let's take a joint step here, I suggest you don't vote this Friday. You'll hear all the comments and suggestions today, you need something and nomotechnically, I said a few and nomotechnical things. Let the government go with certain amendments, none of the club representatives should go with the amendments all in order to show one to the Croatian public that we can agree on some things. Here I call on Friday not to have a vote on this, to try to use a week's worth of proposals for no one to go with the amendments to let the government go with its own amendments and try to reach a consensus. I've been and HDZ members have been restrained just because of these things on the Health Committee. I talked to the party president about it, he doesn't mind. Anyway, he said try talking and try to get to the joint initiative and I got nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99289	The reply to the replica of Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99290	I'm thanking you. I must mention, first and foremost, whether or not an amendment or a delay, that is a higher level of decision-making than mine as minister, I must consult on that. However, respecting any proposals or suggestions to improve this document is personally acceptable to me. On the other hand, I will now speak for a second not as a health minister but as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia for making media announcements about announcements from the shadow minister of the HDZ, I must mention that a little concern has caught me because although the MPs from the ranks of the health mile are positively speaking to the vast majority about this document, however, the minister indicated in a session the privatisation of health care, the reduction of patients' rights to the necessary minimum, and everything else must be paid. I hope that it gave up and that it is no longer a pre-election platform for HDZ, that accepting the public health and public health care system is the foundation of the Croatian health system and that it is publicly funded and that there is not any spilling of money or new privatisation that smells a little too much of what we witnessed in the 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99291	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99292	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, according to his colleague Milinovic, in this document, it says that functional integration should actually begin on 1 January 2016. So you're moving the ball very elegantly to someone else's yard. Therefore, there would be plenty of time to edit and amend this document in the same way as we have proposed. The document constantly pushes through one thesis, which is to raise the quality of health care. So I'm going to ask you very specifically how do you think you should raise the quality of health care, reduce financial costs, with all due respect to all doctors working, specifically now at the County Hospital in Čakovec? For example, they may reduce in a way that for 3 to 6 months they cannot administer or administer some medications, so that due to the lack of allergens for hyposensitisation to continue immunotherapy, ask for 3 to 6 months stand in response to the doctor from the County Hospital in Čacvoc. So something's going to be saved, and the doctor can't provide the patient with therapy, so let him report in three to six months. I don't think that's the answer, Mr. Minister. Besides, we're going to talk about that 200 thousand euros your predecessor spent making master plans, so just keep quiet and we're talking about some new savings. Maybe you're contradictory in that part, too. So I repeat once again what my colleague Milinovic said, given that this should take place for a year, you might consider a better model to offer us. And when you've touched some statements from the Croatian Democratic Community, I'll only say one, which is that we think we should restore legal subjectivity to the hospitals he's taken away from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99293	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Varga, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99294	Here's my thanks. As is known in the media repeatedly written exit from the Treasury was not only at the accounting level of the Ministry of Finance but there was a legal entity in terms of the health budget fund for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute where compared to the operational money available in the previous year we have 2 billion kuna more. Of these 2 billion kunas, more than 1.2 billion were allocated to hospital health care and the hospital's medical care averages increased by 17%. These 17% aren't even in all hospitals, that's average, so for example. KBC Split got 24% more than a year ago. I don't know the number by heart, but it's a much bigger number than it used to be. And now the question is whether he recognizes an allergologist who needs to give the medicine, whether it has gotten information that he has more money at his disposal and that he can have more free money to get medicines and medical material to take care of his patients. We have a new moment, new things happen, and I know in particular that in orthopaedic departments in all hospital implants for hips, knees and shoulders where we have really long waiting lists come to order larger amounts of implants and surgeons and nurses and all health and health care personnel are willing to do more and better to shorten waiting lists. That's what a turn-off in the health care system is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99295	And Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99296	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, first of all, we must make it clear that unlike some of the systems such as that in Great Britain, Croatia does not have a shadow minister's institution, and then this is a little missed what you said, so each of us is speaking for himself, representing his views unless it explicitly declares that he speaks for the party. But I would refer to what you mentioned and what is key to the lack of this document, which is the question of human planning and the issue of financing. The question of staff planning is something that cannot be solved in a year as to how much this document is actually worth because it is being adopted in 2015 and it is expected to work by 2016, which is in itself a little odd because such a document should probably be worth at least 5 years. That would make sense. However, it takes a lot more time to plan the personnel and not a single word to do so here. We are witnessing that every day 20 senior nurses leave Croatia, so we don't have enough anyway. If it had gone according to the media, 8 hundred doctors, doctors and nurses who are not enough anyway leave each day and will lack it to spend any of it, not in a year, but in the next 5 years. A cycle to produce a top expert, a doctor, as you well know, and a sister has not been for a year or two or even five years. Another key story that does not exist here at all is the incredible disproportionateness between the development of a health profession that is truly high in Croatia and the lack of financial resources, you no longer have money, you have less money. And whatever you think you might be convinced that you have more money when you look at numbers, you will realize that this year there will be less money than last year and all the consequences that come out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99297	The reply to the replica of Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99298	Here's my thanks, double. So when we're talking about frames, I think for the third or fourth time we're going over the national development plan and the staff in the health system. The problem of going abroad has been a perceived problem since the first day of accession, negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Migration and freedom of migration of the working population is freedom, is one of the fundamental freedoms of the European Union. I was appointed in 2006 as a member of the Task Force on Negotiations and specifically for Working Group 3 whose freedom to provide services and rights is created. Therefore, we have specifically negotiated there on the way in which we have mutual recognition and qualifications and everything that arises from the regulations and directives of the European Union that bind us to freedom of migration of the population. It's up to us, all of us, to make miles so people don't feel the need to go abroad. With this national plan, we introduce order, work and discipline into the Croatian health system, which is one that our workers, who have a tendency and a desire to go abroad, tend to such systems. So we want to create in Croatia the same miles and the same working conditions as outside. Payments in the Republic of Croatia when compared with standards of life and the cost of living in countries where they move are not so drastically different. The cost of living in the Republic of Croatia is somewhat lower. It is therefore up to us to feel better about the organisation and to feel a different approach to evaluation of staff and promotion in the profession to kill that desire and curiosity for wishes abroad. I believe that we are on a good path and I believe that you will also support us in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99299	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Public health is a great wealth that Croatia has and those who have not met societies where there is no public health system will find it difficult to understand why I keep repeating that the issue of public health preservation is of particular interest in the Republic of Croatia. As anywhere in Croatia, there will be and public health system abuses will exist, either through privatisation requirements or other forms. The example in which Croatia has proven that it does not understand all segments of the importance of the public health system and public health is also an example of the government's behaviour around the Immunological Institute because it is treated exclusively as an economic issue, not a public health issue. I am sorry that the Minister of Health has never spoken on this subject, as if it were shoe production, and not something produced from raw materials in Croatia for public health in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am sorry that before the debate on this document, the Minister of Health did not allow us to discuss the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Labour Club on the effects of the Law on the recovery of institutions, the special law that we have passed to resuscitate health institutions. I'm sorry, Minister, that we didn't discuss this before, because if we were perhaps certain claims, dilemmas or fears, we wouldn't have expressed in this document, but in response to the parliamentary question that you gave me in 2013 and 2014, 3 billion 257 million kunas of debt from earlier years of '13, '14, '12, '11. Since 30.10 last year, there are still 1 billion kunas left unsanitary. Of which, from a billion and a half billion and 52, it wastes on clinical hospitals and clinical hospitals. It is evident from the structure of the rehabilitated that the KBCs had a billion 345 rehabilitations, county hospitals a billion 200, special hospitals 45 and even two home health care facilities managed to lose: Gospić and Petrinja. How they did it was never simply clear. And that's what you see when we skip the order of decision-making on the health system, so now we're discussing the plan, and we don't know the effects of what was done here. I also heard the question why the cost of health care in Croatia is growing. Someone explain it to me, says one and even your colleague from the government. The extension of life, the ageing of the population, the development of diagnostics both equipment and diagnostic procedures, the increase in the number of chronic diseases, the exceptional development of therapy and therapeutic procedures, but also the pharmaceutical industry that has a major negative impact on the increase in health system costs and health costs will continue to grow. Ministers, the reduction of funds will never succeed in safeguarding the public health system because the health system will become more expensive, more expensive and more expensive, and never cheaper, and these are facts. The problem of Croatia is that Croatia has not developed health management, health management and institutions, and systems and institutions, and we have never dealt with this seriously. Public health in our court is the only guarantee that health is not only a privilege for the rich but for all citizens of this country, and in this context I have studied this document with these beginnings. National Development Plan 2014-2016 Minister, please give the amendment that this is 2015-2016. Well, we can't adopt the 2014 document in February 2015. It's unserious, people will laugh at us. You had to change that in November when you sent the document to the Parliament, but you can do it now. Imagine history, in February 2015 they adopted a document on the development of health institutions in 2014-2016. Secondly, in the last year of the term of office, whether it is good for the health minister to propose such a document to Parliament in the last year of office. Your predecessor had a different vision in his masterplan, so the same in government two different approaches. This document should be longer than that. This is why such documents will take place at the beginning of the term of office. The next question that has been raised to me is whether this document should be discussed and adopted by the Parliament at all? I don't think so. He's enforceable on one condition. All hospitals in Croatia are state-owned, then I will prove it later by quoting parts of this document. You can't execute this document if you don't lift the false decentralization of hospitals that are God's on county property. Secondly, he's incomparable or we can't, or we don't need to discuss him, because the money you almost talked about isn't in his realisation. There is nothing about the responsibility of health institutions for the mistakes that are happening, and we are a rare country in Europe that is formally acting as if errors in the health system and medical errors are not made. It's a gray zone. Patients' safety and better healthcare as you claim is directly related to this topic. There are no treatment errors in Croatia. That's how it comes out of practice and debate about it. For making this document, ino consultants have been paid before. Will it also require foreign consultants to teach us how to implement it? Unfortunately, I have to say that you have taken intermediaries and consultants to introduce a single insurance system for hospital institutions. I don't understand how, besides so many people, both at the Ministry and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, you have to use both Croatian minds if you want foreign consultants? I would call this document a real name like this – a flexible plan for functional cooperation of hospitals, because the word flexiblely and functionally about every tenth word used in this document and your concept is I accept it to go to a flexible merger or collaboration of health institutions. But then let's call it a flexible plan of cooperation for hospital institutions. And another reason why I can't finally praise him, support him and say that he should have been in the Assembly because everything is operational, content and important will actually be in the national register of healthcare providers, especially the criteria for the conclusion of the contract from the number of beds and beyond. And that document won't be here in Parliament. Therefore, only then will you see the fullness of the content of the objectives and the purpose that they want to achieve by this document. Four regions, central and northern, not the northeastern region of the ministry, east, south and west. And now it says the goal of connecting KBC, Clinical Hospital Centres, clinical hospitals as roof institutions of the region with hospitals of the second, third and fourth levels. What's the problem so far? Who obstructed this functional integration and cooperation of the third and fourth levels hospital or national level? Where do we break the spear? I didn't find an answer. Where are the resistances that need this document to come about? The first level is the first category of national hospital, KBC, clinical hospitals, clinical facilities two three. Second category of county hospital regional level and St. Duh, Slavonski Brod, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Pula, Varazdin, and all other county hospitals third category hospitals. And the fourth category is local hospitals. And now I've told you that you can't do this without the state of hospitals, the side of the 30th implementation of the national programme, I quote: "Who is implementing the national programme? Hospital administrations, the Ministry of Health, HZZO and other stakeholders such as professional societies, associations, professional chambers assessors' associations." Where are the county's founders, hospital owners? They are exempt from the implementation of this national programme. So, there's no additional county hospitals here, so we're going to take over and we're going to end the false decentralization of the hospital system. She's fake by that because the quota of money determines HZZO, the state. A basketball right HZO through regulations, material expenses for employees... through collective agreements, and the county had to manage the county hospitals, and it was guilty of their losses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's stop that agony. Then this document makes sense because it will be known that the state stands both in implementation and in management. I just have one more important thing to do with the weather. The objectives and measures of the National Plan, Chapter VI, by which the measures will be carried out. I quote: "Decrease of acute stationary capacity, increase in capacity and number of daily hospital services, integration and equipment of emergency hospital receptions and organized units, increase in capacity for prolonged and long-term treatment, increase in capacity for palitative treatment, hospice." Isn't that right, Minister? Increase capacity for hospice? How many hospices do we have? How many capacities in the hostels in Croatia do we have? All this increase, increase, integration requires money. In the 2015 budget for the implementation of these measures, how much money is secured? Could not find an item. Maybe I'm clumsy, so I couldn't find it. You have the opportunity of ministers for two and fifteen and projections for two and sixteen only for these parts that I have read the measure of how much money is secured. I didn't find it. But I welcome those measures. They are obviously necessary and necessary. Now, are we going to move to KBC and KB, and not the second and third-level hospitals, and that's where the dilemma begins, and until we see the operational implementation of the documents, I can tell you that you're right. Why? 2 other measures, improving the hospital financing system in a way that the price of health services maintains the real price of services. So we come to a system where the price of the service will be determined uniquely. And secondly, paying hospitals not through defined limits, thank God! How much? In 1996, in 1/07, this unfortunate system of restrictions was introduced, immediately after the war. We are now in 2015 and finally someone has come to the sense that the hospital funding system with monthly restrictions, money theft, the reduction of the right of the patient insurance company and the destruction of often quality doctors who left because they could not function in such a system. Ministers, however, are exclusively designated by the account for the contracted service. And that's where it starts, the arranged service in hospitals. By what criteria? The way it used to be in HZZO, I tell you, you give me, give it to us? The criteria for the negotiation of these services, the categorisation of hospitals and the objective or problem that arises. The more services at a pre-known price the hospital will have more money, right? And on the other hand, if the prices are real, if the prices will be unrealistic, there will be more losses and not more revenue, and on the other hand, we are now coming up that there is not exactly this categorization that the hospital will be able to arrange to see if it is profitable in that part. And so I join my colleague Milinovic's proposal, I rarely agree with him, this time I agree, yes, a week out of it that we don't write amendments here and we don't send our amendments because we're definitely going to do something wrong and spoil it, try the repairs you've heard because you want to support everyone. It's the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99301	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99302	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned, among other things, that this system of decentralisation of health through the county hospitals of the so-called farce, and I completely agree with you, it's a lakardia. It's a joke because it's quite clear that what they say in Dalmatia Pani... have in their hands a state institution and that one who determines both a package and a supply of funds, provides the funds should and takes care of these hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just one of the fake functions the county has, which in my personal opinion have become a little archaic and it's time for their change. However, you said at the beginning of the presentation and something that attracted my attention, as far as your thoughts on the Immunological Institute are concerned. I agree with your findings, but I believe both you and the general Croatian public would be much more interesting to hear about what Mr Minister thinks about the position and role of the Immunological Institute in Croatian Health. In this moment, Mr. Varga is the most responsible political person for the reliability of the health system, the health care system of citizens, to maintain the level of health care and it would be interesting to hear his explicit opinion whether it is acceptable for him to lose the Immunological Institute and produce what the Immunological Institute produces or not? Is it acceptable for him to rely in the future on the import of what the Immunological Institute produces or not? And if he's okay with such a situation, he'll argue. And if he believes that the Immunological Institute must save what he, as Minister of Health, intends to do to preserve the institution for the sake of national interests and the safety of the health of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99303	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99304	Yes, reading this document to implement it in this context will need to change a series of laws that regulate the powers of regional self-government towards hospitals, i.e. the health system and health laws because it is obvious that county hospitals become state hospitals. Or if we're going to do this, then we really need to end this false decentralisation. The views on the Immunological Institute of Ministers cannot be heard, perhaps there is a chance today, and the Minister of Economy and CERP who has been dealing with all of this lately and going to hell as far as I can see will help him think. But because of the time I didn't make it when I mentioned the money and the budget for 2015. In the objectives and ways of implementing these measures, it also writes that the possibility of co-financing for the implementation of the EU's national plan and structural funds should be seen. I wonder if at least one single project has been prepared or applied so far for the purposes of a particular health institution in the Republic of Croatia or is it at least in preparation, the final stage of preparation, so that the EU structural funds can be used for implementation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99305	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99306	Thank you, colleague. Well, you asked Lesar a question, and I have to correct you because it's not true, it's about health management. So Croatia has a very well-established system of education of health managers both at the undergraduate level and at the postgraduate level it is such a quality study at the University of Zagreb that many students outside of Croatia and in Rijeka are also studying. As for the cost of health care, you mentioned pharmacotherapy, I think you should once again break a myth about the cost of pharmacotherapy that's being taught in that health management study. Therefore, not only is the price of the medicine and the cost seen but it is seen what the treatment brings. Using each product at an optimal dose, optimal duration means faster exit from the hospital, faster return to work and long-term pharmacotherapy and quality pharmacotherapy means actually saving in the system. And the third question you asked was this supposed to be in the Parliament? If it were supposed to be, this is a document that matches exactly what this House has to discuss. But that's why there's been a change compared to the master plan. Maste plan so that we distinguish it from national has two key faults. The first flaw was methodological, so he did not take into account the epidemiological characteristics of certain parts of Croatia and then, based on these epidemiological characteristics, determined the direction of health development. And the second part was problematic that everything was based on the number of beds, on the number of beds. And if that were in the national plan, then it would actually be a brake, because every time the Parliament has to discuss it. This has also led to these amendments allowing the Parliament to adopt a strategic document, while implementing documents are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99307	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99308	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, the first question cannot be incorrect. You told me I asked the wrong question. Inaccurate may be the answer, the question no. I know that in Croatia, part of the people for health management are being educated. Who manages institutions, health institutions in Croatia? These sanity managers that the minister set up one and the other, which one of them finished health management? Let's just say I know that the sanity manager of the hospital in Čakovec didn't finish his health management, which I'm convinced of. And if they did, and three were removed in KBCs and several other hospitals, then they must have either bought exams, or they were very bad students or students. And third, why I raised doubt as to whether this document had to be adopted by the Parliament. I've explained my doubt. Because the essence of this will be visible through that national register of the provision of health institutions, because standards and criteria are established there that some institution may conclude a contract, and it will not be the subject of the adoption debate in the Assembly. And for that reason, I felt that this document, when adopted in the Assembly in an operational sense, is very little worth, because it does not answer the largest number of questions when it comes to concrete implementation mechanisms. Those were reasons for doubt, attitude, opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99309	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Lesar, from your presentation, I think it may actually be said that you have admitted that yet a turn in the health care system has been made more than you have said in the end, you have actually stated that the amendments would be wrong, that is to say, to spoil this proposal that is before us. You also mentioned, you mentioned the effects of the Law on the recovery of institutions or that you do not know what is happening on the ground. That's why I called to tell you exactly what the result of the recovery of the General Hospital of Dubrovnik is. I agree that the debt of the General Hospital of Dubrovnik and other hospitals cannot be said that it is actually a long founder as it is actually an opinion of the administration. Why? Because when you look at more than 90% of the costs are about wages, medicines, medical material, but it's determined somewhere, the state authorities are responsible for it, but the founders are guilty in case they don't well master what's proven from the audit. When you look at the 2011 revision at our Dubrovnik hospital, we had examples of employment that were not in line with the ministry, we had examples of poor public procurement that were not actually legally implemented, as well as salaries accounts, overtimes, etc. Therefore, the revision also gave a conditional opinion. Today, it was said that the directors were not being replaced at the time, perhaps it should have been changed to better lords, so that there would be no problem, i.e. an accumulation of debt, etc. Resuscitation or the Resuscitation Act has actually led to rationalization. I'm just going to give you an example at the Dubrovnik hospital that we're now getting with the fact that the recovery director isn't colored party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99311	Thank you very much, thank you. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99312	Yes, I said that opposition to the amendments would spoil something by alluding that all amendments to the government or most of them refuse to do so with the claim that they are not good. So it turns out that the opposition is ruining everything in Parliament. And as for the founders' responsibilities and what they're guilty of is, twice so far two and four years ago, and the minister, if you're going to follow him to this, I said the following information: "Zupanian hospital Čakovec counts BO days, now it's called PT number, BB days, the number of days of hospital lying down on average 6,3, number of beds per thousand inhabitants 2.9, the use of the bed 80%, the processing of Grevitating patients 84%, the daily hospital 28 beds, the structure of the staff of health staff 76%." See the criteria and data in this document. These are now standards and criteria introduced even with some goals that we would like to achieve from the use of the bed 80%. And you know what's been going on with this Chakovec Hospital so far? She had one of the smallest budgets, or monthly limits, that had been reduced all the time and was constantly punished because for the first time, some standards and goals had been written had already been reached in earlier years, and no one wanted to listen to it. of some of these criteria and elements of many hospitals in Croatia should have had half a month's limit, but it was a punishment of an even-aged hospital and all you say is the founder is responsible. Please go run one such hospital and you'll see when the other is setting you a financial destiny, and you have all the standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99313	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99314	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Lesar, you have used the word recovery and you have problem with the word in different ways and that the main problem of Croatian hospitals is management. Rehabilitation is a word abused by the Ministry of Health to justify the memory of previous staff in all Croatian hospitals. And I suggest that we stop fooling ourselves, with a recovery and a resolutional manager. If one of the walls is to fall, then we say that the wall needs to be repaired, you buy concrete, stone, iron, statisticians calculate, and the wall is rescheduled, and it lasts for the next 200 years, ready to resuscitate. If he fell afterwards, the person who created the project and who financed it must answer. And the rescue has fallen, and we have proof that the minister has changed those restitutional managers, replaced them. So we have proof. But let's let it go. It's a piece of footage for the previous reason, which is stupid. If there were any good personnel, so you can't create any director and give him a management school or anything in a hospital like Split, 3.5 employees, it's a state of state, a city in the city. It has from unqualified people to academics and all the professions, all the possible interests, it's one serious thing, too complicated. And you can't even create that management overnight for a good director, they're ordinary people, etc. But I don't have time in two minutes. I mean, you need to go from the furniture in the furniture to the profiling of good personnel and new furniture so that it doesn't replace the personnel who proved to be good than to support them, and that's how we're gonna get to good administration. And what will now be said here's the minister says in a Split hospital, will bring in a mayor of Split, who is in a downer, more than the Greek city of Split. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99315	You want to answer to your colleague, Lesar? No, I don't. And Darko Milinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99316	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you said the costs were going to rise, and it will continue to grow. Ten years ago, you couldn't imagine when you went into the hospital that you were going to go to a magnet or a CT. Now you can't imagine getting out of the hospital without doing it or sore throats, so we're taking it as a doctor's responsibility, so it's usually a sore throat if you want to do something called leukocytes and a differential blood count. But almost all the doctors are leukocytes, differential blood, take out the iron, let's see the copper, let's see the alkaline, give the gamma GT everything you make, wasted money. The document that you said was withdrawn, it was withdrawn for another reason you said it requires two billion new kunas. This is exactly what this document is, if we are to reduce the rate of acute treatment by 10%, reduce the number of days of treatment, increase the daily surgery required to invest in equipment in the coma and in the space. And last year 350 million kuna was reduced capital investment in health care to a budget the current minister had no impact on. As far as the limit is concerned, you're wrong, the limits remain. And today hospitals are operating with limitations, all hospitals in Croatia today are getting restrictions, and through the separation of HZZO from the Treasury, some restrictions will be increased, and that's good. It's just that not the number of days will have an impact on the invoice, but on the diagnostic and therapeutic procedure. Now there's the problem, the reference prices, how much does it cost, how much tonzilectomy does it cost us? 300 euros in Estonia, 400 euros in Slovenia, 600 euros in Slovenia. Let's find a reference price, so let's make it Slovenia and Estonia so it's going to cost us 500 euros, as we take the reference prices for medicines. In this way we also determine the price of medicines, so we can determine the price of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99317	Thank you. The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99318	Right, and I'm glad that you and I agree that in the future, the costs of the health system will only increase diagnostics and treatments. This is because of this technologically accelerated development which, in the case of diagnostic devices, equipment, new standards and requirements for editing space, new regulations that are there and therefore cannot be cheaper. Therefore, costs will be raised by both insurance and per capita and the total amount of funds that public health will need to be provided. And this part of the contracting of the service times the price equals the income of the institution, which is why I pointed out that part, that is the key issue of the reference price, at which price these services will be negotiated. If that price corresponds to and covers both costs, but also allows the institution itself to invest in its own if nothing else of its staff, training staff, we have already done something. With artificial pressure on low prices to be introduced as a system of bargaining and payment we will enter into new losses and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99319	Minister Sinisha Varga on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99320	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs and the MPs. Here's my thanks for the statement from Agent Lesar. I'll do it first, since it's apostrophealed immunologically, so let's get it off the agenda. As director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, I found on my desk in the portfolio that the owner, i.e. the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, owned 44% of the immune institution as a minority but not an absolute but majority owner of the Institute. The law on the management of state property management rights on those shares has been transferred to the State Administration for the management of state property and thus the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance has found itself in a situation on the one hand that has a member of the Supervisory Board and has no way of managing the institution itself. It's about measures in crisis years when they tried to consolidate the state and at the same time we came to know that privatisation was planned. Namely, I was warned several times then, and I stick to that warning today that it is a stock company quoted by the Zagreb Stock Exchange. And discussions related to shares, sales, privatisation, etc. is a very limited way of talking. And in order to be able to determine the consequences of reckless talks, given that it is also private property, it must be known that there are 26% of the small shareholders of the institution itself. Therefore, every conversation and every statement has an impact on the very price of the stock, and I kept my restrictions in public. What was happening in the background are very narrow talks primarily with the Ministry of Economy as a body of the state administration directly responsible for the process of resolving the issue of the immune institution, as well as with DUDI and with the CERP and all other agencies involved. And we have come to the common conclusion that there will be no privatisation of all 74% state-owned but the state will retain 25%+1 shares and thus retain the control package over the assembly itself. And now there is a process of deep recording by bidders, and very soon, the process will be completed where around 50 and some % of the portfolio itself will be purchased, shares in the government portfolio. HZZO will remain outside the budget fund 25%+1 shares. We agree on the modeality that it can actively manage its shares and thus the Croatian health system has preserved its salary in terms of price regulation, self-sufficiency and complete production as it has been so far, this means everything related to plasmapheresis, all related to biological vaccines developed and for many years in the Republic of Croatia and the export product is guaranteed by an foreign or domestic or foreign investor to be able to expand the production plant far and create an immunological establishment for those global players who deserve the place. As far as debt itself is concerned, it has been said repeatedly that the recovery plan was the first and most fundamentally unconsolidated health debt from 31.12.2011. was 7.6 billion kuna, it was consolidated debts within institutions mutually to 5.6 billion and the Resupply Act primarily had a function for the recovery of these old debts, so the functioning of the health system took place parallelly, payments and debts to wholesalers over 3 years and 31.12.2014 all the debt from this past period as defined by the law was fully paid by the Ministry of Finance through the state budget. In terms of governance, here I have also completed this postgraduate management study, I believe it is extremely useful and together to work with HZZO and other bodies in the healthcare system on the systematic education of all actors in the healthcare system not only the director but the head of departments, departments, clinics, everyone must know the minimum basics for the management of the health system and not just that. Here finally I will continue, once again, to point out that I believe in a solid and public health system, three databases of solidarity on which we insist and appreciate, and these are solidarity healthy with the sick, solidarity rich with the poor and solidarity of young people with the old. It is therefore three pillars of solidarity on which we base the Croatian health system and I will continue to insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99321	Thank you. Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99322	So watch this when you mention your health debts and your colleague, Lesar, said the more you do, does that mean you'll have more. Unfortunately, it still doesn't mean that. Because what Minister Ostojic did when he cut the hospital's drastic budgets. By reducing one favor. So I'm cartooning, you've had to do three operations to earn let's say 10 thousand kuna, when the reduced services are then you don't have to do three but six. Then what are you doing? You're making it bigger, buddy. And on the other hand, you've now increased certain prices of health care services by 10%, 20%. I understand why, because you've increased the hospital's limits because you couldn't fabricate everything. But I appreciate it, so I've done it myself, so I don't call it, and I've done it to get plus and minus at the end to be zero. But we need to get to the reference prices. I'll do it again. Croatia's C-section costs 800 euros, in Slovenia 2000 euros, in Estonia, 1000 euros. What's the real price of the C-section? I don't know. Maybe it's really these 800, maybe this is unreal in Germany 2500. So when we make reference prices for drugs, we have reference countries, let's try and do it. Because what's going to happen to you? Here I guarantee you here, those hospitals you're prefactoring won't pay them. That's this, if you do more, you'll create more debts and you won't get paid. And that's the problem with health care, that's my problem too, I was going to solve it, but it's changing us so I couldn't. And as far as these debt increases are concerned, actually health costs, it has to do with the insurance of hospitals and doctors. I see you're trying to do something about this, and while the doctor from the health care facility doesn't have certain and legal protection costs will grow, unnecessary treatment in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99323	Minister Sinisha Varga, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99324	I'm thanking you. It is again a complex issue regarding the valuation of the health service price itself. It can be started from cleavage to microstructure and counting how many buffers, how many building materials, how many medications, how many minutes, nurses, doctors, and accounting and hospital director's wages and anything that comes into the price of a single healthcare service. It may be based on the reference price procedure. We go by evolutionary procedure and we have our history of our prices both administrations and doctors are used to. They are something smaller than they are abroad and we always work in proportion to the amount of money available and now we address it on both sides. One thing we are constantly looking for is a way to increase the volume and amount of money in the Croatian health system, we are working to increase the volume of clinical trials in the Republic of Croatia as an extremely strong financial import product because it is almost all the import and foreign money that comes in the Republic of Croatia. The target is at year level reaching 10% of hospital budgets to be filled from clinical trials. On the other hand, we have a new administration, the Ministry of Health for Health Tourism, or for health services in tourism, so that, through the provision of tourist services, we also provide health services and thus increase hospital income and thus affect health services prices. What should also be pointed out is that we have a new contractual period. The basis for the contract is published on the HZZO website. The first 4 months are even higher prices of health services than they are today. These prices are tested, from 1.4. start the transition towards full payment at the service we believe will be completed by 31.12.200, but never at the hospital will be entirely all at the level of payment exclusively by service because there are always activities that must exist whether they are working or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99325	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99326	Mr. Minister, apart from HZZO, it seems to me that in Immunological something little they had at the Institute of Public Health and Pensions. Okay, okay. You said since stocks are listed on the stock market, you didn't want to affect prices on the market with your statements. But you see the devil, the withdrawal of his license to work at the Immunological Institute has had a huge impact on pricing. You were careful not to influence it through statements, and the second branch of the government was at the very moment when it was necessary to decide what further decided to withdraw the permits, part of the permit to the Immunological Institute. No one in this country will believe that it happened by accident, strictly respecting regulations. And secondly, I got a few days ago to answer my question why Immunology is not on the list of strategic investment projects, because I expected the state of Immunological in the public health interest to put it on the list of national investment strategic projects according to the law. What did the answer say about why Immunology isn't on the list? In response, he wrote to me because then the administration and the leadership that was all in one party, from one political party, never suggested it to anyone or asked for it. Whom did we put in place? Who did you put in charge of such institutions? What those smiths were interested in was that they could not recognize it, and you even feared public statements to affect the price. And these two other segments that affect the fate of this were doing everything not only to knock down the price obviously for some particular buyer, but who paid the cost of it? You ministers, for import expensive products that you had to supply to the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99327	Thank you. Do you want to answer the Minister's question?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99328	I'm thanking you. The fact is that HZZO as a customer of health services, HZZO doesn't even buy drugs directly but goes through health institutions. The Immunological Institute is an economic entity that... as a stock company listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, belongs to the economic branch of the production of medicines and HZZO, and neither does the Ministry of Health have a direct impact on it, except for that segment that views the institution as a domestic producer and a domestic supplier of medicines for the needs of the Croatian health system. Why isn't he from the strategic public here today I'm going to ask what the procedure is and give a suggestion to the management that absolutely immediately initiates the procedure to correct that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99329	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99330	Dear Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers. My colleague Lesar and my colleague Milinovic reminded me in some replicas of an episode of the British humorist series, I don't know if it was Yes, Minister or Yes Prime Minister, and I can't remember exactly which incendiary and series it happened in which one phenomenal new hospital in one London neighborhood is new, excellent, pure, all of its indicators are perfect. She doesn't make debts, she doesn't have a waiting list, she's absolutely perfect except she has one tiny problem with that hospital, she doesn't take patients. So, of course, when we talk about these big procedures, I agree that the first and the basic thing to keep in mind is that we are getting older, that the costs of treatment on the other hand are higher and the methods are more sophisticated and indeed right are all those who say that the costs of treatment can only grow, the standards we reach are increasing, but they also cost some amount of money, and in that sense these financial aspects should be kept in mind. And when the indicators are analyzed, the percentages, beds, days, nights, chairs, all that is part of this then of course you should first and foremost keep in mind the question whether it's all expensive to patients and brings good and figuratively express whether these hospitals really are patients or just doing statistics. So what we certainly need are new game rules because of all of these elements that I listed. And to us in HNS, this plan seems to be part of these big steps that we're going to have to do in the health care system if we want to keep it at the level that we have, let alone if we want to improve it. This plan includes hospitals of all levels except special hospitals and hospitals, all of which are the founders of states or units of local, regional self-government. It is important to stress that only basic activities are involved, it is explained why and how this other part will be further resolved. And it is based on these two already mentioned principles of subsidiarity and functional integration. And the principle of subsidiarity I wouldn't elaborate much, because it was already mentioned in the debate. I don't have much to add, but I want to point out that it's really a key principle, because this idea that service or business is done at the lowest level is actually a fundamental idea in this entire health care system that we want to have. If I understand it well, then it actually means that I'm not going for every sneezing or every coughing specialist on Rebro, but that really somewhere at some level that can also do as many services as possible and get. The second principle of functional integration opens up one potential problem, that if it is not implemented as we have imagined it, and as we have imagined it, we support it that we have a problem at least perceived less access to health services, and on the other hand, insufficiently visible integration and quality gains on the other hand. In that sense, I must say that for this strategy, if we allow ourselves to call this strategy the same important communication strategy of this strategy, because it has already happened to us in the political and administrative history of the Republic of Croatia that some good and important ideas have failed, not because they themselves were essentially bad, but because they were weak or uncommunicated, and then the resistance became so strong that they could no longer go on. But the authors are also aware of it, because in one place in this text there is even mentioning something in that sense that the matter should be well communicated but I want to make it especially clear. However, realistically not today, and that is also mentioned. Neither hospitals today have anything nor should they have, nor is it rational, nor can it be established. What is the problem today is that we should solve between ourselves and this document. It's not a problem that not every hospital has everything, but it's part of the solution in the long run. The problem is that the service is not uniform to us, that it is very unequal and that it is not only a question that has grown the privilege of the rich, but we actually have a situation where in some cases health becomes a privilege depending on where you live. So if, like me, you're lucky that you're two minutes on foot from the KBC Rebro then you have one kind of story, and if you're somewhere far away from serious health institutions, then you have the quality of service and availability of service that's completely different and that's the problem that needs to be solved anyway. In that sense, without this functional integration, we certainly won't be able to move on. She is the principle that absolutely seems to us to be applied. It's not just a question if I get it right, it's not just a question that when a hospital can't do something else. This is the question that those who do something do it together in co-ordinated and integrated cooperation so that, in this sense, in the service, it will go further and then create centres of excellence so that the service that we all, as citizens and patients, will ultimately get is top and best possible and that resources that are limited to maximum rational and maximum efficiency in this regard are exploited. And it is certain that excess overlaps that then actually slow down the story, which on the one hand create additional administrative and various other and jobs and costs, and do not go towards improving the service should be avoided. In this sense, this principle of functional integration is certainly something to be supported. The plan is based on four regions, i.e. 5 KBCs. Here is the central and northern with two, Zagreb East with Osijek, south with Split and west with Rijeka. And then of course only when we look at this map of Croatia from the four regions and the five KBCs and if we are ready it has nothing to do with politics or who was the minister, who is now the minister. If we're willing to look ourselves in the eye and admit ourselves there's a terrible lot of work there because the level is nowhere near even. And if we want to have a system that is on the one hand going on subsidiarity, on the other hand going on functional integration, then the first and primary task is that in these four regions we have approximately equal conditions for those who are users of these services, for all of us, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in any of their encounters with the health system. And it has nothing to do with some of our political, regional bickerings my hospital is better, your hospital is worse. It is unfortunately a built-in feller in the Croatian system of administration at all levels not only in health care. So, we at all levels in education, in public administration, everywhere, tax, wherever you turn, wherever you scratch, we have a problem with the marked inequality of service opportunities in that small territory of the Republic and then people depend on where they live actually in many possibilities to end. What I would also point out because it's mentioned, it seems important to me, is that this division in the regions doesn't have formal legal meaning so it's not in stone, it's seen for example. in Gospić and Virovitica, it is a kind of frame and orientation but it is not in stone carved so that it could not or should not work now, and it is good. But let's get back to the point of the story. So the point of this plan is to increase the efficiency of the entire system. If we look simply at the level of the input, at the level of the output what we want to achieve in theory is at least that with a smaller input we have a more realistic way out. The question that's being asked is that possible? Me, and us at the HNS club, we believe that's possible. Another question to ask is that easy? Of course not. It's a huge and difficult job, but it's also a huge and difficult system in every sense where there must be a rationalization reserve, and starting with these principles that are fundamental here and if we can make this happen even if it's a list of good wishes, but if we can make these beautiful wishes real, then we can talk about some serious successes in the health system. In that sense, we have a bed fill as one of the criteria, so we have an average hospital stay. Of course, we need to be careful because when the average stay decreases, then we can be costed by day. And go back for a moment for communication and the image of the whole story. If we're not careful enough, primarily you ministers and your organization, your ministry if we don't communicate carefully enough we'll have that kind of resistance here you see now they want to throw us away. Because people always get that impression now they're gonna throw us out of the hospital until we're cured, on the one hand. And on the other hand, it seems to me that all of us when we're patients or someone of ours when we're close, when these procedures are made by some who, up until a few years ago or a few dozen years ago, were lying in the hospital for a week, ten days, and now they come in the morning and they go home, they're all thrilled with that fact.' There's a procedure going on, and then he says, "I've been home this afternoon." And it's actually something that needs to be pursued and what people are trying to do, only that quality and the level of service should then be explained and well-explained, I think I'm using this most trivial dictionary to express that our resistance to this would not be unduly too strong. So we have a serious goal. 10 to 40% reduction in mean duration over the next 3 years. It's a big and serious goal and it's gonna take a lot of work. We have as a key increase in the proportion of the daily hospital, day-to-day surgery, medical services, and a reduction in the rate of acute hospital treatment. It's all been followed, of course, by a whole series of measures and figures that I wouldn't go into in detail right now. What I would like to further highlight is the financing system. So, I quote, which should certainly be brought into line with... so that the price of health services maintains a real price service plus this issue of payments, about which colleagues have already spoken. But I also want to highlight it as an important part of this, although it's formally relatively small, but it's an important part of this whole plan. And then, of course, everything together should result in increased efficiency, better availability, better quality service, which, of course, we support and as ideas, and it seems to us from this text at the level at which it is designed to produce it. And three, to end, are the dangers that I would like to point out in that sense, simply to think. The first danger is that we don't just go through this paper. Which would not be the first time in Croatian history that he remains a dead letter on paper. That should be avoided anyway. In this regard, we should also take note of the remarks, as we think, a fellow speaker, who is asking the question of the financial background of this whole story on the one hand and the question that it is a list of beautiful desires. I personally don't mind a list of good wishes because if you don't have a good wish, then you don't have a chance to make it happen. But maybe it's the same thing that should be addressed in the future. The second danger that we seem even greater than this first one that we do not fully implement is to go in the wrong direction and then try to meet some formal or some numbered criteria for reducing or increasing certain parameters to lose that quality level as well. So instead of going to the content and qualitative improvement of the story that we're actually focusing on some of these fixed numbers and all of those numbers that are still going to come forward, and in that sense we're actually losing content. It is a danger that always threatens reforms, especially with any reform that involves a level of reduction of anything, does not matter. So that is one systemic danger to be warned about and to be reckoned with. And finally, what I'm also saying is, it's not mentioned here, mentioning colleagues and fellow staff issues. It is certainly the frames and will be the frames of an increasingly crucial problem. It also seems to me that it should be said that in the implementation of such a plan and the implementation of a reform of the minister, one should see how those tops of the pyramids in Croatian health will react. My colleague Milinović spoke at one point about lobbys and interests, and if we look into our eyes, and I don't think we should lie to ourselves, we all know that our health care system is one of those systems where some elites and some tops of the pyramids were skeletal, petrified and very often, rather than being bearers of change and progress are actually brakes of development. And in that sense, it's the same hot potato that's going to have to first keep in mind and secondly be ready to take hands. Because without it, I'm afraid it won't work. In any case, the HNS supports this with the faith that it will indeed come to life and, of course, hope that it will actually come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99331	Vice President Zeljko Reiner's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99332	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my dear colleague Coleman, and I rarely agree with much of what you said. But there are a few things that I think must be said. You said that big steps should be taken and that I absolutely agree, should be implemented, I do not know which times I will say structural changes in Croatian health mostly in the way of sustainable financing of Croatian health. There is not a single word about it in this document, and that is the key problem of Croatian health care. I assure you all together that we can have such documents, and the government can deliver you tens and tens and we can talk about it, details etc. However, without structural reforms of Croatian health and clearly agreed sustainable financing, we will not get out of this situation. There are no letters here in this document. And that's why I said in the beginning that it's a list of good wishes, a list of good wishes that can be like that, whether it's 10% or 20%, and we don't see it as a 10% or 5% or 20%. Based on which to calculate, where are these calculations, why not 10% more or 10% less, where are the bases for that? There's no such thing here at all. One of the key problems of this document, which is why its credibility is very, very questionable because such good wishes can be well written by each of us, we would all like the health care to work better, if we had more money, to be more efficient but about how to implement it here doesn't write anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99333	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99334	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We actually agree with Reiner in most ways about what he writes, but we don't really agree on what he doesn't write. It's the most common point of the dispute, and so is here. I don't think that, I said in my statement that it seems to me that the remarks on financial justification and the financial base and the material base of this plan are not entirely unfounded. But I don't think he's bad or missed, though, and he's not just a list of nice desires because he goes much further than that. We would like the effectiveness of health care, and we would like everyone to be healthy and we would not want it to be a privilege for the rich people of Zagreb. It seems to me that this plan goes significantly further, so he lists a few things that need to be addressed here, he talks about how to form a hospital, he talks about how it works and together with these other documents that are being prepared and together with a strategy that we are two years ago if I'm not wrong to vote, he has a sense to me, he has a head and tail, he's something that can build a job both the ministries and hospital directors and all those who run the hospital system. And in that sense, I don't think he's bad or that he's inapplicable by agreeing in part with the fact that maybe that financial base should be analyzed in more detail, but without it, I think this is a solid document that can really be useful and can direct us to the development of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99335	Darko Milinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99336	You've said well in many ways we agree. I mentioned a few details where this document is contradictory to itself. So you said subsidiarity, so health care at the lowest level. We all agree here, but then it cannot stand in this document that the concentration of medical staff and equipment in one place will carry out more effective health care and will reduce waiting lists. It's the opposite of what we're all after. I don't know if you have any medical contact but I see you understand, or if you've studied this document well. So only by pumping up some numbers in health care can there be a reduced level of health care quality. It's said here 10% to reduce the number of patients treated in intensive care. So today I have a year in Croatia, I think there are about 8,000 people who suffer from a heart attack, as we're going to say, we're not going to take all 8 thousand of you to the intensive one, but we're going to have to get you 7200, so we're going to have to cut you down 10%. And you're right, it can reduce the quality of health care. You said the reduction in average hospital stay could affect the increase in prices per day. It can't be around to be educated, so here you are today, here I often mention a C-section, you get 800 euros for the C-section, no matter how much the patient will be in the hospital, one, two or ten days, it costs 800 euros and 800 euros you get. It used to be a way to get 500 euros for this service and to get 100 euros for every BO day. And then you hold that patient for 15 days to pump up the invoices and we're still going to let the patients go, and I've been doing it, so let the patients go home for 10 days just to get the invoice so you can double-cross HZO to get some new ones that don't really belong to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99337	Now you've signed up for a colleague, and now you've signed up for illegal work. ... Igor Coleman's reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99338	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I did not experience these two elements that you mentioned, so on the one hand, the subsidiarity of services at the lowest level, and on the other hand the concentration in some way of excellence as two contradictory things. These are two things that go parallel, so we will, among other things, if I read it well, and there the minister can intervene if he seems to be misreading or misreading, so on the one hand, we want to achieve a system discharge in that sense in which he may be unduly burdened at higher levels today to express himself and there may be some things that could be done both in primary, medical and daily hospitals. And on the other hand, the functional integration through which we then achieve the concentration of knowledge, new technologies, the application of new knowledge of everything that is additional value when the centres start to specialize in certain parts of the work, it doesn't seem to be contrary to subsidiarity, however, these are two processes that go parallel. So in order for functional integration to be possible in the sense in which it is this plan, it seems to me that, on the other hand, there must be a parallelity of subsidiarity which will then dissipate the system from unnecessary as the cost-cost procedure, so it seems to me that somewhere it is imagined at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99339	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99340	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Coleman, you've highlighted one moment that's very important, and there's a lot of talk about him today. It's probably not clear to the citizens, and that's why it's good for you to talk about it, and I'll look back on it. Sussidiary and functional integration, it means nothing to citizens, and now it is very important to the extent to which we will convey it correctly, that we are not slaves to some local local local patient relationship to the health system, but that our only goal is to increase the quality of health services. If we look at what this subsidiarity means, then the provision of health care at the lowest level that is most effective, and if we have the data, we have heard that we do not see where this data is from, so the plan says that only on this basis in 6 months has decreased by 101,561 unnecessary days of hospital treatment, which is 35 million kuna. But that's why this subsidiarity is really good and important. The second is functional integration, I am most afraid that politicians will stop functional integration because they will not have a health service goal in the first place, a better quality health service. What does functional integration mean? We have two hospitals, hospital A, hospital B, we have one department that has five beds, and the other six beds, that one can no longer satisfy, but that department has one joke and this one has, that's two bosses. Everyone has a sister, they're two main sisters, they have an administration, they're two administrations, and both are not optimal for the quality of health services. Now we're going to integrate these two departments into two hospitals, not lose the legal personality of any hospital will continue to exist in hospital A and hospital B, but let's say beds stationary only at hospital A, and in hospital B will be specialist-consular protection, day hospital and thus increase the quality of health care services. So what's most important for the quality of health care, is that the number of doctors of absolutes, is that the number of sisters of absolutes? No, the highest quality health systems have the most optimal number of nurses and doctors per bed. It's done with this model.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99341	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99342	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. I agree absolutely with my colleague Jovanovic with you. The quality of health services is something that is a priority goal, I think, in this document, that it is set as such. But you're right you're gonna need a story to explain well because we have one now while you're talking, it's occurred to me a crazy situation in which we say in the Republic of Croatia when you ask an average citizen on the street it seems to me that you're asking him where he'd go to treat himself then most of you would tell you in Geneva or in America or in Vienna depending on what. Why shouldn't it be Gospić if it's some kind of procedure or Osijek if it's some other kind of disease, so it seems to me like an idea. The idea of home resources is to use the best we can and that where people are excellent in some or some areas that there is then some natural selection to express the creation of centers that are then really excellent and which, by the very fact that it is focused there, have that added value then progress and synergy through all of that. And what you said about politicians stopping the process, I'd just add in the context of what I've done more or less with my exposure, I'm just afraid that it wouldn't happen that these processes are the most braked by "politicals" in the system itself because we know that this system is cross-netted with politics, not with this one of ours, but with a policy within the system that's hard to break through, but that's what all the colleagues here are doctors here, Milinovic, I'm not talking to you in my head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99343	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99344	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Coleman has no intention of stopping anything, but I'm glad to see every improvement in health care, and I'm sure we're very interested. But you spoke in the debate on the cost of growing health care, growing at EU level 5 to 10% certainly, and with us for the reasons you talked about and thank God for the extension of life expectancy and equipment, of course, and the drugs are there... not to get into this whole problem right now. But it certainly requires certain standards and equipment and space, and you asked if it serves. It requires very capital investment that every environment calls out for. We've heard from nine projects out there, so here's what I've been talking about in the middle of it, but not at the level of what would be done now, like those consultants who are that 200 grand strategy, so they say we go over the fence somewhere, break through some wall. No, no, no, but to do what was promised what was said. Here's my middle cry out for that pediatrician they were coming over, passing through, leaving, promising, the paperwork was supplementing, but it's not. That's what we're waiting for. Because I agree with you, certainly not all of you are lucky to live two minutes from Rebra and now let's say if it's the same right now, and now you say you're two minutes from the rib, so now you come to your doctor and he clicks there in 2016, I believe you'll try to ask someone in the crosswalk to maybe 2015, maybe somewhere early. But that peasant of mine, a farmer who is 50km away from the first hospital, he has to leave very early, he has to pay travel expenses and is certainly interested in achieving his health care service at the nearest facility, it will also contribute to the quality of life of course and the availability of health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99345	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99346	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Milinkovic, we agree, that the cost of growth we have concluded and it is certain that we cannot expect them to ever again, O.K. Perhaps with some revolutionary new discoveries, but so far it is not predictable that health costs could begin to fall especially in view of these demographic trends. Recently, a friend of mine who deals with finance and investment told me if you have, I don't, but if you have some money on the side to invest in anything about taking care of old people. Anything, health care, accompanying equipment, services, so it's a segment that is exponentially growing and in that sense health is the most exposed and the most actually cost there is then going to health care. As far as the same service is concerned, it is something I often talk about in the Croatian Parliament about one of the fundamental ideas of my political action, I think that the same chances in some basic systems are the essence of being a state. It's a system of education I often talk about equal chances. So it can't happen because I'm from Vukovar or Osijek or Virovitica that I have less education than if I'm from Split, Zagreb, Rijeka and Pula. It must also not happen that the fact that I live somewhere my ability to have access to healthcare is diminishing. It doesn't necessarily mean that I don't have to have KBC Rebro for 2 minutes but that means I have to have the possibility and you're thinking about it talking about travel costs and everything. So there must be a possibility, so if some service is being done on the Rebr, now we've taken this Rebro but it's only as an example, if it's working in KBC Osijek and I'm from Split, then I have to have an option. And there's gonna be a lot of problems, there's gonna be a part of the problem with... By integration when it really comes to life and we hope it will because that one whole part of those accompanying situations and costs will then need somewhere in that story to compose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you're right, it can't be a fact that I live here to limit my ability to get health care or someone who lives there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99347	Ivana Posavec The guilty, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99348	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Coleman, you encouraged me at the moment that you stood up and, in fact, throughout your entire debate, you've advocated the availability of health care. And here and now they're responding to the replica of your colleague you mentioned it again. And I think that's the goal of all of us here. Indeed to have an advantage as you mentioned living 2 minutes from the Clinical Hospital Center Rebro is immeasurable it may be incomprehensible for many residents of the Republic of Croatia but I will not go that far. Here I will stay here on the ring of the city of Zagreb, in Zagreb County. I will stay in the county which is surrounded by the city of Zagreb which really has the largest number of clinical hospital centres and hospitals and general hospitals in the county that do not have the only one in Croatia and even for this has an excuse because we need to be rational and we need to know how far away we are and how far away we have something in the city of Zagreb. But this availability begins to be reconsidered at a time when the inhabitants of Zagreb County do not actually have as much available health care as the rest of Croatia and primarily from the point of view of emergency medical services. Because for the entire Zagreb County, 318 thousand inhabitants are all there are 30 teams of emergency medical services that cannot serve fully properly and in good time because the needs are about the right size of 50 teams. And I'm sure that actually this national development plan is one start, is one I'll say so even start up to look at it all and to improve the picture, to take into account these fewer levels of availability of healthcare that we can fix when we fix all relations inside hospitals, to free up resources and actually allow all residents to have equal access to health care in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99349	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99350	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues agree with everything you've said I'll only have two sentences, the availability that certainly but the availability not of any kind. And that seems to me that the greatest value of this is actually not the availability of anything, the availability of quality, that's the point. And that availability doesn't need to be perceived by mileage because I prefer a great service 50km from me rather than a mediocre or a bad 50m from me. I don't need this, and none of us in Croatia need bad health in the neighborhood. I'm much better off having excellent health care, even if it's a little further. And it seems to me that it is actually one of the fundamental values of this plan, the resources are limited, they are not limited because we are Croatia or because it is a matter of health rather than because by definition the resources in our lives are limited to whatever activity we are talking about and these resources should be used most rationally. And in that sense this plan seems to me a good and important step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99351	Hope Murganic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99352	Well, here's my colleague Coleman and I will talk about this availability not because we're not imaginative but obviously because we all thought it was very important because those services, health services, are a significant and legal and constitutional obligation, are made possible by every citizen of ours. Of course, we also read this availability from this national programme differently, and I would not want this replica to be in terms of criticism but to point out that we still have a lot to do on this very availability. No matter how you tell me, you say it's not about mileage, it's about availability to some quality. Those who are closer to the big centres and we know that they will be stronger and staffed will also be in a more favourable situation. I'd just say, I'm not going to name a hospital, so for one ordinary span, we know what a spin is when it falls into the eye we don't have a doctor ophthalmologist around about 60, 70 km maybe more than 18 hours because they've been suspended for rationalization and maybe for this kind of interpretation of integration we should do then we can say for ourselves that this availability isn't the same for you or for me to walk to the hospital. And in this plan there is certainly daily hospitals and day-to-day surgery, and the patients welcome it and welcome us all. However, we must keep in mind that the daily hospital, especially day-to-day surgery, cannot be used equally if we have our large area of nursing single households where we do not even have organised primary healthcare for more than 8 hours a day, if we have that we do not have health care and home care in these areas. You see from the reports how poor and poor our old people live.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99353	Thank you very much. Igor Coleman, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99354	And this investment in the old I'd be happy to accept it very skeptically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99355	Comrades, time. Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99356	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. I think it's a good fact that this debate is being held in a calm and complex tone and that it really does seem to me that unfortunately it is not or fortunately always the case in the Croatian Parliament, depends on which side you look and then we actually come to what we started with. So I think this plan has two key elements that go parallel. One is functional integration, and now I'm going to expand that interpretation a little bit further as we see it. So this is actually about more sophisticated procedures, more sophisticated services, the higher level of health services. On the other hand, there is a parallel story of subsidiarity which, on the one hand, relieves the part of the system that is not to be dealt with, and on the other hand, this availability that we are constantly talking about and physically approaching citizens in the part in which it is possible, and it is not until the end.... So we, on the one hand, have through subsidiarity, have physical availability, that's this so that I can go home as much as I can do, and on the other hand we have quality availability. That means I'm available in my country, in my system the maximum quality I can achieve. In that sense, it seems to me an integrated and logically rounded proposal and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99357	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Coleman, I've been asked to take my word for it because in your debate, it seems to me at some point that you have raised a dilemma as to whether the implementation of this plan will be successful or unsuccessful and you have spoken of hierarchy, pyramids, etc. That's what asked me to come forward and set an example and explain why, for example, County hospital in Pula, Varazdin, Zadar, Slavonski Brod are approximately equal hospitals by number of beds, professional staff, equipment etc. However, I know of the General Hospital in Slavonski Brod County that in the last 15 years she has done positive business. And what's going on, those people who've been running it for 15 years and more, no, no, no, you don't need it anymore, you don't need it. What am I saying? In order for some work to be successfully completed, the people who know how to do this work, not to share them in ours and yours. I don't think that was right at the time. In the debates of the segment, some friends have touched each other in human terms. It surprised me too, for example. which you did not say in the debate a month or two ago when one person asked me to, an esteemed representative where you can be in Croatia, in which the establishment nostrates the document e.g. A pharmaceutical technician, and a diploma was acquired outside the Republic of Croatia. I started with the Ministry of Education, from the Agency for Professional Education, the Ministry of Health, and eventually they'll be working chambers when we pass the law on that. So these people, I don't know how long they're gonna wait, and I've talked about it a little bit with the minister, so here we are living and seeing. It's my desire to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99359	Thank you. Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99360	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. I agree that the resources in Croatia are limited in every respect and so is humane, especially that perhaps you shouldn't really look at political colors. But I wasn't saying, when I mentioned resistance in the system, I wasn't just talking about the situation of hospital directors coming and going. I'm not a doctor, but there are a lot of doctors here so let me be corrected by any of them who thinks I'm wrong. Our system, within health care, exists, and here is the former Minister Milinović talking about lobbys, interests, so there are stoned clicks that support each other, changing formally in some places, at some levels lower than hospital directors, but they are actually very difficult to pass, they are very difficult to pass on to young doctors. I'm not saying it by heart, so I have because I'm that generation that I am people coming to me, young doctors who have a problem inside that system to use, have a problem of progress, advancements going by some unusual criteria that I'm not getting into these details right now, you all probably have these experiences. This is what I was talking about because such situations are always a great resistance and any kind of reform and whatever, these are always the situations where the status quo is the greatest value and any change immediately comes upon the knife because it violates the status quo that has been established there, and most often it is about some material status interests to be completely honest here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99361	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99362	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Coleman, you said that some good ideas were not well-communicated and that they were given up under public pressure and some lobbies, circles. What kind of government gives up their ideas? And you know what your problem is and these furniture? You came to power without any idea, not just in health care, but in any other segment of life and governance of the state. You came up with no idea, because if you had an idea in health care, we're talking about health care today, so you wouldn't be paying the French company actually Serbs and Bosnians to write to us here what we need to do in Croatia. And how did you come to power? So when you come to power, you need to know what you're going to do, how you're going to do, at what rate. The government is also government, it has power and it has ruined this country as far as this mandate is concerned and there is no repair. Nothing's gonna happen. There's so much money in the budget for health care this year. They're gonna have to re-enter the New York Stock Exchange to pay for something we're gonna spend, and we don't have any money for that either. No management, no new managers. Can best from Pula 40 nurses go for that management, lift... To Kragujevac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Kragujevac and most of them passed 10, 11 exams in one day. We had this at the last meeting, which my colleague Jovanovic officially made out of official circles. Directly Pula – Kragujevac, in one day 11 exams. And now you're going to raise our quality of Croatian health care? Oh, please! He won't! We just have our own brains, determined government, good programs need to know what we want, we need to save health care to save the Croatian state. And that means if we have 20 billion harvests, we need 20 billion to cover ourselves in everything that is necessary for Croatian citizens to save their health, which is not necessarily left behind and that's the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99363	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99364	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Not much, but there's one thing I'd like to comment on, so let's keep it for the record and history. I agree with you, colleague Marasovic, that God does not know what kind of message from the government to give up its ideas and projects. I agree with that. The government has a responsibility to implement its projects and ideas. In that sense, I have also highlighted some of the things that seem to be dangerous to us in this story, and in this sense we support this plan with full awareness and responsibility of all those who participate, that we have come out in public with it, that we hope to really agree or large majority of the votes in this House to support and that there is no back then, that it really can't and can't be back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99365	My colleagues and colleagues, we'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first in line will be counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Thank you. It's 13,17 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99366	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDSSB club, a respected representative, Drazen Djurovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. I will try not to repeat everything that has been said before for a short period of time and for some approximately trying to constructively contribute to this discussion of the document. There have already been more objections about his name itself, perhaps, and if I can make a proposal that the document is called the National Plan for the Development of Hospitals in February-November 2015, perhaps we should define the period during which such a national plan would take place and implement it. These general items are more or less fully clear, I don't know if it makes sense to talk about that the governance system in Croatian hospitals is relatively not modern or effective enough, that the demographic structure of the population has changed, that it needs of course greater flexibility of the system, better coordination and similar it is quite clear but these are more than some general positions that we can apply almost to any system. What is really, in every country is very often compared, is compared to the judiciary and health care. In both Croatia and we often apply these two systems or observe judges and doctors, and I think that one point that is quite often present in the Croatian public opinion that the judiciary or the judiciary is actually the cancer of Croatian society's wounds is one rather common point in Croatian society that Croatian healthcare is actually one of the few bright points of Croatian society. And that Croatian health care and the Croatian health system is actually significantly above the level of most other systems operating in the Croatian state. Even above, very often and above the real financial possibilities of the Croatian state. Not since yesterday, not since the term of office of this government, but back over the years. The principles mentioned also when we talk about subsidiarity or trying to solve a health problem as low as possible or an earlier point of the health system, I think we're talking about a practical print that had the same idea. So it's an idea that we don't have to particularly put into the principle of a national plan, but it's one concept that goes from Andrija Printar to today's day with the idea of actually trying to prevent it first and then at the primary level and then towards higher levels of care to get rid of it. Of course, what happens is reverse processes happen. I don't know if and I'm not sure how much this is really emphasized here, it's not a question that it's clear to all of us what should be done but to process it, and I think it would be given analytically and chronologically very systematically and thoroughly and to determine that the processes are actually a detachment of the number of cases from prevention and primary health care both in... towards increasing levels actually solving these problems. When it comes to categorization of institutions, I would have some objections or suggestions or reflections. So national hospitals, county hospitals of regional importance, county hospitals and local hospitals were divided. When it comes to national hospitals, so there are all KBCs and clinical hospitals, there is the Zazazna hospital, there is the clinic in Klaic and there is the clinic for orthopedics Lovran. I will express my regret and regret that they have disappeared and not for the term of office of this government, which is, for example, the Gynaecological Diseases Clinic in Petrovo, which is now part of KBC Zagreb but is no longer a separate institution. I will express my disdain for the fact that an institution founded in 1921 that once had the status of a royal clinic today no longer exists as a legal person, as a centre of excellence for the treatment of gynological diseases, has already been drowned in one KBC Zagreb. They'd say absorbed. A similar process took place with another centre of excellence from another specific area, although the institution is a slightly newer date, it is a clinic for traumatology in Draskovice, which was also a very recognizable institution throughout the Republic of Croatia, a reference centre for several separate pathologies that was somehow drowned, not so in the term of this government, drowned in the Sister of Mercy Clinical Hospital. And I will mention a third example that may be least significant but it is also one example of this model of absorbing the centers of actually excellence, which is a clinic for pulmonary diseases Jordanovac which is also an institution with a long history, a long tradition has been highly specialized at national level as one recognizable institution for a specific group of diseases and which is also drowned in KBC Zagreb. Personally, I supported it, nor would I support it today, and it would be good if these centres of excellence as separate institutions remained as it is today and today is categorized as a national hospital in the highest-ranking orthopedic clinic in Lovran. Where was the orthopedic clinic in Lovran when she was the orthopedic clinic at Shalata? And today, the Lovran orthopedic clinic exists, it develops as a national centre, and it is good to develop, and where today is the clinic for orthopedics of the former Shalata, that there is one of the clinics in one major system. Why, why am I saying that? It's not just a merger problem, so there are two problems one is the financial nature of the other is a question of quality and development of the profession. The fact is that we have at our disposal 18 or 18.5 billion kunas annually, that we spend a billion, two or three kunas more than we have available, and that there is a need for this system to be truly financially optimised and to bring ourselves into a situation that we can't spend or in health care of that money that is not available. On the other hand, this process that has been working backwards for several years and continues through these national guidelines could actually damage the development of quality, the development of profession, the development of autonomy of certain institutions, and this institution, which I have mentioned now, have had a really long, long history in several countries, and have disappeared in the blink of an eye according to the directive of some reforms, very strange ideas and quite dubious results. When it comes to the idea, let's look at the structure of the bed now, so 83% of the acute beds, 13% of the day hospital and 4% of the beds of chronic and paliative care. So out of 40,000 total hospital beds it's somewhere the structure of the current resources in the hospital system. The idea is next, let's move to solve the problem as quickly as possible in the hospital. We can say it freely that it's called the Americanization of the health system, so the Americanization of the health system is your idea to heal quickly, heal strongly, heal briefly. It is one model that has today hit Europe with the goal of reducing the costs of the health system. The treatment guidelines adopted today are generally accepted, so today all the algorithms that exist are configured, these are now the types of pharmacotherapy that are being applied, these are today the surgical techniques that are being used and, of course, we as a small country can't do something special but fit into that algorithm. We in the province hospitals have one serious problem, which is that many people who come from the village, who come from certain living conditions, you can't approach them in the same way as some people who have their own car, who live on 15 minutes drive to the hospital, who have different conditions if you want hygiene and other conditions in their homes. You have a problem with that man if you're going to perform one surgery in the day hospital and in the morning and afternoon let him go home, problem complications, problem care, problem transport, problem coming tomorrow to the bandage, problem coming too day after tomorrow to change, problem control. So that's the reality that exists. We don't have enough logistics resources to cover it, so we don't have a Sanitary transport so I rule out an emergency that is very often becoming only a sanitary transport in many cases, but we don't have the resources of sanity transportation enough, but we can't possibly afford them that can be covered and we're forced to keep many such patients in many Croatian hospitals and not leave them with such daily care and layoffs at home because they simply don't have their own living resources and conditions that allow them to be provided by such a model. And you simply have the same pathology that's called acute bile you can really solve in one-day surgery, and sometimes in the exact same case, the same problem, the same man you unfortunately have to solve in a way that man needs to stay in the hospital for 8 days until the end comes down. Unfortunately, it is a Croatian reality, it is what it is. When it comes to the equipment of Croatian institutions, since no one has mentioned it, I will say of 24 magnets or devices for magnetic resonance 11 are located in the City of Zagreb, and the remaining 13 are located in the Republic of Croatia, everywhere outside the City of Zagreb. So this is an enormous disproportionate, for example, availability of magnetic resonance devices, that I'm not speaking here now has no particular indication of how spiraling they are, pardon these magnets, and CT 23 are located in the city of Zagreb, 36 is located in the rest of Croatia of 59 CT devices in the Republic of Croatia, with the question of these remaining 36 how many of them are at the level of this 23 that are located in the city of Zagreb. Of the linear accelerators, it is good that there are 9 in the city of Zagreb, but there are 6 in the rest of Croatia, so in all other clinical centres. To the side of all lower-ranking hospitals. And then, of course, what do we have? Then we have the tightness of Zagreb hospitals that famous problem which I will not mention at all in the city of Zagreb there is no difference between the middle and the higher level of care of patients. And finally, of course, this financial moment which is what it is and which cannot be solved by the tail, and for years it has been trying to get rid of the tail, and the tail of that problem is, of course, the users of the institution. Health has no price, but everyone we work in the system knows that the treatment has a price, a specific price that includes material costs, the cost of a network that is applied, the implant, the cost of the gas that is spent, so this treatment has a price regardless of health. And this treatment of the Republic of Croatia at this level is very difficult to pay off today. So the answer can only be from the center, it's health insurance. It is my opinion that the health insurance reform will have to include, in addition to the exit of HZZO from the state treasury, the introduction of more insurance companies because, as far as I know, the Republic of Slovenia is today the only country with one state-owned insurance company, the definition of packages, the introduction of competition, the establishment of contractual private real contractual relations between service providers and service providers where the state will be one regulator of these relationships and guarantee the network, and market relations will form quality and supply. I think without it, we're gonna pull it this way, as far as it's gonna go, but it's hardly going to hold our breath like this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99368	Thank you. We move on to replicas that are exactly 7. The first one will be presented by the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Djurovic, I agree with the good part of what you said. I completely agree with the fact that it would be worth changing the title to be February by November 2015 because it obviously doesn't even extend the whole story any longer, and neither would it be realistic to go any further. However, I agree with what you said, and this should be pointed out once again, that Croatian health care is one of the bright points in Croatia, but it should also be made very clear that this is primarily because of the great effort and the efforts of healthcare professionals in the profession, unfortunately which works with far too little resources for the level it provides. Treatment, as you yourself have said, has a price, and I fully agree with you that a key reform should be a reform of the way of health insurance and at all health financing. Because as I have said many times in this House without structural reforms in various areas, and among other things in health, nothing serious will change and nothing in terms of improvement or for patients or for the system will happen. We're talking about funding hospitals, and we know they're so-called. Hospital losses are completely unreal because the reduction of hospital limits and the value of DTS points, and the value of work, the scientific services provided by hospitals are completely impaired and before they are reduced. Before it happened last year and before last year, a good part of the hospital's institutions did business without loss despite the fact that most institutions invoiced more than they spent within a certain limit. Therefore, there is no problem in hospitals, nor is the problem in the financing system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99370	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99371	Thank you. So that we have repeatedly met with the fact that, as the Republic of Croatia, we are essentially trying to compare ourselves with countries in the environment of EU member states, so when we look at the price of gasoline, we say how much it costs in gasoline, when we look at the price of clothing, when we look at... when we look at the prices of everything that surrounds us. We who work know that in the healthcare system that service prices in Croatia are 3, 5 8 or 15 lower than the same services in health insurance systems, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany. None of us have the illusion that these prices can be evenly equalized or needed, but that disproportionate today is impossible, unsustainable. The idea that you said what we all saw, let's cut service prices so we'll increase the number of services was completely deplaced if those prices are really so low that it doesn't make any sense anymore. We've seen what happened to attempts to introduce superstandards that have fallen infamously. And it's simply a reality. We need to decide whether we are a more communist state or whether we are a European state of market economy established economies, democratic relations and whether we are going to start acting that way or trying to maintain some kind of false egalitarianism that only represents socialism, which we can no longer pay for. We've been raising him for 25 years now, but there won't be any more money. They all gave up on that system. We can't be the last mochicans to defend health socialism, they're not real patients, it's health socialism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99372	Second replica, the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99373	Thank you. Dear colleague, it is absolutely true that in our system it is necessary, this is what he was talking about now and fellow Reiner is changing the way of funding. One of the most important steps that has been taken here and this should be to commend the minister on the move so that HZO can be pulled out of the treasury. This is extremely important for the functioning of the health system. And on the other hand, I think that all those who have been monitoring health care in the Republic of Croatia will agree. And that's what's good. However, there is something else to send a message, finally after 20 years and a few years in Croatia, it should begin to change the system of evaluation of the work of healthcare professionals. We're still working on a blue book that's 20 and a few years old and we have absurd situations that when we calculate those points and points, let's say one tonsilectomy operation, let's say the tonsil surgery when you calculate everything, the whole team, so I think less than 200 kuna. So the total value of all those who do doctors, nurses, anesthesia, everything that... I mean, they are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not to mention one appendicitis surgery, it's a health care worker's job. So, the three things are necessary, one step is taken, it's detachment from the treasure, it's a bad move and it's good that it's back now. The second is to change the way of funding and the third is the next step here that we expect to do this is to start changing and outdated, an ancient way of evaluating the work of health workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99374	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99375	Well, you saw what happened to the previous minister, of course entrepreneurship has, entrepreneurs have a problem and the incompetence of the Croatian economy is present and the economy is burdened by the high actually contributions. And then they remembered how convenient it was to increase competitiveness and reduce the health contribution and when we asked how you were going to compensate for the lack of response that was not going to happen, I guess it was the idea that he would make up for himself, something would happen. Of course nothing happened, so the dubios just piled up. So you can't just take it and then expect it to fall off Mars because it never falls off Mars. So the changes that are actually, we are faced with the incompetence of the economy with a high burden of work. On the other hand, with a lack of resources in both health and pension systems. And instead of really trying, and in the term of one government at least moving in one direction something they've been looking for, it's all gone, they're back, and now they're waiting for another few months to get a shift of power. But it doesn't lead anywhere, it's lost, it's lost again for several years, and the public debt doesn't grow and the government's borrowing doesn't grow. It wouldn't be a problem for us as a society to create enough so it's there, so it can be delayed as long as it wants. But in conditions where Croatian society does not actually create enough value, when Croatian society really lives on the surplus money it borrows, it is measured in tens of billions of kunas we must begin to solve our problems with ourselves. One of the problems is the fact that Croatian society is becoming increasingly difficult to finance this current Croatian health system in this way, so find additional sources of income.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99376	Thank you. A new replica of respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who's already referred to this thing you're saying at the beginning, and I would agree with you when you said that our health system is just one of the light points, but I would not agree with you when you said that according to the third branch of the government, according to the judiciary that it's cancer of the Croatian society's wounds. I am very critical of the Croatian judiciary as well as of the citizens, however, and I also love the judiciary and I care very much about the citizens being satisfied with this judiciary. However, in this way, especially when MPs so debate it does not contribute to the improvement of the judiciary itself, and we all want this profession to rise rather than lower. Let's say, and that's why such professions shouldn't be looked through the case of whether we like the court's judgment in any case. Let's just say I don't like that someone put on their facebook profile a picture of Popeye and some plant that the police claimed was marijuana and punished him immediately 1000 kunas until, on the other hand, those who, on their own profiles or by other means, through social networks spread their hatred nothing happens to them. And I think that here as politicians we must be both leaders and other branches of government, that's what citizens expect of us. And let's do this fellow, as politicians we advocate light in every profession, we see what's good, we criticise what's wrong and let's not be song lovers, I'm not saying it's you, but unfortunately there are them in the politics of her verse "There will be thick fogs again.".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99378	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99379	Thank you. So when it comes to professions, of course, everyone loves their profession and tries to be as good and certainly as you do to love the judiciary and as your profession and calling it. I wasn't thinking about professions here. I was thinking about systems, so not people who work systems, but systems. And I don't think our judicial system is about where his problems have been brought but everyone who's from monitoring to different agencies to public change, so as long as you really want our judiciary stands relatively badly on any scale as a system not as people who work in it. While our health system also stands very well in all such similar comparisons regardless of who did them, there is no doubt, of course, that in either system they do 99% of the extremely high quality, good, honest people who try to do their job the best they can. I mean, there's no doubt about it at all, but this word in the front row was meant by systems, not by professions, or by people who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99380	A new replica, the esteemed Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99381	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djurović, in your discussion, you highlighted the concept of printers that we all support, looked back on subsidiarity and actually brought in some way in line with these two concepts, although what is provided for in the National Plan represents, in a way, modernising the printer's concept, a concept that requires 80% of the patient's problem to be solved in the doctor's office of family medicine. And you were also talking about that some trends from America are actually kind of the pressure that we're under right now, which, of course, isn't the key reason. The key reason is to raise the quality of health services. And I will repeat that in the Ministry of Health, an analysis has been carried out for only 15 single-day surgery procedures during 2013 and 2014, where there has been data that tens of thousands of hospital days have been spent needlessly because they were able to get rid of themselves through day-to-day surgery, and that immediately means huge millions of savings. Of course, it now imposes another concept, a concept of different patronage, of care in the house. Our patronages are more focused on chronic patients, with one-day surgery they also impose their different approach to help patients who have completed one-day surgery, which will be of particular importance in rural areas that cannot be the same as in Zagreb. So it's all actually written in the National Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99382	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99383	Thank you. And also that I forgot to mention, you've reminded me well now, so this National Plan, and so it says it's not even dealing with sub-specialist activities at all. Today all the professions, especially these major specializations are very additionally distributed into subspecializations and even within subspecialization... activities and if you then define work only through a few basic categorizations, and these are these specializations, namely internal surgery, pediatrics and gynecology, you actually let a lot of things out of sight at all. When you look at the distribution or availability of the health system, you often reminded me of it, and I will not now state of course what institutions it is, that some sub-specialistic activities have norms that must be developed at all, and that actually institutions that are in the neighborhood compete with each other and develop these institutions. Now there was the normative position of the ministry that you should actually say if you're going to develop this sub-specialist activity, you're going to be this one. Of course you can't say you're going to develop internal, you're going to develop surgery, but inside you could say you're developing this one, this one, and this one, and those three. This is national and so on when it comes to surgical subspecies. So this National Plan is at all disowning the handling of the team, in fact, partly and these activities. And on the other hand, when it comes to this concept of the number of beds, I would agree with the basic ideas, but we know what these beds are all about and the problem then the number of employees and upgrades and that relatively unfavourable share of administrative staff in many institutions and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99384	Next replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99385	Thank you very much. Comrade Đurović, you have come to your debate a long way from Professor Andrija Printar to the conclusion that we can no longer have how you said health care socialistly or how...... Egalitarian, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Although health care is still in operation, especially when it comes to the salaries of doctors and staff. So a surgeon has the same salary as a dermatologist, as a physicist and as much as any other, although the nature and nature of the job is not the same. So what I was going to say, and you were talking about the tail and we're going from the tail all the time, you see is 15% of the contribution, the outflow to health... and then 13% without explaining how we're going to make up for the 2 billion missing in the health system. He's at 15% again. Then the funding from the treasury or outside the treasury, now we're out of the treasure. Then outsourcing yes or no, if not then maybe spin off etc. That's what it looks like to me when you were already talking about a tail on an alumni like you do, I thought of a dog that grabs his tail and keeps running around and never catches it. Exactly. We always have a master plan, a national plan, a health development strategy until I don't know which years we've had that didn't say anything, and there's 300 pages. There's only the last few pages actually they call some kind of strategy. together, you and I have analyzed the health development strategy of Croatia. The reform of insurance or contributions or the financing of the health system is an acidic apple which, if we bite, will lead to inequality in society, to the fact that we have categories of population unequal. But when you and I cross 20,000 miles by car, we go neatly to the service and pay 500 to 800 kn oil replacement. No one asks a mechanic if you have that money, but you're going to give that money with no problem for your tin pet, for your health. For his health, a man asks a question about how it...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99386	Thank you. The replica matches Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99387	So I don't know, maybe someone can tell me where there's another such system within the European Union that the Republic of Croatia has today, in this way that we put not only in the same position at the beginning, but in the same position and in order for all insurance companies that are provided by any means and under any condition, no matter how many years they have, how many years of pension insurance training, how many months they spend in that system, can they pay more and not have similar. I do not know how many egalitarian systems there are in the EU at this time and whether there are such systems among such poor European countries as the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure it's not even richer. And instead of trying to pass it out in a way, not of course to question the health of the poor or the treatment of the poor. But to question the model and ask for answers that the Croatian health funding model is sustainable which so far has not actually been us closing our eyes and slowly time goes and the mandate for the mandate continues, and the problem cannot be solved, the dubioes arise. A few billion are accumulated every few years and then different models depend on the government who is in action is actually trying to patch it up. And again I say, we can reduce the number of beds in an attempt at hospitals, in an attempt to reduce the amount of money that goes towards these hospitals only the minister won't say, but we won't solve that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99388	A new replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99389	Thank you very much to my colleague Đurović. You said nicely on behalf of the club all our problems, but you also offered solutions. However, diagnostics are vital in clinical hospital centers. Thus, by looking at this national plan, we may also be able to say that this national plan will be adopted, but we often hear what makes our fellow citizens sick in the field, even when we are at a clinical hospital center called Osijek. In fact, 193 million clinical hospitals have obligations at the moment. But what worries the citizens of the city of Osijek and the people who are gravitating from the entire region of Slavonia and Baranja is precisely this clinical hospital center that has passed the almost mandate of this government and has not been obtained a CT. You were just saying that there are 6 CT devices in Croatia. A device that is very important for diagnostics for 4 years is held a tender for the purchase of CT for the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek and every year it fails. So what do we need national plans for, if we don't have people who are operationally aware of one of the most common CAT procurement bids for a million people who are gravitating that clinical hospital center? Therefore, it shows its dissatisfaction that in four years the CT device for the clinical hospital centre has not been obtained, but 193 million achieved obligations clearly speak of one carelessness for the clinical hospital center.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99390	Replication response, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99391	Thank you. As far as the CT device is concerned, it says in this National Plan proposal, so there are 59 in the Republic of Croatia, 23 in Zagreb and 36 in the rest of Croatia. What doesn't say is how many of these spiral CTs and what the ratio of conventional and spiral CTs are and where the spiral CTs are located. That would also be interesting to see. I fear that in this case the ratio of the metropolis and the rest of Croatia would be even more devastating for the rest of Croatia. And when it comes to these problems of our functioning, we have both ourselves and, of course, our health system within ourselves and without money, there are certain problems and we have certain weaknesses and shortcomings. One of these shortcomings is, in my opinion, one non-transparent relationship of private and public. Several governments have tried to resolve the problem of private and public work and no government has succeeded. And if we don't talk in the other part it's of course... A pharmaceutical industry that's strong, just strong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this problem of working in primary and public is the problem of our profession, but the profession cannot solve it. It can and will only have to be solved by politics, because of course it's a profession, we're all human and we have our own interests. And that's for people. And those who are in these problems happen to suffer publicly because of private and that is, Croatian reality. What policy and in which mandate will we be prepared to draw the line and when it will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99392	The last replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99393	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke to Đurovic about the kind of Americanization of the Croatian health system and how you said that treatment algorithms are being adjusted to reduce the number of lying down, so the number of BO days, and that it is actually substituting to daily hospitals. You pointed out that it is actually impossible to implement such a model in the way you told the provincial hospitals, because you simply cannot send a man into the rural environment home because there is no condition for him to recover or recover normally after surgery. So I personally believe that the principle of subsidiarity in this National Plan does not mean firing a patient after surgery if it would be risky for a patient. So when it comes to subsidiarity in this plan, it's about standards. So, the minister was also talking about how much financial savings would be if only part of the acute stationary treatment were substituted by daily hospital treatment. But I'm just guessing where it's possible, where it's not at the expense of the quality of treating patients. But that it must be saved, that rationalisation must be carried out in the health system must be carried out because Croatia simply has no fiscal capacity to maintain this level of health standard as it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99394	Replication response, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99395	Thank you. So you know what he was like, I don't know the protocol for a helicopter ten, fifteen years ago and what he's like today. I mean, we have the same pathology, almost the same medication, and five times the time we're taking these medications because that's how the protocols came to us now. And so it is with a whole series of pharmacotherapy protocols and so it is in surgery. We today have a different standard for treating the groin weight, the length of stay in the hospital, the speed of recovery than we had 15 years ago, using exactly the same polypoprilnet used. So nothing has changed except that we sharpened the standards and criteria of staying in the hospital and the speed of return to work. That's just what's going on. And the second thing I wanted to say is you know how many people today in the Republic of Croatia according to official statistics run by the Croatian Institute of Public Health die of natural causes? So no one dies of age in Croatia anymore. There is no more natural causes. In Croatia you can no longer die from age, if you die at 105 years of age in the late, old age you have died because you have stopped working your heart or experienced brain drain, so the Croatian Institute of Public Health is leading you into a group of those who died of cardiovascular disease or cerebrospinal disease. And what exactly is going on? In a way, statistics are partly distorted. So there's no natural death for you. Look at the state statistics, see also the statistics that run the professions. It's not normal to die anymore. When it's not normal to die, it's not normal to die at home, so you need to come to the hospital and then you'll raise the corner bed next to your hospital. Of course, Croatia has only 4% of chronic beds and must increase them. And so that circle just further deepens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99396	Thank you. The word now comes from the health minister, the respected Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you once again for the discussion, and even when it is criticised, I have the impression that segments of the document are recognized, which are particularly important for the future health system especially when it comes to hospital health care. I'm a little caught up with two things about the concept of structural reform and the issue of egalitarianity of the health system. Well, here's a little bit of a touch on those two topics that have now been discussed. The first and basic exit from the Treasury, the new model of contracting hospital health care and implementation of the national plan are structural reforms for the preservation of the Croatian health system, i.e. the Croatian model of hospital health care. It's a model that's good, it's got problems and we address these problems and we change them, and that part that's good we promote. So when it comes to structural reforms, I say again, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I express my concerns which is a deviation from the Croatian model of hospital health care, which is behind the words of structural reform when it is said that this is no longer possible, that it must be quite different? Personally, I believe that the Croatian public should know that I personally as a health minister and as long as I am a minister, I will fight against the decomposition of Croatian society, I will fight the privatisation of public Croatian hospitals and I will fight the privatisation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I believe that we have enough intelligence and enough public awareness that through the public service we can work responsibly and provide a very high level of health care to our citizens and guests in the Republic of Croatia. I'd only add one part to the development and the subsidiarity part. In fact, although this is an extremely foreign word and I unfortunately don't know a better word for this subsidiarity, so simply through examples you've given yourself I can also give an example, I've always loved most between a local hospital 70 km away from Zagreb for a very long time waiting for some procedures related to the bile operation. At the same time, it is waiting for the same operation in the City of Zagreb. And there are rare cases where, for example, lizard cancer, which is a highly specialized surgery is also waiting in Zagreb, and unfortunately it is not possible to get in order because there are a large number of people who need to operate on bruch or bile, waiting in line, in the same order as this pancreas operation, i.e. lizards. And now the question is what we want and what I'm appealing to you to support is that highly differential medicine is being done in highly differentiated health institutions. So, rare operations to concentrate on places where we have narrow specializations and people who often and routinely do very complicated procedures. And low differential procedures that every general specialist knows, e.g. abdominal surgeon, knows how to make it work in smaller differential centers. And it's going to be one process that's going to take years. It means that the average Zagreber will often go out of the City of Zagreb to perform a low differential medical procedure that almost every surgeon can perform. But that's how we've secured space in high differential centers, for example. KBCs, to have severe cancers there quickly, difficult conditions that are difficult to come by with the knowledge and experience of specialists and subspecies who know how to do it. When mentioned earlier, Slavonski Brod was specifically referred to as a successful hospital, so she was found in a recovery. I will mention once again, all the county-owned hospitals have voluntarily made decisions by the County Assembly have entered the recovery program. It is a programme of the Joint Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health where it is defined that the voluntary owner of the county surrenders his hospital to 3-year management for the recovery of debts accumulated over the long years. It is based on the law adopted in this House, it is a law that has made major shifts in resolution and we believe that through the application and master of the plan, the national plan and other measures that we will successfully complete this reform. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99398	The replicas this time are five. First vice president at Zeljko Reiner's house.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I must say, Mr. Minister, I don't understand, and somehow you started insinuating that the opposition would like to privatise health institutions. I can say here on behalf of the main opposition party that not only does no one advocate it, but we are very much advocating just socialized medicine and we believe that medicine must be socialized, but the real socialized medicine rather than what it is at this point when some have access and more perhaps than they need, and many do not even get what they need. However, in such a constitution, it is equally certain that none of the opposition advocates the privatisation of HZZO, as we clearly do not advocate what your government wants to implement, and that is the privatisation of highways, etc. etc. Therefore, let us not say things that simply do not stand. However, the fact is what you said in the end and today highly differentiated services are being done in highly differentiated hospitals and no county hospital is doing heart transplants. Therefore, this is no dramatic turn and no new one to be implemented. And today county hospitals are supposed to be doing some surgery, but I'm asking why the subsidiarity that actually exists today is now being put in here, so it exists, long ago, but the question is why isn't it being implemented today? And it's not being implemented because it's not settled financially and there are no mechanisms, no mechanisms have been created that would actually "make the" county hospitals do the job they can and must do without people having to leave one hospital to another. Implementation, it's simply a matter of implementation, not some revolutionary procedure, because there are no revolutionary behaviors in this document here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99400	The replica corresponds to Minister Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99401	Well, here I am thanking you and thank you for recognising that there is no revolution here. This is an evolutionary process, a three-year process that we advocate improving the health system through certain stages that are intended to be implemented. We have now recently completed the process of defining the difference between highly differential medical procedures and those of low differentials in collaboration with all associations of the Croatian Medical Assembly where the catalogue was made and the difference between health services that can be exclusively worked in KBCs, which are those services that are sought and favoured to be performed in general and county hospitals. So it's something that's not a situation today, long and long over the years it's been de facto let's almost say indifference on order, work and discipline in the health system that knows exactly who can do what, in which instances, with which equipment and under what circumstances. Unfortunately, we had especially surgeons who tend to tell even the avant-garde that certain medical procedures for which they have no routine, have no experience read in the medical journal and go unsupervised. It's something that while I'm a minister we want to eradicate, eradicate, and that such things don't happen. If any surgeon wants an extravagant, rare, medical procedure, then we will do it organizedly for him to attend or assist or conduct himself under supervision at clinical hospital centres and not to be without adequate assistance and without adequate equipment he does it in county hospitals. It doesn't happen often, but unfortunately it does. We have too many court cases, and unfortunately, it's the one phenomenon that we all have to work together to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99402	Thank you. The new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99403	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said literally detachment of the treasure is structural reform. That's just not true. It's not true for a few reasons. The first is you're an extra budget user and you're in a consolidated balance sheet state. That it's so good why you're 5 billion and how many million kunas you've put back into the budget for clinical hospitals. So your financial plan is less visible and less visible is what money is spent on than you were before your position at the Ministry of Health. But I'm curious, today I haven't received an answer as to what kind of condition it is, what is the health balance of 31.12.2014, what have happened and what are the long-term health obligations, and to whom do these obligations burden the future? Does HZZO, does the state budget? Another thing, without the intention of hurting you or anyone else, but it's fascinating to me how the medical profession always has the power and the knowledge of finance, but structural reform of health care is that you say no. We can do this job for, say, 19 billion kuna and it creates a basis to reduce one 1% of the health contribution. It's structural reform. And the rest practically on the same money, taken some of the money from the Treasury, you didn't basically get anything with it. What you were planning on doing was a second pair of shoes, but if you wanted something to be left alone, then it's a vague move with clinical hospital centers. However, I am also very interesting that all the colleagues whose medical profession today did not discuss at all the minimum health standards that you brought to the government the other day. So the figure in the lip is the same, but the units of local self-government have reduced the share of the income tax from 3.2 to 1%. So very interesting that with much less money you will cover practically the same costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99404	Thank you. The line matches the respected Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99405	I'm thanking you. Here's the morning we had a debate about this topic, so I'm going to repeat for the MPs who have now joined, of course no one says that only one act is structural reform in itself. I've said multiple times that we have three parts that make structural reform and exit from the treasury and insurance of financial sustainability over the years for the health system, we have a new model of bargaining that allows us to HZZO with the hospital sector and with primary health care, but there's today a talk about hospitals. And we finally only have this national plan that speaks of subsidiarity and functional integration. These are three units that make structural reform for the preservation, the improvement of the Croatian health care sector as it is today. So far, the model within the Treasury has led to the generation of new losses and has made it impossible for HZZ to normally negotiate hospital health care and ultimately without these two things then I would never give you a national plan to adopt because it would make no sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99406	A new replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99407	Thank you. When it comes to HZZO I think HZZO functions as a state fund, so it worked no matter what it was called, whether it was located in a state treasury or outside the state treasury. If the system was more insurance, I think we should go to Germany, Austria, France, Denmark, and explain to them how bad the system is, and that it's good for us, that we have a national insurance company and that it's a great deal for us. Of course, I would have already suggested to you or to someone after you who is a minister to go to that Germany, Austria, Denmark, France to see how these systems work and to try in a smart and quality way to implement one of these sustainable systems or in Germany's former state insurance company is still the largest among the insurance companies today. He didn't fail or disappear, he's here and he's still the biggest and most qualitative insurance guy, but with him there's no 5.6 as far as I know there may be more of them who have their share of the market some of his market-based niche of insurance companies that cover and each other are competitive eats while there's no competence without competence being very difficult and creating quality. When it comes to health insurance, it is difficult to say that we are talking about insurance if we do not have a defined package of services. At this point there is no package of services, it is both boundless and or does not exist, depending on whether you can realize it. So somewhere you have to define a framework to be able to tell if I have this package of services so I'm offering it to, whom, insurance because I'm insurance. At this point these are some fluctuative relationships in which, ultimately, however this ends, the state budget will cover it all, the people will pay for it, and we will be in debt and so it will take more or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99408	The replica corresponds to Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99409	Thank you. In relation to this last part of the plan and the health care programme as defined today in the Health Protection Act and in the Health Insurance Act is a particularly comprehensive document, and for this reason, in amendments and additions to the laws that will come to your benches over several months, we have a distinction between the plan and the health care measures programme as a general thing considered sufficient to preserve the health of the nation, and unlike that, the HZZO alone brings a plan and a programme of measures from compulsory health insurance that can be covered or with available resources. And we believe in the current model of financing the health system that will be quite equal. However, we will not do extravagants again, so it will be restrictive enough not to come because of a large basket of services to create new dubiosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99410	The replica of the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99411	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Minister, I would like to say, even though we are discussing the hospital system today, the Andrija Printer model has been mentioned several times. The impact of primary healthcare on the functioning of the hospital system cannot be separated. We made a big mistake by giving up the system so easily, which was an example throughout the world at the level of primary health care, so the Andrija Printer model. This was one of the best examples that the World Health Organization has repeatedly highlighted as a positive example. And what we did then, we now often refer to the printer and, in fact, at the level of primary health care, we do nothing to return it. Without going back, I don't advocate going back into socialist models, but we've made a lot of mistakes, here's when it comes to health care, which we've both done a lot of good things, and we haven't found a better solution than that. But I have to say this because no matter what we're talking about right now, it's your job to take care of the whole system, and I'm saying here I'm suggesting that we should start thinking about going back or changing or not having to take full care of that model, but changing primary health care. Health homes worked much better throughout Croatia while they were according to the Andrija Printer model. I'd just like to say one more thing, specializing, and I'm gonna go back, and part of it is still primary protection, orthodontics, and that's not what we're talking about. A huge problem in all Croatia, only Zagreb gets orthodontics specialization, and we don't have it on the periphery and in other parts. That's a big, big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99412	The replica corresponds to Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99413	Thank you. I'll start at the end. There is an ongoing specialization of 14 Slavons to express myself. Unfortunately, the problem was 35 years of 6 and went simultaneously to specialization and, behold, all six went into retirement at the same time. So we've sent a large number of HZZO expenditures to specialize, and we believe that this problem is solved after the end. At the same time, we were able to list waiting lists in the Republic of Croatia for orthodontics in general and there is still only a problem at the Faculty of Dental Sciences in Zagreb and at the Dental Study as part of the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka. So we're still addressing the problem in these places, but as far as we're concerned, we think that part's over. As for the Andri Printer model, I apologize, but a small lesson in the history of Andri Printer founded hygienic institutions, passed away in '54. Years and 10 years later, health homes were created, Professor. Silvio Vuletic founded them first home of health. But regardless, we are extremely proud of our legacy of Andrija Printar where we are particularly important and that start of subsidiarity, first let's start with the people, first we start to prevent the disease. Then the family doctor comes along and then the hospital. Therefore, this is one legacy that we cultivate and on the implementation of this national plan primary health care comes to a great extent precisely because of the application of the provisions of the daily hospital and of the day surgery, then the doctor of family medicine has a great responsibility in home visits, the patronage nurses get a new meaning and will need to significantly strengthen the healthcare care in the home that patients will have if they have bandages or have any kind of DNA or something like that must regularly visit these patients. So it's all an integrated health pillar and we don't want there to be a barrier between primary and secondary healthcare, it has to be all integrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99414	And the last replica, the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99415	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, primary health care we know what she looked like 20, 30 and more years ago, where health homes were equipped both with teamed and hygienic epidemiological services and anti-tubercological dispenser, so also with a laboratory, so some had a maternity and stationary and a small gynecology, maternity care etc. Today, it's this kind of science fiction, it just doesn't exist anymore. But that's not why I wanted you to have a replica, it's what you said about our health care, so one patient, one chronic patient where the state, on several occasions, intervened in repairing losses, so it's been determined to introduce recovery directors. Hospital, you mentioned Slavonski Brod when I came from. The hospital in Slavonski Brod is now in a larger dubiosis with the renaissance director than it was when you introduced the Sanacia Director even though the county at the time clearly did not because of the voluntary but could not, there is no means to cover the debt of the Ship Hospital because it was very poor for the county with a very low fiscal capacity, so about 10, 15 million very large money. Now, why don't you tell us how long the boat hospital is in the deep with your rehab... It seems to me that you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not you personally, but the former minister, the recovery directors just according to the SDP staff, and nothing else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't say for these people that they're not experts, but certainly among the people who work in these institutions there's a lot more competent people to finance health care, to run finances and everything. But you chose only your party-like experts. Shall we go from Ship's Hospital and beyond, from Dubrava and beyond? Where, just tell us where to bury.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99416	The replica corresponds to Minister Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99417	Yes, here I apologize, you know very well in Sisak is a person who, a fellow doctor, is far from a member of the ruling party, so it was looked at by competences and looked not at party membership. So there are more examples in favour of looking at the non-party and looking at the technocrat address issues rather than going to partying for any reason. When we talk about problems from the past and over the past period of the sub-planned and sub-financed health system, it's not from yesterday's problem, it's until '94. 17.4 billion kunas were paid by 2014. So it's not like that since yesterday. We broke that practice at 1.1.2015. This step took great courage and courage in the Ministry of Finance to put state finances together and that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is in a position outside the budget fund. So now with the additional revenues of the Slavonic hospital, she now has a situation to caricate from the 10 kuna she has received, with which she has received a negative balance, she now has 12 kuna. With these 12 kunas 1 kuna is for the purpose of paying old debts and another kuna is to strengthen health care and expand and shorten waiting lists for patients. And we're closely following that, and it's part of a new contract with HZZO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99418	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's already been said a lot, so I'm going to try to sum up my debate so I don't repeat myself. What is important to emphasise is that solidarity, comprehensive and all available health care is a strategic priority of our government's programme and the National Plan that is today ahead is one of the steps to achieve this strategic goal. I must once again emphasise this National Plan is one of the key planning and operational documents foreseen by the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020 and cannot be seen in isolation from it. I will remind you of this document we adopted in the Parliament in September 2012 and he cited a number of strategic priorities for information and e-Health, strengthening and better use of human resources, strengthening management capacity, reorganising the structure and activities of health institutions, promoting quality in health care, strengthening preventive activities, preserving financial stability and cooperation with other resolutions and society as a whole. In order for these strategic priorities to be achieved, it was necessary to adopt this National Plan, which also relies on the draft plan of the Government of Croatia for the implementation of long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures and programmes for the financial period of the European Union 2014-2020, which is particularly important because of additional sources of income from Croatian health, and we agreed today that they are the most important and amounts as we have also heard 250m euros of grants today. The importance of the adoption of this National Plan is seen in the fact that a delegation of the European Commission that was in Croatia last week was just asking questions when it was to be adopted. When it comes to this strategy that I have already mentioned several times, it highlights five strategic directions. This is to improve the coherence of the continuity of health care, equating and improving the quality of health care, increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the health system, increasing the availability of healthcare and improving all health indicators. We at the SDP club believe that the proposed National Plan provides assumptions for the achievement of these developmental directions of Croatian hospital health care, as well as health care as a whole and therefore we will vote as a club for the proposed National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. They say economists who deal with health care is the 21st century, so they say I quote them, the luxury of aging and like any privilege, and that privilege is expensive. All the countries of the world today feel constant pressure because health expenditures are constantly growing, and resources are scarce. By 2025, a third of Europeans will be 60 and over, which will have a significant impact on the demand for healthcare services. In Croatia, too, we feel this trend. The key challenges of development are reflected in the need to adapt the way in which health care is provided, as an increasing number of elderly people with multiple chronic diseases will also require different treatment and a different way of providing health services. Therefore, health policymakers, if they wish to maintain the appropriate quality of health services, have three options: first-to-maintain the level of costs, second-to-large the funding of health services or third-combination first and second-in-commands, which appears in this National Plan. In the opening of this text, and today several times in the debates, it has been pointed out, and I think we can all agree that the current systems of hospital management in Croatia are becoming both outdated and long-term unsustainable. In order to improve treatment outcomes, it is necessary to change the whole system, not to make partial changes only to some processes considered unsuccessful. New rules and incentives for strategic thinking within hospitals are also needed, because ineffectiveness exists in all parts of the system, i.e. there is a clear possibility of increasing values for the same money that is available to us. I'll remind you of that old rule, if we act and think the same way that the problem came about, we won't be able to solve it. So we need to change both the way we think and the way we work. Of course the National Plan comes from a state-of-the-art assessment. To know where we're going, where we want to go, we need to know where we're going. I will not quote everything that is stated in the National Plan, you have all had the opportunity to read but, for the sake of the public who hopefully follows our work, which did not have in the hands of this National Plan, it should be said that it includes 31 hospital health care institutions and, above all, those that include providing the most complex forms of health services, hiring the largest number of health and non-health workers and therefore having the highest share in the overall costs of the health system. What needs to be pointed out, hospitals covering this National Plan occupy more than a million m2 of surface area, which means that on average these facilities would be lost 34 thousand m2. Why does it matter? Well, that's important because it warns about the considerable costs of maintaining hospital facilities, especially considering that part of those facilities was built more than 100 years ago, that most of the facilities were energy-inefficient, unplanned and not fully adapted to their basic purpose. Hospitals covering this plan employ a total of 39,938 workers, but if you just go into employee analysis now, we'll see a number of problems. Let us take such a ratio of health and health care workers to the hospital. For example. The proportion of healthcare workers in the total number of workers ranged from 67% in Sisak to 79% in KBC Zagreb. Of the total capacity in all hospitals covering the National Plan, 83% are acute beds, only 13% refer to daily hospitals, and only 4% refers to long-term and chronic treatment and palitative care. What does that mean? This means that patients who need long-term treatment, chronic treatment, palitative care lie in acute beds that are the most expensive and therefore unduly increase health costs. In particular, it is believed in the section whether or not, that today in the City of Zagreb and the Western region according to this division of the National Plan there is not a single bed for long-term and chronic treatment i.e. Palitative care. There are currently no agreed beds of prolonged treatment in any hospital. Finally, hospitals that include the National Plan have only 150 beds for palitative care, which accounts for 0.01% of the hospital's total capacity. The Palitative Care Beds are not evenly distributed in the health planning regions and there is a visible deficit compared to the civil capacities and standards prescribed by the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palitative Care from 2014 to 2016, making it clear what needs to be done in accordance with these findings of the National Plan. One of the key stages in the development of the National Plan and will be of invaluable benefit for the next step, this is the National Health Register, was the analysis and comparison of data between individual hospitals of the same category in the existing network in the Republic of Croatia, so that we do not compare KBC Zagreb and the General Hospital Sisak. The results showed significant differences between hospitals that are within the same category, which clearly shows that there are huge opportunities to increase productivity. So hospitals vary within the same categories and by the number of beds and by the number of hospitalisations per doctor, at the average level of bed filling, according to the number of specialist and consular cases by one doctor, by the number of cases treated in the daily hospital, etc. etc. I don't want to pick it up. One drastic example. The number of cases treated in the daily hospital from the general internal medicine activity of the first category hospital varies between 3533 and 18829 cases. So the range of six times. Also, there are significant differences in the average duration of hospital stay between categories as well as within the same categories of hospital, so let's take just one example of a third-class hospital where this difference is between six, eight and 12.7 days and some average today in the countries of the economic co-operation and development organisation is 7 days. Therefore, it is clear from all of this that this national plan is a prerequisite for a faster development of change, in particular with regard to achieving a high degree of flexibility of hospitals and their resources, in order to respond to the different needs and expectations of our citizens. It's been said a lot about subsidiarity and functional integration, so I'm not gonna hold on to it anymore. But it is clear that the model of subsidiarity and functional integration does not represent the discovery of hot water, but it is the way in which we can ensure with the same amount of money better and better quality health care for all our citizens. Of course the national plan would make sense must also have clearly defined objectives. They are defined through the need to increase the availability of hospital healthcare, by improving the quality and efficiency of the provision of hospital services, and by increasing the efficiency and rationalisation of the costs of operations of hospital institutions. Specific measures should be taken to reduce the rate of acute hospital treatment, as the average rate of filling of these beds should be increased. And they're by some wish list, but I think we can all agree that every wish and goal is me if there's something I want to achieve then I have a goal and I'm trying to achieve that goal. These objectives are drawn up with a methodology called the so-called methodology. smart smart goals, they're specific, they're measurable, they're ambitious, but they're realistic and they're time-framed. We talked a lot about the funds, we heard that we have 250m euros at our disposal from EU funds, we heard that exiting from the Treasury has provided 2 billion kunas more, but we also heard that on the basis of only 15 diagnostic procedures it is calculated that we can provide 100 million kunas with better quality health care within the health care system. Therefore, the treatment of patients in daily hospitals instead of acute facilities with an increase in the number of daily procedures from 10% to the end of 2016 may result in 50% savings for these cases. Of course, it will all drastically shorten waiting lists. It's final. I think it is important to stress that the importance of this National Plan is primarily to increase the quality, availability and efficiency of the health system, but also to form regional centres of excellence, and to reduce waiting lists, and only then to discuss the savings that will result, but then to return to the health system. And the last question that many of us have asked ourselves today is this plan realistic and feasible? Here I will quote one of the authors of this National Plan, his revision that says, "When you set the scale too high and when you fall twice, you don't try to skip any more than you give up. When you set a ladder too low to jump it and say I don't care, this is too easy." So we need to find the middle. And I think this National Plan has succeeded, that the scale will skip, maybe some won't come from the first, but they won't be even demoted by not being able to skip or undermine it in terms of easy going. I therefore believe that the objectives set in the National Plan are difficult but realistic and that we will often have the opportunity to see here the Minister of Health has announced that this year, if I am not mistaken, we are waiting for 25 different legislative proposals that will ensure the implementation of the health reform, so that we will often have the opportunity to ask him how everything that is written in the National Plan is implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99420	Thank you. We're slowly dropping the average replica, to this exposure of only four. First, Vice President of the House Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Jovanovic, I'm actually glad that you initially mentioned and extensively quoted the National Health Development Strategy, because you reminded us all together of our discussion about it. Then we made it very clear that out of these, how many four hundred pages the minister was then boasting with a kilo and 200 grams I don't know how many, that book that mainly contained an analysis of the situation in the tables, and about twenty pages of very general formulations, some of you were now quoting were talking about the vision. And then we just criticised it for not having any clear, concrete goals, the way in which these goals will be achieved, etc. Unfortunately, this is just a sequel. Now it's not 20 pages. Now we have 32 pages. There's no analysis whatsoever, but on two and a half pages with a couple of numbers trying to define the current state. And as it was all just an analysis of the situation, and no vision, we don't have an analysis of the situation here. We have good wishes, we have good intentions, I believe in them, but there's actually nothing concrete that would guarantee that this will really lead to what you said should change the whole system. But here it's clear and it says that it's not intended to change the whole system. The minister himself said it was a small step. Many elements of this step are not defined at all in any way. Methodology does not even indicate how this is to be achieved, and of course it is a huge problem that we must face. The scale? And what's there to skip anyway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99422	The replica corresponds to the respected representative Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99423	Thank you. Well, fellow Reiner actually, it's a process that needs to be followed. So when we were making some legal solutions, we proposed some legal solutions, and it was rarely an observation that there was no strategy, how we would pass laws when there was no strategy. So, first we have a strategy so we don't have these remarks you can't make quality solutions if you don't have strategies. The strategy gives rise to a national plan, the National Health Service Register comes out of the national plan, and in this way we will create a framework in which we will need to put a picture of quality health. This picture will, of course, depend primarily on the quality of the implementing measures. I said, the minister will often be in the Parliament this year, we'll be able to track how he does what he promised us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99424	Another replica, the esteemed Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99425	Thank you. You reminded me well, when it comes to the goal of 85% not filling the bed or bed as spoken in the document, although it is common to talk about sick beds, it is almost impossible because they are not, it would mean that these sick beds are filled all year long except for Sundays. We worked in hospitals, and we know that patients usually get fired on Fridays, receive Mondays, and already simply physically, these aren't hotel beds, I think they were lying there, there was someone sick in that bed, and he had some pathology, he lay down for days, that bed afterwards should be aired, cleaned, disinfected, left alone. So, under the conditions that only the agreed beds are really used, it's completely impossible to reach 85% of the bed filling. It's the only way, and that's what's happening, and maybe we should talk about it, that the arranged beds are less than the ones that actually exist physically. In conditions where more physical really beds in departments than the number agreed only then can and can actually achieve a high filling of the arranged beds or beds and these are those that have such a high score, they actually have a physically higher number of beds. Because you just can't, they're not healthy people who just change. You line up a little bit and the next one jumps in. So there's some kind of latency period that has to go through. And at the end of the day I say you have weekends when there's no processing, when there's no administrative staff where the patients are fired and things like that and when the suits are less filled. So try to imagine for yourself what 85% of the actual bed fill would mean if they were physically as much as they were arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99426	Replication response, esteemed Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99427	Thank you. Well, my colleague Djurovic, on several occasions today, said that the number of beds will no longer be crucial. Why not reduce the number of beds, provide greater comfort to patients who will be in hospital, but at the same time ensure that more day surgery is represented. And that way 85% of the representation will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99428	Next replica, distinguished Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99429	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jovanovic remembers the debate when it came to the Health Development Strategy and when the words of praise also came from your side and how they were very commendable for the almost golden minister who poured all the best and how our health will be fantastic, etc. We remember that waiting lists will disappear within a month, how he does it. And in the end, what do we have? You said about the old buildings you were talking about. You have a new polyclinic building in Slavonski Brod that was opened twice, and the lamb ate and spin for the presidential elections, etc. who still doesn't work and doesn't receive patients. I don't know, here's the minister here, maybe he can tell us something concrete when this newly built polyclinic, it stands, so the problem is equipment and other things, will work on Slavonski Brod? So, it was twice opened, conveniently, conveniently with good veal and lamb but unfortunately other than opening patients, the lamb was eaten. And secondly, tell me now over the three years and more of the Kukuriku coalition's rule that we're standing with waiting lists after you promised us and after the former minister promised to cut the waiting list, for an eye checkup if it's not urgent, if what the Spanish say is in the eye, for an eye examination he orders you anywhere I think in Croatia for a minimum month. You can't come to the occult. The number of inhabitants has decreased, the number of doctors has increased, part of the population has gone, emigrated to other countries, and we have an increase in the number of days waiting not only for diagnostics and mainly for surgery. How long are you waiting for an artificial knee? How long are you waiting for an artificial hip? How long is the magnetic resonance waiting? Now, my wife told me she was ordered for 2016 for a magnetic resonance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99430	Thank you. The replica matches Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99431	The results of the implementation of the strategy cannot be seen within a year, it takes some time to see what the results are. In particular, when it comes to the construction of new hospitals we have two great projects that have just started to be realized, it is a hospital in Pula after years and years of waiting and finally the oldest Clinical Hospital Centre in Rijeka, where buildings were built at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia are also starting to build. As far as the waiting list is concerned, Minister Varga has shown real initiative, and yet one of the key reasons why the remand managers of the largest hospitals have been removed is not political membership, but an extension of the waiting list. And today I've already said the plus program that started today aims to reduce waiting lists by 6,000 patients per month.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99432	The last replica, respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99433	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, I was encouraged in the replica by a part of your debate where you spoke of palitative concern. In fact, it's amazing how in the last 20 years, we've been acting so irresponsiblely against our fellow citizens of older, powerless citizens of older age. It's one relationship that I have to admit to me a little bit incomprehensible, as if we've forgotten them that they exist and that there are their very specific concerns. One of them, now I have to admit, I've been to all sorts of scary places. One of the scariest places I've ever been is the geriatric ward of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapec. It's one place that's unworthy of anyone's life. On all of us, Ministers, it's up to all of us to change that. It's one scary room, I think people are there, nurses, doctors are really hired, they'd like to do something but there's no such quality staff that can replace those conditions. It's just inadmissible. And I hear that in some other psychiatric hospitals, the same geriatric departments just look like they're our moms and dads, grandparents and throw them in the trash. And we just did them, it looks like we threw them in the trash, that's terrible. I ask you Ministers, I appeal to you, and thank you, colleague Jovanovic, for inciting this debate because I think it is terribly important that we feel a little better in these situations too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99434	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99435	Well, colleague Blažeković, this is really one of the key issues that needs to be addressed more quality, had a strategic plan between 2014 and 2016 with the funds that we received from European funds can also be focused on solving the problem of palitative concern. When you mention it, unfortunately, paliable care is needed not only for chronic, elderly patients but also for children, and they have a particularly difficult condition. And a good example from Rijeka where mostly counties, cities and churches have established a very good hospice, shows that there are ways to solve this only needs a little goodwill and the money is found.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99436	The word again comes from the respected health minister, the esteemed Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here I thank my colleague Jovanovic for supplementing the actual intensity and really clarified some of the things that arise especially when speaking about the relationship of this document in relation to health development strategies by 2020. The grudge at the time was indeed, that it was too much of an analysis of the existing state, too. And then there was an argument that because of it, action plans such as the national plan for the development of clinical hospitals and clinical hospital centres arise. And that's why we're here today. There is no point in increasing these existing 32 pages of the document from another 60 pages that have already been published and adopted here in the Assembly. When we talk about the question of some international comparisons and international relevant statistical indicators of the functioning of the health system such as length of stay in the department, the filling of the bed, the number of beds per 100,000 inhabitants, the number of doctors on the number of beds, the number of nurses on the number of beds. These are all international comparisons and we have derogations, we have derogations and as 28 EU members we have a duty to ourselves, but also according to our international comparisons to fit into at least some European average, but we have a chance to be better than the European average. And that's why I appeal not to leave the public health system, not to leave the solidarity base. We as a member of the EU are obliged as a member to have universal coverage on health matters. Therefore, none of the population of the Republic of Croatia should be without state-guaranteed health insurance, however arranged. The Netherlands has no, the Netherlands has completely private and state-owned, and national security, as well as private and hospitals are all private. But it's that English lawn, it's been growing for 200, 300, 400 years, and that's the question of whether we're mature democracy for such a step to privatize something overnight and leave things to the case. I will personally fight it in any capacity I may be in. When I'm talking about reducing the waiting list, here I'm going to give you, here's some examples that someone's waiting somewhere, we have free phone numbers that the Health Ministry has, what HZZO and whenever someone gets an exemplar term that bounces off of all norms, and if someone thinks they're cut off, over 100 people in HZZO make an intervention to get to the earlier term of the one that's suitable for medical conditions. However, the very activity of reducing the waiting list in the past period, not from today with the programme plus but in the past period since I was minister we have appealed and we have sought active hospitals to address the problem of waiting lists primarily in three spheres of children, cancer patients and specific leukemia. We said that no person under 18 or has a diagnosis that starts in the IKB with C or anything related to malignancies should wait longer than 30 days. And that's done, you can't wait for more than 30 days anywhere. When we get out of these spheres, here we are told we have examples of the carlovica hospital waiting for a diabetic 180-bottom today waiting for three days. Mercury, the top of the Vrhovac waited 250 days today to wait eight days. So from the day of the order of realization of the specialist review, it's been eight days. So there are significant shifts, there are also problematic areas. The problem areas are there that we are missing a highly differential set of apparatus specifically about heart catheteration laboratories, CT and magnetic resonance. And soon we have three big procurement cycles that we provide through long-term payments, through the budget, and soon the first categorization laboratory is moving, right behind that CTs and behind that magnets, and by the first week of March, all the tenders are scheduled to finally end within this calendar year. And what should be pointed out is that this is a special transparent tender documentation to minimise the maximum chance of falling for any reason on the state commission or anything like that. Finally, Vrapce, I was president of the Governing Council for several years at Vrapce Psychiatric Hospital, and I believe that this is an integral part of the absence of the hospital, including forensics and projects carried out in the Ministry of Health and address both problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99438	Minister's time. And on this exhibit, we have a replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you're trying to convince us again what I think we all agree on. There's no need to tell us how because we all want the system to retain the principle of solidarity and to have socialized medicine. And certainly people must not be unsecured or as few people as possible that they should be insecure, but always medical services are to be paid. So there is neither free nor in medicine nor anywhere else, but it is precisely a stumbling block because as I have said here many times and today I said the key problem of Croatian healthcare is still the way of sustainable financing. There's nothing about it here, and I don't know how many times I'm gonna do it yet. But when it comes to socialised health, then I agree with my colleague Blažekovic that it is interesting from this document compared to that previous document that was bad right away to say and it is good that the discipline has changed but completely extended treatment has disappeared. And now that we're talking about prolonged treatment, then I hear from my colleague Jovanovic's apologist, so it can be financed from EU money, you said it could be financed from the EU's daily hospital money. So what are we going to finance from this very modest EU money? It cannot be an EU money answer to all the questions raised here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99440	The replica matches Minister Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99441	Here's my thanks. In particular, when we talk about European operational programmes and structural funds, if I am not mistaken, we have now said 280m euros of which 140m euros are exclusively for infrastructure projects for the realisation of this strategic document. So there are those hospitals where there is no infrastructure or equipment in terms of the possibility of providing services within the daily hospital and day-to-day surgery will be financed from these EU grants. They are approved and we have a project documentation for all centres that were willing to apply for it through construction and other permits and it is ready and waiting for the green light from the EU Commission Office in Zagreb to say that this was adopted in the Assembly can be released and that tenders can be opened. Another 100m euros is about the development of human potential. So the way it's done today is fixed and learned through a long line of years. where appropriate, training will be required especially for sister staff to address the problem of a net-released patient in the care of the home treatment. So it's not enough just to say it out loud and say it because it's an evolutionary process that can be achieved and planned through the next three-year period to realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99442	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let me immediately refer to what we last said, so it's true that there are European funds. However, it is also true that most of our hospitals do not have executive projects or building permits for what this plan provides and you know it very well. So to spend to increase the daily hospital and day-to-day surgery you have to build new capacities, build. You can't be in the middle of a department that exists to declare two rooms for the living room. That's not how it works, and if someone who's been lying that document is like that, then they have no idea about anything. I know that you know that it is not so, but that new capacities must be built. To build new capacities when you have approved money from tenders to all sums it will take more than two years. This development plan is defined... actually let's be realistic for the rest of 2015 and 2016. This is inconclusive during that period, therefore it is inconclusive to build it all together, equip it all together, and then achieve some results. I'm talking about quite concrete and realistic things, according to when one of the 10% targets is to increase the number of daily hospital cases he's inexhaustible because he's simply spatial and I'm not talking about human resources. You said part of the money would be European used to educate nurses. Yeah, but we don't have sisters now. Every day we lose them, and we fail to produce them, and in fact there is no state strategy that should have been made long ago to understand each other, I'm not saying that today solving this issue would have done something, and if we don't start to solve this issue in five years or in seven years we'll be in an even more incomparably bad situation than we are today. Therefore, the education of existing sisters is excellent, and they are missing today, this moment is missing in the stationers, let alone opening day hospitals. When we talk about daily hospitals, so you know where there's a space built specifically on the KBC Rebr, there's a built area for the daily hospitals so that he's supposed to hire at least a hundred sisters for whom there's no money, there's no limit, there's no approval from the ministry, and it stares blank. Zhapi has been empty for several years and this is the situation of daily hospitals where a day hospital is built and what we talk about when we talk about dozens of hospitals that have nothing at all, where it should be done literally from the back. So these goals which, and the measures that are mentioned here are convenient, but you can't see from any of the reasons why, I'm going to say again why exactly by 10% reduce the rate of acute hospital treatment and not by 12 or not by 15 or not by 8. On the basis of which it was calculated. That's not even visible from this. Reduce the average bed fill rate, reduce the length of hospital treatment. Why? How and whether in the same way not in one institution or in other institutions? I was happy when I read on page 8 that the National Plan would not clearly define the number of beds. And I think it's good and smart because based on the number of beds is going back to Florence Nightingale's time. But when I read this right away I saw on page 11 actually writing something else, on page 11, it's actually talking about the minimum number of beds in the design units and then, in fact, on page 14 there's talk about the building units that are defined with a minimum of 15 beds. It is not true, therefore, that this plan does not define a clear number of beds, unfortunately, what I have emigrated on page 8 is not true because it defines them. And why isn't that good? It is not good because especially in highly differentiated institutions there is, you also know it well that units that should not have 15 beds, which can peacefully have 7.8 beds but may be highly differentiated, recognizable and international and perhaps the only ones in all of Croatia. Maybe they shouldn't have even one bed and be because they're both scientific and professionally recognizable units and they do, they do the job of health services but they won't be able to be recognized by the sequence of these because they don't have 15 beds. So that's something that's unfortunately not good, and I think that should change for sure. What I was about to say was that something was compared to the estimated optimal values of the average duration of stay at the hospital. This does not say at all what is the optimal average value. Based on what are they determined? Are these international standards, if so, what different standards are in Germany, different in the United States, different in Canada, etc. What are the standards, you don't know. When we talk about the problem of a day hospital, then we have a specific one, there is defined a daily hospital as something that does not last longer than 16 hours in the course of one day and already today, today the HZZO accepts that it is up to a month in advance for more days. Therefore, it is all in certain discretions that are actually confusing and which do not guarantee that this will all come true together. I'm going to go back to something that's been talked about a lot, and that's to shorten the waiting list. Unfortunately, none of this guaranteed that the waiting lists would be shortened. I'm not someone who advocates that we have to tie ourselves to a reduction in the waiting list and for some things it's not that important, it's very important for something and it's not for something. However, it is simply not true that it depends on the number of appliances and on the financing of any operations and on the number of experts. So it's not all about CTs, it's not just about magnets. You have a problem today that children with let's say that in the first months they have to make an ultrasound of hips are not able to do it in all of Croatia or from a distance in time. So it's simply a question of whether there's enough of these machines and even more whether there's enough of those experts and the answer isn't. And it takes years for such an expert to produce. Therefore, this will not solve that deficit. It's similar to the ultrasound of the heart. The ultrasound of the heart depends on the finances, depends on the apparatus and depends on the experts. In the good part of the place where it's supposed to be, there's no camera, but it's an even bigger problem that there's no experts and there's few experts that we have going out, and unfortunately we have less and less. So these are actually problems that in some ways do not touch this plan at all. For example, there is talk of surgical activity in hospitals that needs to establish monitoring systems, reporting on key events such as the rate of evasive non-traumatic amputations of lower extremities associated with diabetes. Well, it has absolutely nothing to do with hospitals. Well, the need for amputations of extremities due to diabetes is primary primary prevention, prevention of consequences, chronic consequences of diabetes. Whether a surgeon will cut off so many or so legs has nothing to do with the functioning of surgery, it has to do with the organisation of health services throughout the country, primarily the diabetic service, and with a timely and appropriate prevention that this does not occur in diabetics. So, let's say this quote here is completely missed. And I would go back to that key problem that unfortunately is not mentioned at all, which is, I just touched it, which is the question of planning staff and the issue of sustainable financing. Sustainable funding is a key problem for Croatian healthcare that is not mentioned here at all. However, it is very easy to say on page 28 that the implementation of the national plan will create positive financial impacts that are not subject to analysis. So what are the financial effects that cannot be analysed? And then you say it's hard to quantify them precisely even though they're unequivocal. So they're unequivocal, we'd have to take someone's word for it and they can't be analysed and they can't be quantified. Well, that's actually what I have to say quite unseriously. And finally, once again, what is very, very important. In addition to the problem of lack of any tangling of sustainable financial development of health care which is crucial I repeat the problem and other than personnel extended treatment is unfortunately no longer mentioned here, and that is also one of the important reasons why acute beds are filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99444	Replica, the esteemed Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99445	Thank you very much. Well, academic Rainer, you're in fact in your own debate as much as you wanted to say that this National Plan doesn't offer solutions to show how much it is needed and in fact the only observation we can agree today that it stands out that it should have been brought long before and that we had a strategy before, that we had a national plan then we would have already seen the results of the application and the strategy and the national plan. What should also be pointed out is that all hospital administrations, once we bring this national plan, if we bring it in Friday, have a period of one month in which they have to submit an answer to a whole series of questions where they will clearly say whether they can increase the daily hospital capacity by 10%, if they can't do so, what they need to do to achieve it, and on that basis, the Ministry of Health will provide additional resources and offer them a way to do so. So it's not done by heart, it's done strictly planically, it's organized, and that's why I'm sure we'll see the results of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99446	Replication response, Honored Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Jovanovic, you actually jumped into your mouth. In fact, you yourself said you weren't doing things by heart, and then you said that the hospitals would just now wonder what they needed to reduce by 10% so they could do it, etc. Well, that should be known in advance, which exists in which hospital, which doesn't exist, to make a plan at all. It had to be known about the strategy to be done, let alone the plan. I agree with you that they also need a strategy, not as you have brought most of the votes here because it is pointless completely, nothing comes out of it and unfortunately no such plan from which no good for Croatian health will come from. But you actually said yourself, that data was supposed to exist. Whoever put this plan together had to know in detail what hospital was missing to say that I wouldn't know how to increase the daily hospitals by 10%. Well, that's what I've been saying all along, you said yourself, so they had no idea what was wrong that could happen and that's why there's no answer to my question why 10%, and why not 8 or 12 or 15% because nobody knows that because this plan was done without any really serious analysis that could really be said is 10% because, and that's why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99448	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99449	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, I have been keeping myself from replicas all day long, but just after all this together I would like to hear in this high house how much health care is due today because after a statement from the Minister that leaving the Treasury will reduce the expenditures on health care that is the most ridiculous thing I have heard. Well, the Treasury wasn't costing health care, the Treasury was just paying them like somebody's gonna pay them right now in HZZO. However, it is very interesting that no one has said how much the tax administration costs to collect health contributions. This is the future cost of health care because as the Tax Administration charges everyone so will probably charge HZZO. However, what I have to say and I want to say is that I suppose all the finance ministers in Croatia's history have suffered from these national plans that did not contain financial indicators, and that is why our health care today is where it is. It is not known how much the losses, what the real costs are, and what is most important is those who pay for the health contribution and who need to receive the health care service are dissatisfied. And maybe this is the only area that has continuity in patient spending and dissatisfaction, regardless of which political option was in power in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99450	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, I understand your question rhetorically because of course I don't know how to answer that, but it's much more important that they didn't know, they couldn't, they didn't want to answer the Prime Minister when you asked, and neither did the minister when you asked each other that question. Clearly, therefore, this is a very big problem. But speaking of money, then there's something else that needs to be clarified, if nothing, because of these few people here in the hall. Are you all aware of how this hour of the hospital is being financed now? Do you know that hospitals are working without knowing the price of a single search because the prices of the search for what the hospitals were doing in January, February and March will only be determined on April 1st. Now imagine you go shopping for a car and come to the store and say I'll take this car, drive your car home, and the bill will come out three months later and you'll pay for it, whatever it is. If you're a salesman, maybe he'll tell you that car costs 5,000 kuna, which is the new Lamborghini. Or vice versa, maybe they'll tell you you bought Tica, and maybe they'll tell you it costs 500,000 kuna. In such a situation the hospital administration was now, they were past administrations, removed, these now, in the same situation. Hospitals work without the mildest knowledge of how this and how much it will be paid. That's just part of the answer to your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99452	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. In fact, a lot has been said today and related to this subject of the National Plan. But we have also touched on the discussion of other issues that actually speaks about the importance, that is, this area that we are talking about, or the breadth of the problem. But I'm going to isolate a few suggestions here that you actually said, or a few findings. Among other things, it is that the governance system needs to be changed and we all agree. Also, regardless of all these criticisms and problems, however, the bright point of health is precisely because of the workers in the health care sector itself. We can also agree that the Croatian health system is in fact somehow always holding a certain level. However, the reform itself, which includes one of the links in the whole reform, is in fact this National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. Actually, it's one process in health care. There's nothing in the reform that says the magic wand can be solved now all of a sudden. However, in this way, we actually create frameworks to have better health care, that is, to make our end user happy. Today, there have been a lot of speeches, of course, about the funding system as a problem, and we agree that it always takes more. Today, however, we also heard additional sources of funding from the minister, which is also health tourism, one of the forms in which we can actually increase revenue sources and also European funds, regardless of which they have been minorised, or that there are not enough funds. But here's what we know is that 250 million euros we've received from what 107 million euros go to day hospitals, or day surgery where we have to admit that we can actually have a million-dollar savings. There was also talk of a perception problem, and I agree. In fact, it's also important that this National Plan and everything that's being brought up to be well-communicated, or well actually, to speak well. It's good to communicate that people understand what this is about, because usually when we have something new in any area we always have resistance, it's not right. The second time you hear you say it, that's what I think, and the third time you say it's good. However, in politics, of course, that resistance for a new one has been strengthened. However, it has certainly come to this National Plan and there will be one shift in the health system. Someone also mentioned the Institute for, in fact, the transplant as a very important activity that we can boast about in Europe. I've had a recent chance to be in one of these departments and I have to say that in Mercury, Minister, Mr. Minister, I think we need to think about actually some better conditions because I think that hospital, or that department, that profession deserves it. They also talked about the resolution managers, and very often it was said that the resolution managers were placed only by party members. However, I'm going to tell you an example of Dubrovnik where we don't have, we have a Sanacia manager who isn't party-oriented. I don't even know what he's leaning on, because I know he's not one member, not one member of a party. And I'm going to say that the sanity manager has to have characteristics as well as inventiveness. Well, here's the time, while that rehab manager is head of the Dubrovnik hospital, I have to say, here's a palitative concern with him being the same, and 30 people are less. However, a unit, units and palitative concerns with existing personnel have been opened. Then it's three new departments of cardiology in Dubrovnik that finally got its real potential and we're far from actually in the south. You know we're also isolated by car. It's hard actually to come. Split is far away. Very often he flew a helicopter, etc. At last, however, the Dubrovnik hospital is now working on a 20-hour network of intensive cardiology. So no one with a heart attack should go anywhere. Cross-sections, etc. are also installed. If you have to, the doctors will come down. We were also talking today about the draining of personnel, which is a major problem, especially the draining of medium - professional staffs, i.e. the sisterhood. I'm going to say one example here. Thanks to this ministry, we got 16 specializations and four specializations came from outsiders, from other countries even. So in Dubrovnik it comes, to 4 specializations come our people who have roots of course from Dubrovnik. But people are coming back. The problem remains, so we're creating the conditions of what the minister said sometime this morning in the opening of his statement that we're creating conditions for those who would actually have been outside and that's a pretty positive example, and that's why I had to tell you. Now, one more thing to get back to this National Plan, that is, the importance of this National Plan. And it is very important for us to increase the availability of healthcare, improve the quality of the health system, and, of course, reduce the business of hospitals. And now if we look at this National Plan itself, if we look at key performance indicators, or efficiency, and if we compare them with European countries there we cannot be satisfied, there are no optimal values. This operational plan is not to repeat ourselves now who we know and that it is based on four regions. However, here I would refer to infrastructure, i.e. maintenance costs. It is evident from this national plan that approximately every hospital is being wasteed about 34,000 square feet [34000 m] of surface area. And when you look at the state of that hospital, when it's built, we're not talking about energy efficiency now, etc. There's a lot of money out there, and there's a lot of problems. But I'm also going to say, let's say we've now applied ourselves from Dubrovnik to European funds precisely for the cooling and heating system. So I say an example that you can, that you can't wait for everything to actually drop from above as decentralised means or limits etc. Today, too, there was a lot of talk about acute beds, i.e. a daily hospital. Acute beds as the most expensive variant and, of course, the goal is to create daily hospitals. Here's an example of the rib, recently a year ago I actually had a chance to take my father to the day hospital on the rib, all done in a very short time. Of course, the savings are financial because the acute bed is expensive, the savings are financial, the savings are of course to the patient and less care and walking and all that and you get your find very quickly and of course you go home with pleasure. We have a report that only 0.01% of the hospital's capacity for palitative care. I have to point out here that we actually need to define exactly what it is to be a paralytic concern. It's clear to everyone, but for our citizens' sake. It is often understood that palitarian care is the terminal stage so leaving a patient rough to say but to experience, wait for its end. However, palitative concern is actually that help when a patient is bad enough to return to some sort of maintaining stage of their illness and thus actually to help him and of course the family. As for the objectives of the national plan, I will not repeat them, we have repeated them all several times today, and also in order to achieve these objectives, specific measures that are mentioned here should be implemented. I will also welcome the principle of subsidiarity that I just said what these values are. And also the second principle, which is the principle of functional integration. With this functional integration actually leading to major savings, great rationalization. There was a speech earlier that it would take a lot of money because some construction work was done by the icy. No, there's extra room in hospitals, there's room in hospitals already means one space that can, of course, be redeployed and so on and so on. I'm sorry it's over, thank you very much. [[Intruder Batinić: Time of colleague.]] Of course I'll support this national plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99454	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vesna Saboliæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. After this whole day's debate, I'm not going to repeat all the facts and arguments that have been made in favour of this National Hospital Development Plan. Of course I will support it, I am fully convinced that a whole series of measures will lead to the health system being able to meet the needs for quality health services of our citizens and citizens from other countries. In fact, I am very glad that most colleagues here have said that health care is a bright point in Croatia, it is very good to hear. And I would just point out or say that we should now get back to the future because in one part of this plan, at least it seems to me, that opens up a space for the development of extra-institutional health services, which, in the sense of EUROSTAT research on the ageing of European society, which also mentions fellow Jovanovic opening up another new space in his presentation, I would also say for a certain self-sustainability of a part of the health system. In fact, older societies become a global problem, of course we know that. Especially if they are faced with a low birth rate, as is the case in Croatia. This EUROSTAT study predicts that by 2025 in Croatia and reduces the population by 234 000. Therefore, Croatia is faced with a low birth rate, happiness and an extension of life span and an unfinished transition which, of course, requires that this is how plans are made as presented to us. I would only quote from the conclusion of this EUROSTAT study, it is said: "28 countries in the EU that are involved and Croatia must implement reforms in the expectation of demographic disaster and at the same time speed up the process of economic transition." Of the countries covered by this study, the oldest population will have Slovenia, and in second place is Croatia. Then the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Hungary. In line with this EUROSTAT survey of these countries' strategies, as we have already heard, we need to adapt to the new needs of Europeans who by 2025 will be more than one third with years of life longer than 65. So we will have a situation that mostly better holding and better standing up I would say Europeans are coming for health care and health care services in Croatia, and that is the case now. Economic experts have long warned us that the economy should benefit from these new opportunities and new markets related to the needs of older people, i.e. I would say mature populations. This certainly must be an interdisciplinary approach, but I see that this plan is ready for both innovative health services and in this respect. What I would say is that it is very optimistic about the extension of the life span, if I may make a little joke, it will cheer us politicians first for the reason that the growing political weight of older people will have to accept, and it will also make the banks that gave credit to Swiss francs because many debtors will be able to pay off their apartments. Of course, a little dyspression. I hope you don't mind, Mr. Minister. What I'd like to ask you is actually a question and it's about child and adolescent psychiatry. When I talk about the availability of hospital and health care, we need to talk about one of the most endangered groups of patients, and these are children with mental disorders. This proposal does not fully show or at least does not fully show to me how the condition for improving the quality and efficiency of providing hospital services to this patient group is satisfied. In fact, child and adolescent psychiatry is an extremely preventive profession because it prevents mental disorders in adulthood. In fact, about 50% of adult mental disorders are thought to begin in childhood. So I would like you to explain or at least answer this question whether this plan provides for a separate concept or whether, by the point of view of the profession, it is necessary to provide beds for children with psychological problems not within this adult patient department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99456	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99457	Thank you. It was interesting when there was a report on the Pension Insurance Institute then the tree, the tree of life by age groups, was shown from 1990, from 2013 to the Republic of Croatia. And in 1990, we had a practical pyramid, so from the bottom to the top one of this very populational very positive tree of life, and today we have one like this as a half-point, so it looked like 2013 that log by age groups. In fact, during the period of 23 years, there has probably been a dramatic change in the structure, age, population structure of the Croatian population today for 25 years. And certainly, I agree with you, in fact, that Croatian health care is relatively slow, health system, and all other systems are relatively slow to these facts at all, so we also see that our health system is actually, in fact, those extended acute, chronic or palitative beds have not actually implemented too much at all in the hospital and it has only been very gradual and very slowly happening in recent years. But what we can't, I mean as a society, actually calm down it is that this trend continues because it will remain on its own pension system itself unsustainable and we as a society simply can't accept and we shouldn't actually accept that in 25 years this trend is even worse than it has been in these 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99458	Thank you. Here's a reply from my colleague Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99459	If we're talking, if I've got you all right about the birth rate policy, that's a topic for the other ministry. Of course, we need to take all the measures to fix the picture, but also the fact that this older population is not only a matter of solving palitative concerns, but of all other branches in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99460	Thank you. Željko Jovanovic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99461	You have also talked about the problem of mental disorders, you should say in the national plan in chapter 1.2 that planning to develop health care for persons with mental disorders, mental disturbances are based on deinstitutionalisation and strengthening of the protection of mental health in the community, as well as the modernisation of special hospital capacities and development of reference centres in this area, which is one of the priorities. But what I am particularly pleased that you mentioned, which may not be part of this national plan, but is worth the initiative from which you will profit and not only Croatian health but also Croatian economy, which is health tourism. So Minister Varga formed a special team, appointed a special assistant to Dr. Buru for the health tourism development action plan. There is a cluster of medical tourism, a cluster of dental medicine, and they have prepared 500m euros worth of projects that will also mean great progress in enriching and medical care in Croatia but at the same time boosting tourism, economics, creating new jobs, thus a commendable project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99462	Thank you. Answer. There's no answer. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin the debate by pointing out one fact as a kind of reaction to today's criticism of the proposal of this national plan. In fact, this fact is that the current government adopted the first National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020 in independent Croatia and this is therefore the first strategic document to develop the health system of the Republic of Croatia and this national plan that we are discussing today is the operationalisation of this strategy. And I can't accept the comments of the Rainer academics that the national plan is being adopted without any previous analysis, and I said that most of the national strategy is precisely an analysis of the current situation. So, I repeat, the national plan comes from the national strategy. So it was this government that had both political will and courage to start with changes in two extremely important resolutions that hadn't been touched in decades. It is a health and education resort. I think that concern about the health of citizens with regard to their education is absolutely the most important task of the state, and I agree with all those who say we have extraordinary medical staff, but that we have a poor health system and that is certainly why it needs to be changed. The national plan lays new different foundations for hospital management because it is clear that the current hospital management systems have become obsolete and are long-term unsustainable. This finding is best confirmed by the fact that in the last twenty years the hospitals have been resuscitated multiple times, we could actually say that they were in a continuous and constant recovery, but unfortunately without lasting effect we still had a situation that the hospitals were choking in losses, and at the same time our citizens were increasingly dissatisfied with health care. I took part in the debate on this document primarily as an economist. I really think that there is too little economy in the Croatian health system and I want to set aside two quality changes in the management of the hospital systems that this plan brings. What I think is one of the most important and most valuable changes is the change in the current way of funding through the agreed limits in funding according to the agreed service account. Simplistically, future hospital revenues should depend on the scope and quality of the work done. So by the end of this year, not as some previous speakers pointed out that this should only be next year, so by the end of this year, the share of the fixed advance should be reduced to only 25%, and 20% more of the hospital's funds would have been achieved through a variable advance, and even 55% of the revenues would have been made on the basis of checks and procedures performed, with a quarterly check of whether the hospital had achieved the agreed range of services or not. So this change will finally come to their hospitals like that county hospital in Čakovec, which is at the very top of Croatia across a series of elements worth or determines success, and above all by the percentage of the processing of graviting patients who are greater than 84%, and this same hospital had one of the lowest limits in the country and clearly could not be covered by it. So the more patients she processed, the more she generated losses, or other words, the more she went to the patients, the more she was financially punished. I want to believe that with this plan such selective determination of limits as we had so far as to selective debt write-offs only to individual hospitals, but also to negotiate investment business with private health institutions, let's remember the case of Medikol that all these negative experiences become a thing of the past. And the other good thing that this plan brings, and I want to say something about it, is functionally connecting hospitals. So it's something that a number of hospitals are looking at right now with a lot of consideration and it's very important to constantly stress that functional integration of hospitals retain their formal legal status, but that functionally related hospitals planing joint development, agree which activities will be developed by one hospital, which activities will develop by another hospital, coordinate hospital management, exchange knowledge and experience, unify diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, etc. So I'm going to say in this sense a banal example, so the amount of expenditure on medicines is also affected by the inability to get medicines at lower doses. If there are no more patients with the same treatment, the unused medicinal product should be discarded because it is not permitted to store the unused medicinal product as instructed by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. In functionally connected hospitals there will be no dumping of the rest of the drugs because it will all be used, not to mention more rational use of expensive sophisticated medical equipment such as CT devices or, for example, magnets. So functional integration also involves the abolition of certain forms of health activities in certain hospitals above all those for which the conditions are not met. Because it is simply not rational for all hospitals to have all health care activities or to go to waste. Croatia is a small country and is not rich enough to finance an existing level of health standards. Therefore, some activities will be abolished, and some of which are primarily equipped with medical staff quality and quality medical equipment, which have so far shown good results, and activities will continue to develop, and I would say a kind of specialisation process based on resources at the hospital will lead to the possibility of creating regional centres of excellence specialising in certain diseases or in certain diagnostic procedures, and this should ultimately affect raising health care efficiency and reducing waiting lists. And not only that, what my colleague Jovanovic said earlier could be some really good basis for health tourism and we know that tourism is generally an extremely important activity for us in Croatia. It is certain that the concentration of the highest quality medical staff in one place with the highest quality medical equipment guarantees best practice and thus gives the best result of treatment. For example, here again I will say the county hospital in Čakovec has an excellently formed and equipped urological polyclinic. And here's a very specific question based on that fact, why wouldn't the county hospital in Čakovec be a regional center of excellence for this activity. And finally, let me just say that it would be very good for this plan document to support all the political options in the Croatian Parliament because I believe that it is a good start of healing to say so in the medical dictionary of the health system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99464	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99465	Thank you. Well, I honestly don't share your enthusiasm really around this plan, and I don't see exactly why all the political options would ever support this plan, because neither does God know what's going to change the current state too much. You're talking about health tourism, and we can't, as I say, secure ourselves possibly above the standards. So now we've had these events around the hip braces and it's still up to date. So we just can't agree at least in a way and we have quality prosthesis and we have patients who want even more quality prosthetics. And we can't form ourselves as a system in a way that these people can pay for more quality prosthetics, better quality implants, better quality material, they can't buy it. So a simple system must be so complex that our hospitals have whether more numbers and models are available that someone who wants something even more quality can pay for it. And let alone that our services that are in hospitals and cheap and high-quality could offer me no knowledge of any kind of market. We're all patriots, too, and each of us promotes and cheers for our environment, but I'm some parts of your enthusiasm about the hospital you were talking about, I wouldn't share it with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99466	Thank you. Next up for debate, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, since I also said everything I had in mind through the discussion on behalf of the club, committee and replicas, but I have a commitment to one conclusion that we had on the Committee on Health and Social Policy where for the first time, when it came to one law, that is, the plan concerning health, we managed to gather together all professional associations that gather together a complete health vertical, so the Croatian Chamber of Medicine, the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, the Croatian Chamber of Pharmacy, the Croatian Chamber of Medical Biochemists, the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters, the Croatian Chamber of Primates, the Croatian Chamber of Physiothers and the Croatian Chamber of Health Workers who therefore participated in the debate on this National Plan, positively expressed themselves. And what they specifically pointed out is why I came to the floor, that is, and today it has been mentioned on several occasions, it is the procedures of recognising foreign professional qualifications, as well as the evaluation of the education and work of health professionals and the creation of a prerequisite to stay and here is the Deputy Minister of Education with us, so it is good for him to hear it too. Therefore, this problem cannot be resolved through the knee, it must be resolved in accordance with the provisions of the European Union Directive and the holder of the proposal for this law is the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. The Ministry of Health has also drawn up a proposal for a provision on minimum conditions of education, competence of acquired rights for doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine, masters of pharmacies, nurses of general care and midwives, and this will be crucial also in drawing up this national human resources plan at the Ministry of Health. But until then, I hope that the Ministry of Labour will pass this legal act which will then be able to resolve the employment of these... A profession in the Croatian health system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99468	Thank you. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, this draft of the national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres and clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, I would call it that it is a draft that Croatian health care wants to be destroyed or that what has been done so far is a bad cover-up. In fact, nothing concrete in this plan is listed how it could be seen that it really wants to improve work in, especially general hospitals that I want to talk about more than clinical hospital centres that we have clearly seen that the minister himself has seen that the Sanitary Councils are not doing their job, that they have missed their function, that they have accumulated debts, that the number of patients who are waiting has increased. So no effective effects from this political floscule, which is called recovery, are then on which, on whose master plan this National Development Plan of Clinical Hospital Centres as well as General Hospitals is based. The owners were banned from having absolute involvement in the work of these rehabilitation councils which caused additional debts. It has clearly been shown that, as you disbanded the sanitizers in the clinics, it was necessary that all records and indicators suggest that debts were also made equal to or greater than they had been recovered before, that it was necessary to disband all recovery managers and general hospitals. The quality of the service that we've been talking about all along is actually getting worse. Mr. Minister, clear indicators speak of the waiting list that we have heard of today until the department closes until the experts leave the rural areas, until general hospitals are not equipped, above standards, which is different limits that are set, different points that are still existing. That's why the hospital centers got in trouble. It is necessary to take reasonable, concrete and responsible measures that should have been precisely defined, numbered and targeted in this development plan as well. This is another blur that remains in the health system led by one partial decision that is not covered by the complete system, unequally deploying health money, do not allow the same approach, and I believe that it should not be so-called KBCs are certainly institutions in which there should be more money and better technological devices and capabilities, as well as experts who will do their job, but there is no need to ignore the county hospitals that should also allow their function and purpose to work properly. All they need to do is give back the limit that's reduced, they need the value of the point equalized, or maybe standardize. What are standards in general hospitals that they can handle with the amount of experts, so pay them not to make losses. When losses arise, some founders recover losses, not the state. Let... want to be if someone in the river can... pay. If we could in some environments for an overstandard called emergency medical care with multiple teams pay from municipal, urban and county budgets and thus allow everything to be covered properly, so over-standards in hospital treatment for those environments that have space, opportunities and resources, if they can't be enabled. Allow them to manage, manage responsibly and enable and finance if they want some of the superstandards. So I think this is the best example of you taking steps as soon as possible and that you should have said in this national plan if the administration or the board of directors or the board of directors or the resolution councils now do not carry out their duties, if they have caused debts as before, they will be responsible not only for their function but also for the authorities of the state that need to take certain actions for the purpose of abuse of powers and positions, unwitting business. But this should, for example, be in the municipal hospitals in the jurisdiction of the county congregations that are their founders and counties, and in the clinical hospitals in the jurisdiction of the ministries, and I think that such division should be placed as basic and will be for the benefit of citizens, patients and so to control, help in progress and development as well as in the education of staff. This is how it happens that the national plan says one thing or not to the end that through the Masterplan it said how many regional health regions will be, but then overlap because it's politically different for someone. And I'm going to say, what's going on with the Virovitica Hospital that regionally belongs to the Osijek Clinical Hospital, and that in reality it's fusiond or coincided with the functionality of the General Hospital in Koprivnica, that the departments are shutting down, that the experts are leaving. It's a fact that's undeniable and we have to stop it. How? If you want ministers by decision of the county assembly we can, we can act, we can take civil disobedience, but I think it's unnecessary. It's the same thing that happens in Lika-Senjska. It was supposed to belong to another region, and it belongs to a general hospital in Zadar, and so it overlaps with what's kind of a plan already, which I was talking about, defined. It's not good, it doesn't have any good progress, it doesn't have any indicators to talk about the progress of the health system, and you've seen it yourself. I believe that you know best because you've noticed in clinical hospitals, then you know how party staffs work in general hospitals. They have missed their role, failed to carry out their mission, and neither this national plan nor what needs to be done, and this is a national health care register that would define what it is, who and where it is to be done. He'll be in your jurisdiction, so politics will decide again what you probably shouldn't. I believe you understand what I'm talking about. It is good to have a national plan, but with all defined objectives, developed objectives, as well as decisions made as well as what. It is seen from the attached that this is not good and the remarks that Croatian mayors have made on this national plan, as well as all other experts, clearly speak of there are many errors and failures, undefined items that should definitely be worked out. I have highlighted some of which should clearly state what the standards of general county hospitals are, to what extent they can go, with what development I can count on, which will be covered by the Ministry of Health, and as an overstandard if they want to provide county, municipalities, cities in those counties. That's all the questions that can be solved like that. In this vision, greater concern can also be done and rationalized and everything else if clearly defined what it is that anyone can have. So far we've been developing, and unfortunately we're shutting down, and I'm afraid it'll be a precedent for that kid who ends up with a pea in the nostril to have to go 100 km to find a doctor in Bjelovar or in Koprivnica to solve his problems. It's very sad and it's absolutely not objective and possible, durablely further. With four wards of hospitals, it's actually hard to be able to exist. Consider once again that this national plan must also have elaborated details of what is clinical, which are general hospitals, which belong to them, to which development can go and what will be financed by the Ministry or HZZO, and what if they want citizens to have real needs, can be in joint financing to counties, cities and municipalities, which in the Ministry or Croatian Health Insurance Office. I believe that much more needs to be done in this National Plan in order for it to be thoroughly developed and to provide citizens with the protection they expect, the speed of services and the quality of services they have earned and which they have actually paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99470	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99471	Thank you. You well remembered me when it came to this process of recovery that we were actually against both because it was very vague, with vague goals, and it was a matter of nationalization with the fact that, of course, the County Assembly in your county and in my county where most of the HDZ seemed to have decided that these hospitals were being put into rehab. But you reminded me well when it comes to the merger process. And he's gone. Since it is in the process of merger, then I will talk to the chairman, since in the process of mergers are either joined or the minister, that the požega hospital and the Pakra hospital, and the hospital in Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradiška. The Pacrat hospital had no more serious minuses before that merger. This merger has caused great dissatisfaction between the people in these environments and a lot of resistance and problems, and it has not won, at least for the time being, they do not see any financial effects of this merger and the shut-down of the legal personality of these two pancreat hospitals because the debt is actually according to the available data already three years after the recovery or two of the mergers than it was at the beginning of the recovery and process process process while those institutions were separated, so I think it's actually a very bad move. So we artificially said that we no longer have four hospitals, everything else is the same, the debts have grown, and the rest is actually the dissatisfaction of the local population. And I believe it would be a much happier solution to simply go if nothing else were to reduce and rationalise the resources of the city and the Pancreat hospital, rather than shut them down as legal persons. And it would be good if the minister could actually explain to us what effects are financially achieved, given that other effects are not really seen at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99472	Thank you. Djakic's colleagues are gone, he cannot respond to the replica. We continue, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99473	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm reading this material and I see that the county hospitals are regional, and I'm going to start right now, specifically, not to delay in terms of time and time. So, St. John's Hospital. A ghost, Dr. Josip Benčević Slavonski Brod, General Hospital Zadar, Dubrovnik, Pula and Varazdin. In county hospitals, so those third categories, so-called. The categorization of hospitals includes Vinkovci and Vukovar. You, or your predecessor, have integrated, merged hospitals in Pakrac and Požega. The pakrac that was almost without dubiosis, without loss and Požeg, which according to the latest polls conducted by the first hospital in the Republic of Croatia, Slavonski Brod is the third hospital. So they're both in good places. So, the hospital in Vinkovci and Vukovar which is 18 km apart across Nuštr and Brshadin 18 km has to Vukovar. This one is almost in Mirkovci towards Vukovar, so according to Nustrov, it is not connected, it is not integrated. It's interesting. The hospital in Pakrac is 45 km away from Požega, and the hospital in Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradišca 54 km is the hospital Gradiška – Slavonski Brod. So, interestingly enough, the deputy minister who's just been practicing from our neighborhood is the exerciser of that kind at our Slavonic hospitals. But I guess the Vukovar hospital might be something that's understandable in the light of history. He also didn't touch the hospital in Vinkovci although these two hospitals are really much closer to space, so in the number of kilometers than the hospitals in Brod and Gradišca. This caused the dissatisfaction of the inhabitants of Pacrac and Nova Gradiška. You know what they were like not to say both protests and all together. And now that it's promised what's been promised and when we look at the results of that kind of integration to be just one director, one recovery council and one recovery director, etc. came up with the result that the losses now from Nova Gradiška that were 25 million kunas before there was integration of the total Ship and Gradiška say, I don't have the exact information maybe you have them, we don't see them, I don't follow around 80 million kunas. Now what was the recovery of this, not the recovery, but the setting up of the Sanantia director and the integration and the two hospitals? So it turns out it's been used to increase the loss of those hospitals. What are the sanctions of the state, the Minister, on such a result of the recovery? Nothing. First, Mr. orthopede was placed in the position of the Sanantia director, so when he saw what he was going to come up with and where he was going to go, he resigned himself. You know that yourself. Afterwards, another gentleman was appointed as director of the ship's hospital, and of course, he's a party like him. The first one wasn't, but good. It's some other connections, come on. But it's easy for me for relationships and for all together, rather than for the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Hospitals, General Hospitals with no primary health care plan in this plan. We know that healthcare consists of primary, secondary, so then we have tertiary activity, etc. Here it's just secondary and possibly tertiary activity. Coli Đurović well noticed that Petrova clinic, which is what we call the students in Zagreb, is what we always called it, so for gynaecology and maternity or obstetrics, whatever you want, is left out as a special institution of special importance. It is not only because of the financial benefits, the benefits stemming from the fusion of hospitals but rather from the Petrova hospital as a specific institution in its area of gynecology and obstetrics developed and scientific and contributed to the overall scientific opus in the Republic of Croatia and the world. It's also interesting, and I think that the Rijeka lobby played the most, so that word lobby within the Kukuriku coalition to especially classify Lovran Hospital. It is not included in the Clinical Centre in Rijeka, it is special, the orthopedic in Lovran is a special institution that is included in this list under the number 1st national hospital. The orthopedic hospitals at Shalata, the clinic pardon, no. Although we know good relations both in scientific and in any other sense. I don't want the hospital in Lovran, their contribution to science and health and everything expensive, to minorize but the clinic at Shalata is an orthopedic clinic really the clinic that no longer says in this list. What we're trying to do in our health care is what we've all said here. Unfortunately, as counterpart Djurovic says, there is always someone leaving the tail, and what is the main one is not suggested, so it was tried if we can't already tell in this medical section then we tried to isolate this extracurricular workers out of health so that we might, and where would we go with them? I don't know. And who would pay them? Well then when you didn't go outsorcing then you invented some spin off, so they call it, I guess it's popular English to say yes, so nobody understands anything mostly or if you understand this master plan thank you very much for being at least national although national is not Croatian but then you may not know another word, but good. I'm not talking about philology and that's not what I'm talking about today. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing What are they supposed to be? We lost a year after this because in 2014, it was lost, I mean lost, the year that passed. We bring this in February 2015, and the plan applies for the period 2014-2016. In 2014, we say no more, and here it is already in progress and in 2015. The effects of the implementation of the national plan are therefore: increased availability of hospital healthcare, then improved quality and efficiency of providing hospital services. When we say that sentence and that concept of improvement in quality and efficiency, then we always remember the waiting list. A moment ago, two hours ago, a person told me that it was ordered for an MRI for 2016 here in Zagreb. Here in Zagreb where magnetic resonances are 11. About a quarter of Croatia, let the million inhabitants with Zagreb County have 11 per quarter of the population of Croatia and the rest of Croatia has 26, so 2.5 times the population is 4 times higher. So there's disproportionate and thus disproportionate in ordering, thus disproportionate in the waiting list. The CT apparatus, which we don't know how much there is, has this spiral CT in the ship, in other places I don't know what it's like in other centers. In total, there are 36 in Croatia and 59 in Croatia and 36 in the rest of 23 in Zagreb. This means that again there is an even greater disproportionateness in the number of CT machines in Zagreb and in the rest of Croatia. About linear accelerators that I do not speak, this is indeed a huge disproportionate, Croatia 6 Zagreb 9, the rest of Croatia 6. And then we're surprised, we say there's a big rush, a big waiting list. How to develop and distribute this sophisticated equipment that I'm talking about so that it can be possible to say less pressure on Zagreb clinics? It's exposed here, whether this will lead to a result of reducing waiting lists, starting with occult examinations, ear, throat, nose examinations, orthopaedic operations, for example. knee replacements, artificial hooks and a series of others, or e.g. Now you're already waiting for surgery if you have some kind of nipple or some kind of benign benevolent tumor, says come by in 15 days when the infirmary will work. Believe me, I'm a surgeon here for 39 years, never anyone in surgery while I was working, here until five years ago I worked, not waiting. He comes in, he's got a manual, so let's go to the infirmary and get out of here. Today there are fewer inhabitants in Croatia than there were 10 years ago and we have bigger waiting lists [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Health care is more advanced, more sophisticated equipment, and more is waiting. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you colleague, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99474	We have one replica, there will be a chance of a colleague, Grubisic. Drazen Djurovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99475	Yeah, you got me right. Indeed, in 1921 set up the Royal University Hospital for Women’s Diseases, and already as it was called, the facility to develop throughout this entire period and then to decide that the Pope is a major center, so to speak. Well, we manage to do ourselves the kind of damage that no one else can do to us. Also today, this institution is more difficult to identify within the KBC of Zagreb, i.e. the Rebro is much more difficult to identify, much more difficult to function, in fact, as some isolated ones would say, the depadance of the KBC of Zagreb. Why? I mean, it didn't get anything, everyone who did all the administrative staff, there's also the head of the clinic, so there's really nothing to save, but it's so easy in political decisions to put out one institution that has a 90-year history of reference you really recognize in Europe and so specialized that some wasteful man of a whole medical profession in Croatia so that we can spread something that's already big enough. I could never understand nor did I gynecologist, nor do I have a personal interest in this, but why and how did someone do such damage in 2010? And the worst thing that usually happens in Croatia is that when the damage is done no longer repairs, so someone once destroyed school medicine and never returned school medicine to its function. So someone a few years ago made an emergency reform and caused damage to the ambulance that never comes back and fixes, always going all the way up it's interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99476	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99477	Thank you very much. A colleague Đurovic, as he comes to power, has some new ideas about health care and invents it. So then she was hit by school medicine, and then emergency or emergency medicine, so here's the hospital, 2010 Petrovo hospital, now it's time for the Immunological Institute of Zagreb, which is nowhere in these papers they've already sold or they intend to sell it already goes into private hands. Maybe you can already get a picture from telling customers who are going to buy immunological knowledge just needs to be published. So it's very sad how Croatia's airlines are sold, as sold, in one section of the ministry was sold, starting with air traffic, so Croatia's airlines, and then you have HZ CARGO tried to sell, so the roads are monetized, but here in health and it seems to work a little bit. The Institute of Immunology Zagreb, owned by HZZO, owns HZZO in 44%, owns HZZO. And there's no haberas at all to say in Bosnia or the vote of the HZZO which means HZZO, pardon the Immunological Institute, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99478	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Minister Sinisha Varga. Here you go, Minister. Sinisha Varga, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Proposer says that whether or not the Proposer writes is Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99479	I will mention once again to you that today is the International Day of the Patient, and it is not a waste to mention it many times today because it is really a studio and hard work that has been done to bring up such a document and everything that has been preceded by both my predecessor and my team at the Ministry of Health and to everyone on behalf of the Government, and let's say our own personal and let's say, even on behalf of the patients, thank everyone who participated in this and you who made constructive remarks to make it better for our patients to be of a greater service to the health system, individual hospitals, individual departments, individual nurses, all health and not health care personnel. It is often referred to as a comparison between a doctor and a lawyer as a related profession for a simple reason because doctors approach us when we are in trouble as well as lawyers. So this is a special moment when a man in a subordinate position for this reason is not just about ethical and other principles he performs special... under medical profession, but in general all health professions but it is also about the fact that society as such must also have a great social responsibility to the issue of managing the health system and in particular... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the length of today's session actually shows great interest in discussing these topics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I thank you again for that. I'm just going to look back for a moment on the past period which was all just not easy. Since 2012, until the end of 2014, we have done a systematic recovery, and several times the issue of administration, rehabilitation councils, resolution managers, and you have to be aware that it is an uninvited situation to manage the health system, i.e. a health facility, a hospital at a time of scarce financial resources, and I have to thank everyone who participated in this because the statistical indicator shows that the de facto nation or individual patients de facto from a medical point of view was not missing. Not only have we managed to preserve public health and indicators, but in all ten key indicators, the most common cause of death in the Republic of Croatia in the past three years has been an improvement, i.e. a reduced mortality rate of 10 major causes of death. When it comes to sound more concrete implementing measures, we believe that as defined in this document, which is a strategic document by international understanding, it is the key to operationalising what the operational programmes that come to us for EU grants, which is in the field of direct action plans that are individually set at the level of each individual hospital. It is well said that the analytical past that is being painful and the last microdecade has been established in each hospital, now there is an operationalisation that is being done over the next 6 months, which are activities that are being done over the next three-year period and that they are being built on a long-term sustainable system of functioning of the health system. Once again, I will repeat some of the basic principles of the national plan itself in order to be absolutely clear. The basic two principles of the system itself as defined by this national plan are the application of the principle of subsidiarity and functional integration. According to the principle of subsidiarity, health problems should be addressed at the lowest level of healthcare at which possible. The principle of functional integration also implies hospital cooperation at levels where necessary to achieve the defined objectives set out in the national plan. And these goals are to increase the availability of hospital healthcare, improve quality and efficiency of providing health services, increase efficiency and streamline the costs of operations of hospital institutions. Once again when we speak about this document, it must be said that by accepting such a strategic and operational document that is important for the development of hospitals with the aim of increasing the availability of hospital health care, the promotion is particularly important for the Republic of Croatia, particularly when it comes to people, then we are talking about important aspects of education, health and public administrations are parts of the social order that must be particularly noted and stressed, and I thank you personally once again. I watched a documentary about the national health system in the UK, and there was a survey made amongst the population on the road, and almost everyone polled said that the national health system in the UK is a national treasure and should be particularly cultivated. And it's something that... in Great Britain he's managed to do since he started there in the early 1950s, since he came into existence he's something considered a national treasure. In this way, it has been growing out of all the governments that were, were those liberal orientations, conservative but also inside it constantly tries to reshape and continuously strive to improve its commitment to providing health services on as much solidarity as possible, on as many bases of equality among all users of their system, and that is something that we also want to transfer to the Croatian health system that no matter what government or which side of this hall had the advantage of raising the Croatian national health system as something that needs to be continuously improved and kept as a pupil of the eye. I'd just end up being really long here, I won't be much longer and colleagues still have behind me exposure, I'll end up on a personal note. Although I do feel a great responsibility but these people are also managed by the Ministry of Health and at the level of all state agencies and institutions we have managed to create good synergy and we are getting good results in preserving and improving the health system, but when I come home and when I relax a little, I have to say that I still miss working with patients, working with my colleagues in hospitals and this way I want to personally welcome them and especially my patients whom I congratulate this day International Day patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99480	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99481	Proposal for a National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals and Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014 to 2016. The debate on the text of the National Plan is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote, who is it? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 28 votes against the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Health, the respected Sinish Varga. Here you go, Minister. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99482	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The government has given 3 amendments to the text itself that stemmed from a fruitful and constructive debate that took place during the debate on the national plan itself. The first amendment in the name and entire text of the proposal of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014-2016 is replaced by the words 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99483	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker. Here's to the pay phone, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99484	Thank you very much. Fellow Members and colleagues, therefore the agenda item is the Proposal for a national development plan for KBC and KB, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2016. And now watch what the government tells us, the government says it can, it doesn't matter what it says here, that it can be done in 2015, 2016. Is one system that is the largest cancer-earth Croatian budget, which spends every year what is known to be 23 billion last year, and the question is how much this year, is possible, so in 2014, we didn't do anything, we lost 3 months 2015 and now we're just saying it's not 2014-2016, but it's 2015-2016. If so, it was logical that the minister at the moment this was discussed in the Assembly, at least from correctness to parliamentary deputies says colleagues and colleagues in 2014 is behind us, so we can speak what we will do in 2015-2016. Second thing, colleagues and colleagues, we also adopted the budget and adopted for the first time after 12 years separated from the State Treasury Financial Plan of HZZO. Is this enhanced by the scope of this strategy actually a proposal for a national plan in 2015-2016 contained in the budgets, in fact by the Financial Plan of the HZZO 2015-2016. Apparently not. If not done in 2014 what was planned then the basis for which so much money was spent in 2014. This only points to one great indemnity and irresponsibility above all towards representatives in the Croatian Parliament because if such a strategic document can only change ad hoc such that it will not be in 2014 but 2016, without talking about any indicators then it is at least ridiculous and irresponsible. But if that's the way you'll see it at the end of the year when we have a health minus this big and the other thing, I have to point out this when it comes to disappointment, the dissatisfaction of the HDZ Representatives Club with the fact that we haven't yet received the information of what was minus healthcare from 31.12.2014 and the other thing, on whose account this minus goes, whether it's going to charge the State Treasury or will be charged with HZZO. I also find it very strange that HZZO and the Ministry of Finance, the IRS did not sign the contract because, under the old law, income from health contributions were State Treasury revenues and were collected as well as all other revenues. At the moment HZZO came out of the Treasury, a new contract with the Tax Administration had to be signed, and it certainly requires the costs of several hundred million kunas that are not in the financial plan of HZZO. Because the question arises, if there was a change in the design HZZO then there had to be a change in the contract between the HZZO and the IRS. For those who do not know, in 2002 the State Treasury, in fact in the budget, there was no treasure yet, included income of HZZO and then an agreement was signed and a decision was made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take over these transactions by the Tax Administration. Since there was a change then it was logical for the government to make other decisions and sign agreements. And so when you round this whole thing together, you see, unfortunately, that one strategic document gets a total non-serious dimension, and it's only brought in so much that it could wave that we have something, but it doesn't have a real coverage in financial indicators and it doesn't have a real coverage in HZZO's financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99485	Thank you very much. No more interested clubs. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. Thank you. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 28 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the bill. Amendment number two to the Honored Minister Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99486	Thank you. In Chapter 2.2. Project plan for the implementation of long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures for 2014-2016 Governments of the Republic of Croatia in the fourth paragraph of the sentence: the maximum number of beds will be determined in the national register of healthcare providers. Dictionary: The National Plan will define the specifics of the development of the hospital health system, the principle of implementing reforms through the subsidiarity and functional integration process, while the national registry will define among other things the maximum number of beds as one of the preconditions for the negotiation of services by the HZZO, it is also amended: The National Plan will define the specifics of the development of the hospital health system, the principle of implementation of reforms through the subsidiarity and functional integration processes, while the national registry will define the maximum contracted and active number of beds that will be agreed by the HZZO. In the light of this amendment, the content of the national register of healthcare providers shall be clarified in more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99487	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I see the hand of a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here's a colleague on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99488	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The three amendments that the government has made have indeed come out of the debate and it is good that the things that have been miswritten have been corrected, but this formulation of the amendment of a sentence that you have proposed to be an integral part of the proposed national plan is not good. I kindly ask you to try to follow what you suggest. The national plan will define specifics, the national plan defines, it is a document that we need to adopt today. So it can't say in the document that he's going to do something in the future. The national plan defines the specifics of the development of the hospital, health system, the principles of implementing reforms through subsidiarity and functional integration processes while the national registry will define and here the problem now begins with the maximum agreed active number of beds based on which services will be negotiated by the HZZO. If the national registry defines the maximum agreed and active number of beds, I repeat to you ministers, define the maximum agreed and active number of beds that will then be based on the already agreed contracting services with HZZO. I kind of understand what you wanted to write, but you didn't write it because you couldn't, so first of all, you can't in the national plan pro futuro write that he's just going to find something, because he's determining it. And secondly, the national registry defines the agreed number of beds that will be negotiated with HZZO. If writing is a mistake, correct it now because with this formulation of the national plan, you are now even more confused about what is actually a function of the national register, which it actually defines and what it serves. If it is in any way possible to obtain an indication of the contents of this sentence which is contradictory to each other twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99489	Are there any more interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number two. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over, please result. I find that the majority of the 78 votes in favour, no abstentions and 36 against votes are accepted Amendment No. 2. Vlae Republic and became an integral part of the final bill. Dear Ministers of Varga Amendment No 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99490	Thank you. Chapter 8.1 of the pre-conditional and successful implementation of the National Plan in the third paragraph of the fourth subparagraph is amended and reads as follows: "The units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other parties interested in implementing certain measures of the national plan, professional societies, professional associations, associations of patients, professional chambers and others:" This amendment states that key stakeholders of the implementation of the National Plan are among other things and units of local, regional (regional) self-government, which is in line with the indications set out in the proposal for a national plan, and should take account of quality communication between all key stakeholders of the implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99491	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shucker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99492	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like to remind you of the debate at 12 months in this House of Commons. In the Law on the financing of units of local self-government where the share of income tax for those units of local self-government that have health care is reduced by 50%. If you noticed, the government adopted minimum standards in education, health care, social services two weeks ago, etc. and those minimum standards remained the same as they were in previous years. And since the share of income tax funds for local self-government units that have decentralised that care about health care is primarily about counties, then the question is that no additional funding has been provided in the budget as a reduction of 50% of these decentralised funds and there has been a reduction of 800 million kuna and only 350 million kuna has been provided in the budget. So, what the minister has just said to the local self-government units is imposed on liabilities for which no funds are provided. My colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget that this government has been talking about the recovery of county hospitals for three years, etc. in each budget. And now, so we've limited them the funds they have, we've defined the minimum standards they have to have, now we've given them more of this national program, but we haven't given them the money. It's just saying that it's not the problem in 2014, so on 2015, 2016, it's a lot of provisions of what my colleague Lesar just said earlier that some things are simply out of line with the text and that they will be inconclusive. This is just another thing that will unfortunately hang one stone around the neck of local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99493	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. No more interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please make your statement on Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 30 against Amendment 3. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. We're moving on to the amendments to the respected MPs of Mirala Holly. Dear Minister, we can do this in a row. You have a plate. Amendment 1 to the document title.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99494	Here's a thank you. The title of the amendment and the title of the document is changed. The amendment is not accepted because it is identical to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99495	Then he was accepted, consummated by the government's amendment. Thank you very much. Amendment 2 to the introduction, I don't know what the introduction is, I really don't get this?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99496	Amendment No. 2. from the introduction of the second sentence of the second paragraph, it is changed and it is said: "The important facts are the accelerated ageing of the population as well as the extension of the life expectancy." The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99497	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. You don't have to read, if you accept, and if you refuse, even if you accept it, you don't even have to explain it, you have that privilege. But it's good to explain. Amendment No. 3. on basic principles, pages 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99498	The amendment is not accepted, the amendment refers to the first sentence of the fourth paragraph, and the content refers to the first sentence of the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99499	Okay, thank you very much. There is no honourable representative, Mirela Holly, the amendment is not accepted. We must vote on Amendment 3. Please state the amendment No. The 3rd Honored Representatives of Mirela Holly, whom the Government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Amendment No. 4th to the scope of the National Plan, pages 3 and 4, Ministers of Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99500	The amendment is not accepted. The national plan makes it very clear that the inclusion of all activities would limit the development of health care depending on the needs of the local community, i.e. depending on the epidemiological characteristics of the gravitating population, which does not prejudice the negotiation of activities and activities with the HZZ in accordance with the areas of the national register.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99501	Thank you very much. We have to make a decision because there is no respected representative for the amendment to Mirala Holly. Please vote on Amendment No. The fourth government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of amendments No. 4. Amendment No. 5th to 1.3 Regions of Health Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99502	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment refers to the second sentence of the third paragraph and the content refers to the third sentence of the third paragraph. No matter what the wrong call is, it is a change in the structure sentence which does not change the meaning of the above paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99503	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. The 5th Honorable MPs of Mirela Holly, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm confirming that he hasn't received the amendment to the required majority. Can we go to Amendment No. The 6th Honored Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99504	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment of the proposal concerns the modification of concepts in the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, and the content of the National Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals is functional integration of the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99505	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Please vote on Amendment No. The 6th Honorable MPs of Mirale Holly, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. Six didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. The 7th Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99506	The amendment is not accepted. The title of Part 2.2 reads: "The project plan for the implementation of long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures for 2014-2016. Government of the Republic
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99507	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. The 7th Honored Representatives of Mirala Holly, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of amendments No. Seven respected colleagues of Mirale Holy. Amendment No. Page 8, page 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99508	The amendment is not accepted since the amendment is not accepted in connection with the addition of a new text beyond the second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Chapter 1.1 of the basic principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99509	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. Eight respected MPs, Mirela Holly, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. Eight didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 9th of the same respected MPs on page 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99510	The 9th Amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the first paragraph of the same chapter 3.3 clearly indicates the tax criteria for hospital planning and development as well as the scope of their application.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99511	Thank you very much, Minister. Please vote on Amendment No. The 9th Honorable MPs of Mirale Holly, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 9th didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. The 10th same MP, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99512	Partly accepted, Part 3.3.1 of the amendment does not accept. The proposed changes relate to changes in the expression and reshaping of the sentence and do not change the meaning of that paragraph in substance. Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99513	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 10 of the Honored Representative Mirela Holy, whom the Government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find Amendment 10 has not received the required majority. We're going to the number of amendments number 11 of the same representative 332.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99514	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99515	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 12 of the same representative, the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99516	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed changes relate to changes in the expression and reshaping of the sentence and do not change the meaning of that paragraph in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99517	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 12 of the respected representative Mirela Holy, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 12 has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment 13 of the Honored Minister, part 334 of the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99518	Now, if you'll excuse me, it's quite a long amendment number 13. It's partially accepted in segment...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99519	You can read what you accept when it is partially accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99520	The eighth paragraph is changed, where the amendment accepts correction of obvious errors in expression, a shortened PSC replaced with the PSPP, and the PDBB's words were replaced by the word PTBB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99521	Thank you very much. The rest will be spoken of, since there is no respected representative. Please vote on the remaining part of the amendment that the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the rest of Amendment 13 has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number 14 of the same respected MP, Mirela Holly, to the part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99522	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed changes relate to changes in expression and reshaping of the sentence and do not change the meaning of that paragraph in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99523	Thank you very much, Minister. Please vote on amendment number 14 of MP Mirela Holly whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Amendment number 14 of Honored Representative Mirela Holly did not receive the required majority. Amendment number 15 to part 6 of the objectives and measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99524	The amendment is not accepted. The principle of functional integration implies the hospital's cooperation where necessary and plans to be conducted between hospitals depending on the needs for health care of the gravitating population.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99525	Thank you very much, Minister. Please vote on Amendment number 15 of Honored Representative Mirela Holy, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 15 has not received the required majority. Can we, on amendment number 16 of the same representative to section 7.1?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99526	Amendment 16 relating to 7.1. is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99527	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99529	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment 17, 7.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99530	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed changes relate to reshaping the text and do not change the meaning of the paragraph in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99531	Thank you very much, Minister. Please vote on Amendment 17 which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 17 has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number 18 of the same MP, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99532	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed changes relate to reshaping the text and do not change the meaning of the paragraph in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99533	Thank you very much. I ask that we vote on Amendment number 18 of Honored Representative Mirela Holly, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find Amendment 18 has not received the required majority. Amendment number 19 to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99534	The President-in-Office, as well as the earlier proposed change, also includes the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it has already been consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99535	It's been consumed. Thank you very much. We don't have to vote, we don't have to plead, we accept. Amendment number 20 of the same representative, the respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99536	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed changes relate to reshaping the text and do not change the meaning of the paragraph in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99537	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 20 of the respected representative of Mirala Holly, whom the government has not accepted. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find Amendment 20 has not received the required majority. Thank you very much. That's when we finished discussing the amendments. I'm voting on the National Plan proposal. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 79 votes for, 27 abstentions, nothing against the adoption of the National Plan for the Development of Clinical Hospitals, Clinical Hospitals and General Hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014-2016 in the text proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99538	We will now conduct the unification of the debate: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency, first reading, P.Z. No. 780, - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults, first reading, P.Z. No. 781. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You've received reports. We have Deputy Minister Roko Andricevic with the assistant minister. Deputy, here's your opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99539	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications entered into force in 2013 through the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. In this law, the Republic of Croatia has implemented in its legal system the provisions of the EU Directive and has undertaken to implement the process of recognising qualifications acquired in the field of EU Member States. In this connection, the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of education and education in primary and secondary schools, as well as the areas of early and preschool education and education currently carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall be transferred to the authority of the agencies responsible for the development of education and education systems. However, in order for the Agency for Education and Education and the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults to assume the obligation to recognise professional qualifications, it is necessary to provide a legal basis with the above-mentioned or access to the Supplements of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. The law supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency lays down the competence of the Education and Education Agency for the implementation of the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the following professions, the Director of the School of Education, an expert associate in kindergartens, a teacher of preschool children, a school principal, a teacher in elementary school, a teacher in elementary school, a teacher in general education in high school, a teacher in elementary and secondary music and dance education, a teacher in a school home, a professional associate in a school institution. As regards the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, the responsibility of the Agency for Professional Education shall be determined for the following professions, a teacher of secondary schools, an vocational teacher in high school and an associate in teaching. Those law supplementing these agencies will allow for a faster and more efficient implementation of the procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in accordance with the obligations set out in Article 16. Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99540	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative club Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99541	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Two small laws are ahead of us which, as we have heard the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in this education portfolio, shift to competent agencies the one for education and education when it comes to general subjects, teachers and teachers of general subjects, professional associates, educators and directors, or the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, when we talk about teachers of professional subjects and professional teachers and co-workers in the course. The informal reasoning that we received at the parent committee session was that actually the capacities for this professional recognition within the ministry were weak, that is correct. The agencies, in that sense, have really been better teamed up, but if we continue to transfer jobs to the agency, and we've been doing it quite consistently for the last few years, I think the problem is going to grow there for years, so that's something that's also going to need to be dealt with systematically. However, without that, professional recognition is indeed meant to be made, and professional recognition is actually to determine whether a person has or does not have real competence to perform a particular job, so it is reasonable to make professional recognition in institutions that are otherwise engaged in the competences of persons working at school, from professional examinations, training and advancement to pedagogical supervision. In that sense, we from the SDP club will support both of these bill proposals. However, on this occasion, I would like to highlight on behalf of the club a few more details that I believe are relevant for this debate and otherwise for this topic of recognition of foreign qualifications and in regulated and unregulated professions. First, these two laws again, and they quite clearly show how our proposal from there seems to me in 2009 or 2010, and then it was about getting these two agencies together, and it certainly makes sense. We now do jobs for the same jobs, although for different types of schools we do jobs in two different agencies. It still seems meaningful and rational to us, and for schools, it would be simpler, especially when it comes to vocational schools that in their daily business, so to speak, work with two agencies on a daily basis to really bring these two agencies together. Later analyses of the experts that were done and within the framework of the strategy itself have shown that this position certainly makes sense. So as it is the first reading of the law, that is, the first readings of both laws, we can indeed do so in a second reading. In addition, this part of adult education, i.e. within the same resources, would open up space for a specialized lifelong learning agency, which is the area that is most devastation in our education system and I think is the most important, opened space not only for this, but also for the operational application of the Croatian qualification framework which is currently in the ministry because it is only at the beginning but sooner or later it will need to be singled out into some specialised agency, given that it is really professional business. Secondly, for us, a respected deputy minister, you should now be quick and welcome to amend and supplement the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. In fact, we think that something clearer needs to be arranged and in general to clarify the difference between the recognition of foreign qualifications, professional recognition and academic recognition. We have heard but I think it is never enough to repeat it because it has indeed had a lot of problems in the Republic of Croatia for almost 15 years it has not implemented the procedure of nostrification of diploma. We today would ask, and even I think here in the Croatian Parliament and generally people when we talk about foreign recognition of diplomas in the head have a process of nostrification of diplomas. Nostration is something else entirely, and I repeat it doesn't take more than 15 years. It is not a problem that politics does not know about it, it is not a problem that citizens do not know about it, but it also causes confusion in one part of the professional chamber, as well as a colleague Jovanovic in the replica of the past point spoke about it, the Assembly also reported to the Ombudsman in her report because it is not something we can replace under the carpet. Simplified and actually laysky what's this all about? Nostration is actually bringing some foreign diplomas to ours and then that would mean total equivalentness on the labour market. In practice, it seemed that someone with a foreign degree came to do the nostrification process, then they would compare education programs, so it would be said that it was this much or so many studies of differences, that is so much and so much time, so much and so much money and then it was actually being issued with our foundation and what was before and the difference that existed. Now we don't have that anymore, now we have the recognition of foreign education qualifications which is actually just formal confirmation of the value of the diploma itself. So the procedure itself determines whether the diploma has been issued by an accredited institution for an accredited programme, there is no difference, there is nothing, there is no allocation of our calling to say so but then that means there is no automatic access to the labour market. And what was before in the nostrification process was in one procedure now actually split into two and there's actually a problem. Then we come to what this law is about, which is professional recognition, or academic if it is about the process of continuing education. Here I apologize to the experts in this area, perhaps inaccuracies, but I tried to simplify the definition of simply making it clear to everyone what we're talking about here. This problem of separation to say recognition of foreign diploma and access to the labour market in two procedures to say so, or in two different points, especially when it comes to third-country diplomats, so the non-member of the European Union, we have a lot of problems here, given that there are also traditions in some parts of going to study in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Republic of Serbia, and I have to admit we have a lot of problems. Two examples, several nurses who completed their studies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our chamber had a diploma as a condition for obtaining a license. When such a nurse with a diploma from BiH comes to recognise the equivalent of a diploma, the agency issues her that the equivalent of a diploma is recognised for employment because it is a formal recognition of the same value of a diploma. However, this does not mean, at the same time, entering the labour market, and this other type of regulation should be adapted because there is no, I repeat, no nostrification process. Another example within the European Union is, for example, related specifically to this professional recognition, the Master of Contemporary English Literature, which ended in Italy, a study in Trieste, can he work as a teacher or teacher of English language in elementary or high school? Yes, it is automatically recognised as the equivalent of a diploma, a person gets a paper we recognize the equivalent of a diploma, but not with it you can't work at school since the whole part of grammar, the language in contemporary English literature, is not the content of what is taught to children at school. And then our people get from the agency recognition of the identity of the diploma and they think they've solved it all, and in fact this second professional recognition process that's being done, the definition of the competent body, it's a little bit of a problem that the competent authority is, and so I'm saying that maybe we should simplify that law or maybe put it in a different way, determine the point of access to the labour market. This was introduced for two reasons. First, to simplify the mobility of workers and their employment within the European Union. Through regulated professions, this is particularly addressed because it automatically then works. If they are in line with the directives, we also have another part of the problem, and on the other hand to protect the internal markets of the European Union from third countries. I hope I managed to explain in fact what the problem is, as well as the need to process both additionally and legally, but perhaps through some kind of campaign or in any way clarify. Third, we need to see when we talk about this law whether or not a list of regulated professions should be revised in this portfolio. When the story came with regulated professions, then... a very summarised list. In the meantime, almost every profession you can imagine is now declared by a particular competent authority as a regulated profession. It makes sense somewhere more, somewhere makes sense less, but if our goal is mobility and preventing obstacles then we need to regulate the list of regulated professions. Here we have, for example, directors of primary and secondary schools on the list of regulated professions and professional recognition. The condition for primary and secondary school directors is that it meets the conditions for teachers and teachers, with a certain number of years of work experience, a certain degree of professional training, it is now a little less important and our principal license that we still do not have in any way. I am now asking what practically means that someone who has a director's degree abroad comes to Croatia so we are doing professional recognition under this law now at the agency to give him a regulated directorial profession when it means nothing to him practically in terms of employment. It just shows that when in a situation where we actually simplify and mechanize the process, I say it by not wanting to complicate it. And lastly, and it may indeed be the least directly related to this, although it's extremely tied up, and it's almost urgent. We need new rules on the type of professional training of teachers, teachers, professional associates in primary and secondary schools. We have two, one for elementary school, one for high school. They date back to 1996. Meanwhile, there has been a reform of higher education in Croatia, new academic titles have been introduced. In the existing rule, he defines briefly, so it's a list of actually academic names that can do a certain job. For example, English language at school can be taught by a professor of English language and literature, an English graduate. For example, graduated croatologists, these are Croatian students, they can teach Croatian in high school, in primary school they can't, but we no longer have a degree in croatologists or professors of English or English but we have Bologna titles. So now we find it hard to get along in our system by comparing old and new knowledge. We had, say, environmental engineers, so it was a question of whether I could teach nature and society because it simply didn't exist in the old system, and now we're putting in that combination foreign calling to say, which we have to establish professional recognition, whether or not they're competent to work in the follow-up. So of course the correct answer here is that the long-term solution to this problem is the national curricula. I know that we from education are already quite boring with the national curricula and that it can be thought that we are almost fetishing the national curricula, but that the national curricula among other things defines the necessary competences to carry out the teaching of an individual subject, but I don't think we can wait. People have really serious problems. Of course, as I said at the outset, these are small laws, we accept them, it's reasonable to do so in agencies, but if we don't put these other homes around us that are related to the recognition of a diploma, with the determination of the necessary types of competence to do a particular job at school, I'm afraid we're going to create new obstacles to the system instead of actually moving them. The solution is not too complicated, changing the law, changing the little rule, defining the procedure, is not really a spectacle, and it would be a great help to people in both part of regulated professions and part of unregulated professions, especially with respect to diplomas from third countries, or outside the membership of the European Union. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99542	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy. Well, a colleague of Lugaric's pointed out quite extensively a few illogical issues that arise as a question that we might be able to discuss until the second reading. That way, I'll just look back on some parts of this debate. Therefore, the proposed Article 1 above is complemented by Article 4(2), so that it is prescribed that, in this case, the Agency will carry out the recognition of foreign, professional qualifications for professional education and adult education. So, classes in high school, high school teachers and classmates. But we have to look back here at what it is, and that's really what it is. So, teachers of vocational courses in a large number of secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia are highly educated, so they have completed colleges primarily of economic, commercial or commercial schools, then the Faculty of Law. This applies first of all to administrative-burotechnic schools, medical, electrical, engineering and the like, so my question immediately concerns whether it is precisely defined which agency will recognise, i.e. as it is about teachers of professional courses who have a high school qualification then the recognition of high school qualifications and periods of studies must be distinguished, so for the purpose of continuing education in the Republic of Croatia or b for the purpose of employment in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, where this is specified and whether these qualifications are recognised by the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults or the Agency for Science and Higher Education. So that's one of the questions that's being asked. It is true, perhaps the answer will be that in the secondary schools of the Republic of Croatia, a teacher in high school and a co-worker in the teaching work and employees who do not have completed colleges. We also know that, these are high school qualifications, so up to the level of four two Professional Education and Education Agency adults could recognise the identity of qualifications. However, whether it is effective, whether the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education is responsible for the recognition of qualifications for all teachers working in vocational schools and according to the above, and we consider the contributions not to be. If they are already doing the additions, which is something that my colleague before me said, then it might be good to do a quality supplement that needs to be clearly defined first and which should not be brought I will say additional ambiguities in the interpretation, so overlapping the competence of the agencies with regard to the recognition of the identity of qualifications. But what happens in nature and what's real when we talk about these two agencies, this should be some kind of important step for the better. But maybe something should change after all. So, people who work in the education system, first of all, I'm going to refer to vocational schools. There's twenty, some thirty years. They say that institutions, or agencies, overlap in their responsibilities, and very often or rarely hold back each other from making decisions. So, years ago, maybe 15 or more will remember those who were then working in the education system or who we were in it at the time, so with the Ministry only for the Bureau if I remember correctly who was called to improve education and he took care of the entire system. Then, of course, there was a separation somewhere between '95. And in 2000, two agencies were formed. So, the Agency for Education and Education, which was mostly inherited by the work of the previous institute, and that is why we must say to most of the staff what was expected at that time. Taking into account trends in the economy, the state and region were then formed and the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults with the aim of particularly dealing with vocational education, which at the moment actually accounts for 60% of the secondary system in the Republic of Croatia. The intentions were probably good, the intentions were supposed to be positive. But after a short time, people who actively worked in the system and had to address one or another agency then, in effect, met with reality. So if we were to contact an agency that was older, so the older factors in the education system would, of course, stop getting some permits, stop giving some approval, and so people, actually working in the education system, would be in some way hostages. Maybe it'll sound a little rough, people who work in the old, or who work in the new agency. Unfortunately, because of this, we also seem to have had some difficulties with EU projects, with the withdrawal of funds. Something I pray for is the answer to the question of what has been going on these days, and it is primarily about projects related to vocational education. There is some information that the European Commission has refused to the Ministry of Projects and that either they are back in the process, so please clarify if you have this information, you probably have what actually happened. Whether they were not made in quality, which was flawed and why these projects were actually returned. So, people who work in the field say we've been late for at least a year with the handover of projects, that the projects aren't realised because that old agency or the older agency has been holding back ideas from a younger agency. For example, a curiculum was brought to the computerized technicians, consisting of, for example, 30 objects. Of which 15 of those we call the general educational Croatian language, history, physical etc. for which consent is given by an older agency and the remaining 15 are professional items such as electrotechnics, electronics, mechanics for which consent is given by a conditionalally newer agency. Everyone had with the Professional Education Agency immediately within the normal period of all consent, but the other agency has continuously asked for supplements, hitchhiked, complicated type questions why the number of hours has not been reduced, etc. This is an example of the curricula, not to mention the resistance to change in ways of teaching the outcomes of learning, where, obviously, things are in place somewhere in the agency resisting some new methods because it seems to end their purpose of existence. So, without referring to anyone from individual agencies, however, the fact is that people who work in the education system, above all, are not satisfied with this kind of training. What they are proposing is on the trail of what my colleague Lugaric was saying, so the agencies are trom and slow and they also feel that the merger scenario of the agencies should be considered. Maybe joining agencies into one, so humanely filter out and leave the best people to work there and actually they justify their purpose and not that the people they should be available to actually view as a sort of obstacle. Development projects must not be halted and, of course, good ideas should be supported. And if I can't help it then don't let them get away with it because that's how we hear it, and hopefully I'll get an answer and it's too late to withdraw funds from European funds that can be obtained especially when we speak in vocational education, primarily for the equipment of cabinets or something like that, in any case, to improve the education system. The Professional Education Agency wrote nicely what its vision is, among other things, to be the bearer of the development of the Croatian economy and greater employability. Well, then somewhere we're lost from a written vision to today's realization because we actually see that the vision is just left on paper and what's actually happening isn't. So, until the second reading, with these suggestions and further clarifications, I think it might be possible to improve the activity of the agency, not only specifically about these articles that are proposed here as a purely formality, but to really help people who work in vocational education or in educational processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99544	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99545	Dear colleague Glavak, I must confess to the joy of this discussion because it shows a complete change in HDZ policy in relation to agencies, especially the Professional Education Agency. Namely, first only one correction, the Agency for Professional Education was established by a government regulation in 2005 when it was singled out from this existing Education and Education Agency in 2010. And so far, this is the first time HDZ has supported our initiative, which has since the first moment that it has not been separated, to remain in one agency, either hands and legs, to defend the existence of a special Agency for Professional Education. I hope your colleagues who may be more involved in education within the HDZ are also aware and supportive of what you said. We, of course, support it because, as I said on behalf of the club, it was our initiative through the Parliament this whole time, we even had it as special amendments when we passed the law in 2010. And I am glad that now the HDZ Club has come to this, so I conclude that the almost pointless separation of the Professional Education Agency, i.e. this part of the vocational education in a special agency, was established by the government in 2005 by means of a regulation, and then the parliamentary majority adopted through the Law itself in 2010. And secondly, at the very beginning, you asked who would do the diploma recognition? The recognition of diploma goes according to the Law of Recognition of diplomas. Therefore, the recognition of foreign diplomas works by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. This is about professional recognition which then determines whether with a certain degree someone has certain qualifications, or competences to do a certain job, here we are specifically talking about whether anyone with a degree does not know the master electronic sciences whether they can work as a professional teacher at an electrotechnical school. This will be done by the Professional Education Agency after the Agency for Science and Higher Education recognises the same value of that foreign diploma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99546	Thank you. Answer, colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our colleagues, Lugarić, will support everything that will be good and will improve in this case the education and education system. However, in this area when I was saying what could or should have happened then you didn't hear that this proposal was of course some people from the profession, people looking for a better way for agencies to stop them as little as possible. In any case, HDZ will always support projects that are good. They were gone by now. And what was going through the media is, for example, there's a consensus on education reform, no, it's not true so far, it doesn't exist. Change is necessary, and that's what we keep warning about. So what we particularly apostrophe when I'm talking about reforming education is that we can't agree to the way it's imagined and above all about how we implement it. So someone, a political force that has a majority in the Croatian Parliament, is going to name all the commissions that I don't know how to do under the pretext that they're non-party people, that they're all experts, and someone else should do it. So that's just one example. And once again I say everything that's in order to improve that we can support it. However, in this case, I have given you concrete examples of people who complain about the ineffectiveness of the agencies and who have said that they may need to connect to one agency so that they do not expose themselves here to who is in charge of whom or which agency is older, so they have more authority or take it as their right to decide than that said young agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99548	Thank you. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues with your debate also agree that now in the replica your colleague Lugarić told you that this Professional Education Agency means that it was founded in 2005 but in reality it is necessary to listen to a profession that says it may be good to unite those agencies for purely economic reasons. Among other things, simply because there is no higher employment in craftsmanship, in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and somewhere since 2005, and especially back three years, more than 3,000 crafts have been closed, especially if you are looking at the situation in Zagreb. What I'm about to tell you in 2013 is the school year and 2014, let's say for the mechanics of agricultural machinery, only seven students are listed, apparently talking about the state of agriculture. We've only got seven students enrolled. However, traditional occupations such as the musician for string music, builder of wooden boats, builder of metal ships, organ builder, collage, blacksmith, roof blanket, furryer, leftover, miller, milkman, eye optician, oven, no student signed up for the school year 2013 and 2014, but it is also not back three years nor one but all that I have counted now who did not sign up have the turns closed. So what's important in the whole story, I think at least it's to create an assumption especially when it comes to vocational education that young people who decide on vocational education have a place to work. However, they have no place to work and, unfortunately, three years back, less and less and less to be appreciated, it is craftsmanship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99550	Time. Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, I can see that you have well-numbered these occupations that will already sound archaic in due course because we are actually going to look for them by increasing them where these children are or where these occupations are gone. However, I will rely on what was actually at the beginning of your replica, which is that we actually have to educate the staff our economy needs and then cannot say it to someone who is sitting in the agency but can, of course, say the economy in the county where the vocational school in which these staff is acting is going to recognize it. I'm going to give you an example from Međimurje County where there's a highly appreciated metal profession where we have a great vocational school and where businessmen who are metal professions take children, follow them from the first grade, they sort of stimulate them, they raise them in their education process or work process, and such children are at the end of their four-year training career. So they need that part and they're schooling for something that is essential to the economy. If we're just going to watch who confirms which paper or which is whose ingenuity then we won't have enough educated personnel that could be found on the labour market, then we'll continue to produce unfortunately personnel for those interests that are already too high in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99552	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99553	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the assistant minister of science. I, without any special ambitions to enter the profession of education, will comment on the club's amendment to the Law on Education and Education from the position of experiences, i.e. the implementation of the process of recognising the same value or nostration of diplomas and later problems with the recognition of professional qualifications because we consider this to be one of the basic tasks of this agency and the life problem of young people who need to start working, or who have completed their education. Nomotechnically this is a very simple law, consisting of only one norm, or two norms, but it is essentially very complex because later in the debate we will see how much we have chosen, or how masterly we have complicated the life of a particular category of young, educated people. And otherwise, these changes, I think they're on the trail of our representative's question that we've asked the minister, and we think Article 1, or this norm, is satisfactory, and we're going to accept these changes on behalf of the club. Racios of the whole law is the last paragraph, the last view of the reasoning of this law, which says that "the proposed law will allow for a faster and more efficient implementation of the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in accordance with the obligations set out in Article 16. The law." etc. etc. So it would be good if we really were, if we could do this job faster and more efficiently than we've done so far. So, we have a situation why I say this, because so far we have had a situation that, in fact, before entering the EU, when the recognition of foreign educational qualifications acquired outside the EU had been resolved by competent educational agencies in a way that nostrified diplomas, solutions were obtained, and then this young man could get a job. The entry into the EU has made it quite complicated, i.e. after 1.7.2013, the entry into force of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has created problems regarding the professional recognition of higher education qualifications for those categories, for those persons, students, graduates who have acquired diplomas outside EU countries, these have already been mentioned the most common situation of the countries mentioned, which are Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, because some people's life paths and life situations have led people to the very same country, where they have completed their studies and are now intending to return to their country of origin and to work with such high qualifications. Although they are formally recognised as being educated by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, they refer to the procedure of some of the competent chambers, some of the ministries, or agencies, in order to recognise the basic matter, which is a professional qualification. So we have a nostrification going into the next phase as I realized it, if I didn't get it right, I'd let it get me right, so we're going to get professional qualifications. Okay. There's a problem behind that. In the system of education and education they are less expressed in some other systems or in some other segments of life such as health care are they quite complicated, and I will say the same few sentences about it. Therefore, all who were granted a diploma until their entry into the EU and who had begun to do a traineeship were not allowed to pass a state-run expert exam during the traineeship. When they requested a state examination, they were told that they had to apply for professional recognition of qualifications from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but the ministry did not give the necessary instructions on how to resolve the legal gap, so that the parties were not invited to take state examinations. The answer to this question was delayed, creating additional uncertainty and uncertainty in these people. So that's what happens in practice. This problem is being warned, so a number of such cases came from elementary schools in Jagodnjak, Vukovar, and we were reported by citizens or parents of such children. And we, of course, warned the ministry of jurisdiction about this kind of impediment in the process, and we think that this was about the silence of the competent authorities or authorities, that it was about here and about the unpreparedness and unpreparedness of those bodies for this process that followed after the entry into the EU, and only at the end of 2014 have we managed to solve the problem for these people, i.e. the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, found a solution for all those who founded a working relationship before joining the EU. Their problem was resolved relatively quickly and without additional and special conditions, and they were assured that state examinations were passed. The problem arises for those people who entered the whole process after we joined the EU because they must go through a certain process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. And then in life, we have a situation where two young people, so Croatian citizens sit and take a year's internship, train according to the same jobs, according to the same legislation. He who graduated from the Faculty in Zagreb does not have to obtain that professional qualification can take the state exam, the one who came from Novi Sad he enters the process from which this problem now arises. So we generally welcome this way of solving this problem, and we think that with this one norm in these amendments the whole process will be accelerated, simplified and that the ministry or agency will prepare all the accompanying acts, all the regulations to simplify this whole procedure for these young people. I have to pull the parallel here and with health care where the story is much more complicated. We have here I'm going to say that I'm going to make one case so I'm trying to bring some life stories closer to our problem. A certain Mr. Maric graduated from the dental school in Novi Sad, the internship started in Knin in 2013, when he applied for a state exam after his internship, he was told that the agency's solution is no longer recognised because of its entry into the EU, that he must enter the procedure for nostrification of diplomas in the ministry and must go to take certain exams in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. He started the procedure, so it's working here I want to say how complicated we are. He started the procedure, collected some kind of pile of paper, paid the chamber 11.5 thousand kuna for nostrification, waited for a commission decision on the compliance of Croatian educational plans and programmes with those with whom he had taken or completed his studies, the commission eventually decided that he was missing 11 exams. Each contains a theoretical and practical part, seminar works, etc. And he's missing 500 hours of practical work in the profession. The question is, can he do that 500 hours in the profession? Mostly this whole schooling and schooling would take him two years and cost him about 50,000 kuna somewhere. At the same time, whoever comes from Romania does not have to go through it, by the very fact that this one is outside the EU, and this one is an EU citizen. The second option was the laying of the so-called so-called. The training in the profession, which consists of 10 exams in front of the professor's commission, stands somewhere around 6 thousand kuna. Otherwise, after a ten-month procedure when the exam is scheduled for the chamber to adopt a new rule, it proposes that as many as 60 new exam exams go out 12 people who do not pass that exam because they do not have the right to fall, they do not have the right to repeat exams, etc. And now I'm asking a question finally, one question, so we can interpret this text in a few other ways, the basic question, 200 thousand young educated people left Croatia, of which 8 hundred doctors. These people are from a place of special state concern where nobody is pushed too much to go, it's not very attractive to be a doctor in Žegar, it's much more attractive to be in Čakovec or at my place in the White monastery than to be in the Court. And that's the kind of people they want to be, and this is the kind of kind of administrative approach that we complicate, make it impossible for these people to leave. And we'll probably get some new people to those same places, maybe some people from some other European countries, everyone would like them to be Germans, I don't think they're coming, these less paid than our doctors are. And it's a simple approach to that problem. Maybe I didn't explain it most happily in some of the elements because I don't have the ambition to deal with this profession or to document people from the profession, but we're not clear at all that we're masters in the complexity of these procedures and that this whole thing comes down to the fact that it takes you two years, four, five years to graduate and two years to nostrate. That thing won't make any sense to me. I thank you for reacting to these phenomena in this way that you have brought these amendments to the law. The health parallel was only for reasons to say what kind of thing is on the ground, otherwise in health care, or in school, education is not as critical a situation as I just said. And for that reason, we will accept these amendments to the law, or additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99554	Thank you. We're starting with the replicas of Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99555	I thank you, my colleague Horvat, for the discussion, for pointing out the problems of individuals and all of us who are involved in education can give a few dozen of these examples, especially I said that on behalf of the club for our citizens who have been educated in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the Republic of Croatia. But it's not, it's completely wrong and I don't think it's a good thing to bring about a moment of injustice in this debate. You said, they finished colleges, they did internships, then one can, the other can't. You forgot to say one thing, they finished various educational programs at the beginning because we are our educational programs, so, by the way, our nurses today have problems if they want to enter universities in Croatia in line with European directives and these are not the question of our complications of these or those processes, but these are the European directives they just wanted to ask for equal programmes. The problem is precisely in those hours of practice, because we also had a counter process where our sisters in the middle when they wanted to finish for more sisters went to one neighbouring country to mention not to mention, for several thousand euros and three seminar weekends they received high professional training because they did not have, they satisfied the European directive that a certain number of hours must be spent on practice or a certain number of clinical colleges, specifically with sisters but the same applies to all regulated professions. So that's really a problem for people who live there, some will, in some professions and some professions the problem will be easier these are our educational ones, in some others it won't really be easy. And yes, indeed, people will have to spend a certain number of years on education, so it's not nostration, I repeat, it's academic recognition where the level is equaled, and not because of our whim or our kind or such administration, but because of the European Union Directives that have been introduced just to level the first education systems, in order to then result in equal competences and automatic recognition at the end. Of course within and regions will happen that the European Union process will expand, these problems will be smaller but we must not equate and seek injustice where, in fact, objectively, there is no sympathy for the people who have these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99556	Thank you. My colleague Horvath's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99557	Thank you. My colleagues, Lugarić, I probably can't do good business with you because it's your sphere of education. However, what makes me quite a logical conclusion cannot, until the entry into the European Union for the same value, require 11 additional tests after a certain date, require 60 different tests. Obviously, those people out there who finished dentistry in Belgrade or New Sad who are otherwise colleges in the voice don't know these things as well as we do just because we got in... in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I allow some things to have changed in a formal sense, but I mean that this is, I have the impression that this is more of a matter of administrative entanglement than a real need. I talked to the chamber representatives, they weren't even prepared to do that. They don't even know where to start. And I'm thinking about what this is about. What I'm saying is that we've turned out to be masters of administrative entanglements and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99558	Replica, a respected colleague of the Montenegrins.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99559	Thank you. Well, you mentioned examples by your colleague Horvat, and you stated that this was an example of a person who had completed medicine in Serbia. However, I think that there is actually one other thing to emphasize, and that is actually that it is about the education of our citizens, so how much we as a state have invested in the education of our citizens who gain high qualifications and skills both in other countries and in other universities. Yeah, there's that difference, there are levels, I agree, but maybe you, perhaps in this explanation, would be better off mentioning some person who's graduated from college in some of the countries, let's say that if it comes to an example of information science in Japan or another country in medicine. And what's important is that we just point out whether this process and how we motivate them to go back to Croatia and do that job they were trained for, what they were learning or to stay possibly in those countries and work, whatever it isn't their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99560	The last replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Horvat, in principle everything what my colleague Lugaric said, I wanted to tell you, but I want to tell you something else. Really in everything that, what's the problem? It is indeed a problem in the programme and we must finally understand that we are a member of the European Union and there are no more choirs about it. And we remember the time very well, and you or your colleague listed it, when some went to some places, so here's what I'm going to tell Banja Luka or some places in Serbia, some schools of type of economic, teaching, everything in reality, and in a few months we'd be back with diplomas. Personally, if I were a minister or a minister, I'd go to everyone's office and check out those diplomas. They can't be equally valid. No matter how highly I appreciate colleges and universities and professors at some universities and in Serbia and BiH, we must, fortunately we are members of the European Union and we cannot have double standards. Therefore, everyone must adhere to what is Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99562	The reply to the replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99563	Dear colleagues, I have not questioned the fact that we have entered the European Union or not. We have, of course, entered the European Union and it has its own price and, of course, this is just the result of the adjustment process which will not be so simple. We see it in this segment. However, if people say that there is a fact that two people, I repeat, after having recognised their diplomas, so nostrified diplomas go to do the internship so that they can pass a professional exam, in the same institution, according to the same rules of doing that year and now one cannot take the exam, and the other one has to. Maybe I'm wrong, but it doesn't seem too logical or too useful to this society, and then all together, we put them in some kind of chamber that still doesn't fit in this whole thing, which will further complicate things like I said, which will charge them fat, and then we make them do 500 hours somewhere. So for two years these people have to pay rent somewhere, some father has to pay someone in Zagreb for two years, and that's all when you get that young man to raise his hands and go somewhere where there's no such complications and we're running out of time, we're left without these 800 doctors who are so welcome in Germany. That's all I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99564	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS Club, a respected representative, Igor Coleman, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99565	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. The esteemed Deputy Minister and the esteemed Assistant Minister. We were really able to push into an article of change so many topics that this debate reminded me of that one custom, for a time it was popular especially at American universities, that perhaps fellow Andricevic remembers how many people could get pushed into Volkswagen's bug. So we have managed to push a bunch of topics, and therefore, by respecting your time, in principle with most of what has been said so far, especially in the presentation of my colleague Lugaric, I will indeed put into two sentences the position of the HNS Club on this proposal of the law that we are originally talking about, or two drafts of the law, but it is changing in them that one and the same thing that the responsibility of recognising professional qualifications is being transferred to the agencies. There's nothing questionable about us in HNS, that proposal is acceptable to us, and we will support it. This is ultimately in line with the obligations we have made as a member of the European Union and also in accordance with the existing law, i.e. the laws in this country. And just one note, the introductory text says that this will allow for a faster and more efficient implementation of the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. You colleagues Andricevic and you colleagues... well you know that the law itself is unfortunately not a guarantee of anything. And in that sense, and in the context of all the things that colleagues and colleagues have said before, they will need there, of course, because it is a valid goal, which is why we support and that we are going to go into these changes, but it really needs to be achieved, and there won't be enough just to write and vote the law, but it will be necessary in the application and implementation of that law, then really to make sure that it does, and I will really respect the time that we all end here. Otherwise, the record is 20. 20 people shoved themselves into that old Volkswagen bug.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99566	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the respected Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99567	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister of Education, Sports and Science. The National Minorities Club in the Croatian Assembly will support the draft law supplementing the Agency's law, i.e. both of these laws, as we have united the debate and I would say at the beginning. Rules, rules, to drown me. The rules, the rules, in black, turned me around. Some stupid rules. I would say at first, and so I would actually start, I would not immediately stick to this bill of law, but I would return to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications and, as already pointed out by me, it is a bigger problem than I have ever seen a partial settlement of a particular issue of regular professions because it has determined which way it will go, which will be a list of regulated professions, and here in my view is the basis of the whole problem. I did not arrive last year, unfortunately, although I applied for the debate, when we changed this law last year, and we only changed it in one segment di he seemed to me on the passport because it seems we did not because we forgot to put it into law when we passed it in 2011 or already in the previous 2009 so that our citizens who regulate this issue in the Republic of Croatia could work uninterruptedly in other EU member states and in the European Economic Area. So, as I said, this law is, therefore, adopted in 2009 in the adoption of the directive, or as we knew at that time to say the legal gains of the EU which we absolutely did not analyse in detail and did not foresee what problems we would have if we only formally met the criteria of the chapters for EU entry. Unfortunately, we now have these laws, or other laws, that we must change instead of changing this law that I have said, the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. I would point out here, so it might be even more important for us to say so to divide this problem into two groups or groups of people. The first thing is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the second is that citizens who do not have our citizenship or citizenship are EU states or countries of European economic space, and they live in the Republic of Croatia and here want to, so to work and work. We are, of course, the most affected by this group of people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, for the citizens of other countries, the rules are clear and they come, therefore to the Republic of Croatia from, for the sake of permanent residence, work and other things and as I have said their countries of origin are not the Republic of Croatia. As part of this law on regulated professions, we have one, we have very many groups to say regulated professions. I'll just say, therefore, that there is a basis for Article 72 of the Law on, paragraph 1. The law on regulated professions is 68 groups, a group of professional activities, a pardon that should regulate their professions in the Republic of Croatia. There are competent authorities here who need to carry out these procedures and based on which acts to be done. Normally, we, as we have already spoken here in many professions, have not done so, although we have entered the EU as I said in 1.7.2013, although we have passed the law in 2009 and have changed it in 2011, we have not prepared enough, nor have we at that time been interested, but have only been interested in satisfying formally, or in the conditions of the chapters that should have been closed on the road to EU entry. Why do I say that? Because we always have problems afterwards and now we say we are adapting to the EU. Well, we were supposed to adapt in 2011, 2012, not 2015. The proposal first and foremost states that this is about professions dealing primarily with school, pedagogical professions and in this direction, and especially for national minorities I would say this is an important topic. Why? Because in the Republic of Slovenia, national minorities, for example, have the right to education in their own language and letter. As we know in the preamble of the Constitution are defined individually by these, namely national minorities, but let's say for many of them we have problems when we need to provide especially professors who would teach in their native language in the Republic of Croatia. So that most of these national minorities, or members of national minorities, or members of those national minorities, are educated in their countries of origin, while being citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll quote you which. For example, in the Constitution, these national minorities who have problems are Serbs, Jews, Ukrainians, Russians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Roma, Turks, Albanians, this is half of the list of non-EU national minorities or members of the European Economic Area and they must, in fact, be Croatian citizens and must pass this process. So I can't, because we don't have a way of education, let's say, educational workers working in these schools, they have to be educated in their countries, and they have very big problems. You've heard how much it's medicine or some other professions, but I'd say there's another one in this section, let's say the circumstances we didn't count on, and I'll tell you what it is. You see, if he comes, even in this part if you don't have a teacher who teaches in native language you have the right to the Republic of Croatia to out-of-the-quota visas bring teachers and hire in the Republic of Croatia to work in that class. That means the state has allowed the professor to come, if we don't have him, in the Russian language, to come an example from Russia, but he won't be able to start teaching until this whole process is passed as indicated here. Once that's over, they'll be able to teach wherever they want, but basically not here. What's important here is that there are bilateral contracts that regulate these materials. So this is complex material, I'm saying in front of the national minority club absolutely agree with this proposal. We're sorry this just came on the agenda. I know, there are circumstances and agendas in the Assembly when it is yet to come, but unfortunately, we are only now on first reading. We've been followed by procedures, so we've brought a lot of things by emergency procedure, and we're going through a regular procedure, we're going to first reading. Maybe there'll be a third reading. We only have one article to change here and we're going to the regular procedure. So I think we could have ended it in a much better and much, much more efficient way. In any case, the club of national minorities will support both proposals to amend the law with a finding and regret that these things were not done long, long before and with a call, because I was even thinking maybe with the conclusion that or to change this law as it was initially pointed out the law was regulated... that it may even be a special law, but with a requirement to make these things as soon as possible and in other areas regulated by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as I've now led here to have 68 of these groups seem to me. So here from this pay phone I call on all relevant institutions, but first and foremost the Ministry of Labour, Mr Miranda Mrsic, to speed up these processes. He promised us it seemed to me last year when there was a debate that this would even go on last fall but unfortunately we were welcomed this year, unfortunately. And that's all from a national minority club in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99568	Thank you. We've got one replica, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I listened to you, and I couldn't quite get concrete things out, which is exactly what you're trying to say. But I'm going to tell you now an example similar to yours. A colleague of my son ended up in Klagenfurt music, it's called Higher School, not to speak in German. He returned to Croatia, finished high school music, returned to Croatia, and his diploma is not recognised. It was not recognised until 2013. You see, the thing is that our universities passed accreditation before they joined the EU means and now they are being renewed and accreditations that do not appear in third countries. We can't ask, so I'm going to say double standards or triple standards again. Let's just say that Serbs living in Croatia, or some other national minority, are not at all a problem for Czechs or any other Hungarians, Hungarians who are going to study and go to Budapest or Hungary will be simpler, right? Is that you? And you're saying that those who study in Belgrade will find it harder to find a job here? Well, it will be, yeah. It will be, i.e. it will need its diplomas and nostrification and will need to complete programmes that are regular in the Republic of Croatia if they want to work in the Republic of Croatia. Because that is the problem our citizens and our young people from Croatia who studied in EU countries when we were not a member of the EU and all diplomas believe from the music academys to I don't know either my veterinary and everything else had to be nostrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99570	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99571	Well, I have one question. Is there somewhere in Croatia that a person can finish his studies and acquire the appointment of a professor of Serbian language and literature? He can't. And why can't he? Because he's gone. So he has to finish it where he's got it. Why? Because there is education in Croatia in both Serbian and Cyrillic letters. That's the first thing. The second thing about the recognition of diploma or nostrification as we know it by saying fine the first thing, i.e. the recognition of diploma, is that one of the conditions for you to get what you said about Klagenfurt evenly in the Republic of Croatia is that that college has a license from that state. So, you said about Banja Luka, you mentioned some other colleges in Subotica, but if that state had issued a work license and those diplomas were being checked absolutely and so far, so they've been checking themselves so far and it wasn't at all controversial what you said at some point to end up in a year or what I know, it's little to me, there's probably a private college to say that they have such programs but the states have granted them. And I'm going to ask you one more question. You are, last term was the HDZ mandate, you have the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, you have a situation that you must achieve proportionate representation, not only of Serbs but of all national minorities in state public bodies. How are you gonna do that? Especially if they finished colleges, say, in their native language. I, for example, had a colleague who was Hungarian and who couldn't pass one exam. He said I don't understand this, this isn't in my mother tongue. And I totally figured it out. But if he had studied in Hungary he'd probably have finished college without a problem. Well, I mean, listen, but the other thing is, we do. That's why I was talking about the law on regulated professions. For us to need them here, this is a good step, but we should do it in all other fields. So what about the lawyers? What about other professions?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99572	On behalf of HSU, respected MP Ljiljana Cvetovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99573	Dear Vice-President, deputy with associate Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party welcomes the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the Agency for Education and Education, as well as the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. It has been a year and a half since the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia and almost nothing has been done in terms of the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for regulated professions in education and education in the Republic of Croatia. Although it was an obligation by the Republic of Croatia to do so by joining the Union. The Department for Education and Education at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provided one information, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, a national contact point for the provision of information on the recognition of professional qualifications of the other, and the Education and Education Agency for third interpretation. People who needed recognition of professional qualifications in the field of education and education found themselves in this way to say unguarded grapes. Some of them even started and did a traineeship because almost no institution had the right information and when they were to take a professional exam they were not allowed to do so. All you have to do is imagine yourself in a situation like this. I will give a concrete example of the Faculty of Natural and Mathematical Sciences and Educational Sciences and the University of Mostar, as a few years ago an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the University of Mostar that professors from Croatia help create scientific springs, a large number of professors from all Croatian universities as well as external co-workers help to realize teaching until young people when Bosnia and Herzegovina acquire conditions for elections in titles. Former students who mastered the Faculty of Natural and Mathematical Sciences and Educational Sciences from the study of pedagogy and Croatian citizens found themselves in problems. Namely, they nostified their diploma without any difficulty at the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Some of them were admitted to traineeship in primary and secondary schools, mostly according to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System programme. However, the problem arises from Croatia's entry into the EU because the Law on regulated professions is in force. This means that all those who wish to work in educational institutions other than nostrified diplomas must also have a solution to regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. This solution was meant for all those who graduated or mastered outside the Republic of Croatia, so it is not only Bosnia and Herzegovina but also other states. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was responsible for this, more specifically, the Education and Education Administration. Since the Croatian Qualifications Framework Law on regulated professions on the field of education and other legal and sublegal acts in the Ministry's Education and Education Administration has not been resolved, it means since 1.7.2013 because it simply couldn't be solved. The Education and Education Agency could not allow those persons who started training in educational institutions to pass a professional examination without that solution. We hope that the matter will finally be resolved and that the rules on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for regulated professions in education and education will be adopted much faster. The three-way system to young people who are at the beginning of their war careers has done great injustice. It is time to correct it if all this continues to be a snail step it would be time to stop talking about student mobility, democratic society, the right of all to work, etc. However, there is still much work to be done here, so we propose the adoption of appropriate sublaws or regulations on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. To this end, coordination of the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, the Education and Education Agency and the Agency for Science and Higher Education should be established. In order to ensure the selection of as high-quality professional staff as possible, we propose that two new sub-items are added in the current Article 4(3), which are extended to the adoption of criteria for selecting advisers and senior advisers to carry out professional tasks in agencies and to adopt criteria for selecting the heads of county expert councils in primary and secondary schools of the Republic of Croatia. This is needed to avoid various manipulations and to be really the most qualified employees in these important places. In addition, if we have evaluation criteria on students, we should also be able to evaluate the work of professional staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99574	Thank you. And he had one individual discussion. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with an associate. It's really simple this law when it's read with this one and a half point that changes, but it's important to change, and it's the law itself with that I'm going to refer a little bit more and give it to try to give meaning to the Professional Education and Education Agency itself, I'm going to stick to that second point, thinking that it might be more important than it looks. For us in HNS education after security and care for the most important and first priority of the hierarchy of state affairs, the jobs that the state must do for its citizens. The state by definition has a very clear and simple function, it exists to make life easier, easier, better quality and happier for its citizens. But leading the country is an extremely complex, demanding job that requires primarily personal honesty, knowledge, skills, and especially often strong positive energy. And it really can't be done by everyone and can't be done by everyone. In principle, we created the state ourselves, self-aware citizens and citizens in the desire to live in an orderly society, thus giving up some of our freedoms and giving the state in the hands of instruments to introduce standards that will put us all in the same initial position, which will frame us by encouraging our personal freedoms, talents and ambitions. For this state through taxes, we pay our contributions for those services, and it brings it back to us through certain regulated areas such as the e.g. electricity or water, roads, railways, health care or pension system, education. As I said earlier, one of the most important services in the HNS is education for us, if not the most important service that the state provides to its citizens. According to the law, the activity of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education is a dried-up decision. And let me just have a few roles listed by the agency to read in order to perhaps give the weight and importance of the work of the agency itself. It shall carry out analytical, developmental, research activities for the activities of the professional education and adult education systems, prepare proposals for standard of interest and give an expert opinion on the proposals of other proposings, develop professional curricula and provide expert opinions on the proposals of other applicants, mean it itself, promotes cooperation and participates in the project of programmes and projects related to the development of adult education and vocational education systems, prepare and implement programmes and projects financed or co-financing from EU funds and other forms of international assistance, means it shall prepare and carry out financing, procurement, procurement, contracting, monitoring of projects co-financed from EU funds, carry out the training of staff in the professional education and education system of adults, organise and carry out professional examinations, as well as the professional promotion process for teachers in vocational education as a public authority. So he organizes and conducts expert exams, i.e. The whole process shall be carried out. It lays down criteria for the establishment and implementation of supervision of adult funding and education systems in software, investment and material business, organises and conducts state competitions of students and examinations of student work in the system of vocational education, establishes and maintains an information system with a database on institutions and their participants, staff and material conditions of property and other relevant information related to the activities of institutions. It is reportedly seen that the agency as a regulatory professional mechanism helps and actively improves the level and quality of vocational education and adult education. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education is one of the most important educational institutions in Croatia. This important role should be further developed and affirmed. Personally... 90% of citizens don't even know that this agency exists. The agency must not be self-sufficient, its work must be as public as possible, as clear as possible and as loud as possible. Professional education with its quality in theoretical and practical knowledge and skills must give young people and employment opportunities immediately after school in various employers. Professional education can and should be the most qualitative starting point for carrying out independent activities or crafts and small entrepreneurship activities. Professional education must enable young entrepreneurs to acquire quality knowledge immediately after high school, which will encourage them and encourage them to move into an exciting, challenging and risky adventure of private entrepreneurship. Professional schools must be a waste of professional and practical knowledge and skills set up by very young people to open their energy, courage, even incompetence with full knowledge and simply desire to prove, why not, with a desire for personal wealth, as very young people, their crafts, or businesses. The same is true in adult education, not wanting to discuss lifelong education, for which it should take a few days with counterpart Lugaric, it should be noted that one of the bigger social problems of unemployed people is over 50 years old but not only over 50 but also slightly younger adults. In addition to the fact that many of their knowledge is lost by various crises, the labour market is no longer curative. A number of professions, for various reasons over time, simply die out. Qualifying, retraining or some other form of adult education may and should also enable adults or, more importantly, should be limited and encouraged to engage in independent activities and entrepreneurial waters. The State must encourage and enable quality education programmes for everyone to be educated and requalified and fully qualified for new occupation or the opening of their own crafts or businesses. It's always worth it by the state or I'd say the most rewarding investment. And not only to remove more or fewer people from the social list, but also to feel the acceptance of them and thus, if I may say the health of the nation. And for the quality of the successful performance of all this, the agency is responsible. We put a huge responsibility on that agency's back together, and she has to accept that responsibility, and we all have to help her. It's really a way out of some crisis situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99576	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate belong to Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Honorable Rok Andricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. Let me first thank you sincerely for a very constructive discussion, discussion and concrete suggestions. A lot, not to say most of what you said was also a topic and our discussions, a debate in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports itself when we were thinking about applying everything these laws foresee. It was particularly nice to hear the comments and suggestions about the possibility of bringing these two agencies together, a topic which was and believe it and is currently in the ministry as one topic that is being thought about intensively. Of course, we must not interfere with the fact that the strategy of science and education and technology is considering functional transformation precisely for the purpose of quality assurance. So that's also something that's certainly a topic, and you said yourself this is the first reading, so there's going to be a lot more debate about the possibilities of applying it. I would also like to emphasise that the amendments to the law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications are under way and that the procedure will likely take place at the end of the first quarter of this year. I can no longer agree with you how demanding this is for both agencies because there are exactly those examples that you yourself have spoken about that require a very specific way of evaluating professional qualifications. We are under three rules that need to ensure better implementation of these laws. I will single out only one and this is the rule on the type and level of education in primary and secondary school something mentioned by the distinguished representative Lugaric. There have also been discussions on withdrawing funds from European funds for vocational education, which is also one topic that is very interesting. However, we bear in mind that the operational programme was adopted at the end of the 12th month last year so that we are just now starting to do so. How successful we will be is likely to know at the end of 2015 as a first step. Of course, capacity is needed, not only in the agency, meaning in one and the other, but also in the ministry itself that these funds can be successfully withdrawn. And I'd just like to point out that I don't think he's too late to withdraw, but at the moment, it's just a crucial period of preparation for such projects that need to withdraw those funds. I repeat, the users of these funds are not only the two agencies we are talking about today but they are also different users in the very system that can be those who will withdraw these funds. I thank you once again for a very useful debate and I am sure there will be a lot of revisions and concrete proposals in the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99578	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99579	We move to a vote on the points discussed. First of all, the draft law supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency, first reading, P.Z. No. 780. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Education and Education Agency is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please join the vote. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached on the adoption of the P.Z. Act. No. 780.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99622	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2015; The Proposer of the Annual Plan is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. No, I don't. It's not necessary. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99623	So this was really fast. Dear Vice President, thank you again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed deputy and assistant. Today we spent most of the day here in the company of the Minister of Health Sinishi Varge and we discussed the plan for the development of hospitals in Croatia and an interesting detail in this text that stuck to my eye and related to this story about statistics is that depending on whether you ask the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance or the Croatian Institute for Public Health or the Agency for Quality and... in health care and social care, or health institutions themselves, you get different information about things like that. The number of workers in the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then making a plan, it's all in that text, and then making that plan takes longer because one of the things that needs to be established is how many people work in the health system, how many people in Croatia are working in hospitals. Because competent institutions have different data. And of course that's not good. It's not good and it can't work that way. Serious statistics is one of the fundamental tools of a serious state. And the policies we create and the decisions we make are either based or should at least be based on valid statistical data. Let's say today we have here in this previous debate the situation in which we actually have a relevant and credible review of what qualifications we have, in which number, what diplomas, from where, therefore, to create a policy and answer problems is the first step for us to have relevant data. I remember, say, discussing kindergartens the same thing, or preschool. You know, if you remember a colleague and a colleague who took part in this, when we had a preschool debate, then 50% of the debate between us was about how much children really are involved. We didn't have that information. And we were actually divulging half the debate is that much, is it that little, and then of course the question was whether it was relevant or not. And the whole story without serious statistical background can of course not act seriously, nor can trends and developmental directions be predicted without serious data, nor can anything seriously be planned without statistics. Neither can the budget be done seriously, nor can personnel policy change. Today, human policy has been a topic of health, and there is the same theme. Neither can this be planned without serious data nor can it be entered into any reform, and we are constantly full of reforms, in any system unless we have data on systems, about the space in which we live and about people living and operating in that space. The point is that decisions relating to valid statistical data are to a greater or lesser extent scientifically justified and since they are scientifically justified then their chance to end up with a positive outcome is statistically higher. So without statistics, without serious statistics, we can hardly seriously manage the state. And we, as we have seen from the example of this plan on hospitals, are still struggling with the establishment of the number of employees in the state and public administration in Croatia. So we haven't been able to agree on any basic data yet. And now we have this statistical activity plan for this year, for 2015, the month and a half has already passed but well, I guess it's never too late. The plan envisions 283 surveys from which the State Institute will carry out 227 of them. It's a huge material, and I have no intention of listing it now, and you've all seen it, so he's very detailed about what's going to be in it, and we at the HNS support this plan, he's not in himself controversial. However, it is a pity, in fact, that with absolute respect for you who are here in this tiny hour, and you defend it, it is a pity that there is no director of the office because what we really need, I am going back to the beginning of my debate, should have all of us together, especially those who are doing statistics sitting down and seeing what the basic data that we are missing in this country so that we can build on their basis then build policies, make decisions, plan, predict trends and developments. And in that sense, in some future plans of statistical research, apart from all of these that are listed in different categories, we should actually go back to the beginning and see what we're missing, why we are today 2015. 25 years after the establishment of an independent state, we don't really know how many people work in public administration. Ask your colleague Linic when the pay stuff is any problems. So that's what our recommendation is. We support this, but the return to the future or the return to the past is that finally some basic data these statisticians deliver to us and that they are available as they are, credible, verified and that on their basis they can then be further built, worked, planned and predicted. Here's so much from us. Anyway, we support this plan, it's not disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99624	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99625	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister, Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2015 will be supported by the HDZ Club. First we must commend the time when this proposal is on the agenda, I would not like to be a colleague since the 2012 plan was in October that same year, and for 2013 in April so that we are great this year. The State Statistics Office is the main holder and coordinator of the system of official statistics. In accordance with the Law on Official Statistics and in accordance with international recommendations and standards that meet the principles of European statistics, our institution is doing its job in a good way. The programme should be based on the needs of users and also on the requirements of the European Union. The same structure was applied in the annual implementation plan and in the preparation of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2017. The purpose and reason for the existence and development of the statistical system should be focused on present and future users in order to meet their needs as high as possible. And it's true that statistical research is not itself a purpose. These surveys should be a guideline for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The annual implementation plan plans to conduct a total of 283 statistical surveys, however, how to carry them out in a quality manner if the funds are provided for these activities are reduced. In addition to numerous reports and surveys on employees and salaries, surveys on household consumption, consumer price index and the like, there are no data in the Republic of Croatia on living standards in Croatian cities or regions. The publication of employment data, for wages we only have at the annual level for counties, cities and municipalities. Demographic data are published on June 30th for the last year for the born, deceased and married. No one deals with this data except sometimes journalists. They also estimate what is the most expensive, cheapest city in Croatia, who has the lowest prices of kindergartens, who has the most expensive waste of garbage without talking about the consumer basket. These are all the data that should be the basis for further research on which social, demographic and economic policies should be based and which should benefit the ministries, institutes and us here. Today, such processing works only large cities: Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. Earlier, an independent Croatian union worked a consumer basket. The basketball used to be based on a four-member family, and now the average family is three-member. Food habits have also changed significantly. The level of publication of the results of the standard of living, receiving, education, living conditions are carried out on an annual basis and are published in September for the previous year which is not enough. The possibility of processing for the level of municipalities, cities, counties would be of great importance. Furthermore, agricultural and livestock data are also published at the level of the Republic of Croatia or the NUC2 region, and there is no clear picture of what is happening in the areas of the counties, cities and municipalities. We also have a problem collecting data from the population due to less response and poorer participation in the polls, thus losing valuable indicators. With growing dissatisfaction, the population is losing indicators that would be of great importance to us. Therefore, it is necessary to work on the enlightenment and better information of the population on the importance of participating in the provision of data for statistical purposes and, of course, the quality interpretation of results certainly changes the current perception of official statistics. No statistics, no analysis, no appropriate measures. Neither should we bring measures and solutions without systematic analysis. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, as I said, will support the 2015 Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities. However, we must also take this opportunity and tell the Government to do everything in order to record our Statistics Institute as positive as possible and not to be at the beginning of the tables as a bad example in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99626	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative, Melita Mulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99627	I would like to thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Out of respect for this document that is most common so far and consists, i.e. it contains 346 pages I want to say a few sentences because from, in fact, I agree with both colleagues of my previous speakers that statistics is very important. We've been working for years, unfortunately, and I've actually been talking about this issue for years, and I can actually see how we have a certain review. I would say that, as many of us as it seems, we are a country that has very serious access to this, because I will just remind you, so, apart from having the Official Statistics Act, we have a development strategy, we have a four-year implementation plan, and every year we bring a new plan that is more and more extensive and better every year. A colleague, Coleman, spoke about the differences between certain statistics. Yesterday, the Central Dnevnik, and I can mention it because it was public television that just brought news, so according to the State Statistics Office data, increased industrial production and thus increased exports. We have equally witnessed when it comes to organising one of the referendums in the past year, to ask how many voters there really are in the Republic of Croatia, so how different the register, the list of voters and data from the census that the National Statistics Institute has just spent. I argue and think it's been so for years, that it's absolutely independent of what sometimes we can't be satisfied with the dynamics of delivering certain data, but I think we can absolutely rely on the methodology used, on objectivity and reliability which is the basic data that the State Statistics Office is doing right now. And given that in some things they are really humanely still incompetent, they are constantly investing in their own development. What I would only single out when it comes to this year's activity plan is two basic things, so one is the improvement of birth statistics, which is very important. And the second is when I mentioned the growth of industrial production, in fact, it's monitoring GDP. So from now on, the State Statistics Office will also give us seasonal, adjusted GDP data except quarterly, quarterly data. All other macro-economic statistics, but also social and economic statistics, will remain at the same level as so far. And I think that we have our own adequate data for policy planning and work and employment and educational and demographic, development, energy each other's policies is just sometimes the question, so how do we use these data, how do we interpret them, analyze them, and how much we seduce the public at all. I only hope to have more quality discussions over the year about the interpretation of data by the State Statistics Office. The SDP club will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99628	I thank you, too. The proposer's representative has no need for a final address, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll stop working now. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., a joint debate on two draft electoral laws, and then point 7. on the Law on Election Units to elect MPs to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you all for your participation and good night! Session interrupted at 19.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-11-0.u99629	Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2015 The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that with 118 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities has been adopted.
