ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96598	Good morning distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue at the plenary session of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. Before I move to the agenda and agenda of today's session, a respected representative, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, appeared. We're listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96599	Thank you, Mr. President. Our club would ask for a break, a short break for the non-participation of the Republic of Croatia at the International EXPO Exhibition in Milan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96600	I didn't hear it, but if it's written, everything's fine, but I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96601	So our club is looking for a break for the non-participation of the Republic of Croatia as the only European Union country at the International EXPO Exhibition in Milan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96602	Okay, so EXPO, the topic is EXPO. And the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. ... Take it easy. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So respected representative Vesna Škare Ozbolt, Ivan Šuker, Branko Vukšić, Damir Kajin. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Same EXPO? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96603	No, no. About the work or rather the lack of the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96604	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96605	It's about the lack of the DORH. ... About the lack of a DORH or how do I say it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask myself if Mr. Cvitan is still alive, is he abducted, is he perhaps with 45000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have sought... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96606	My colleague Cain, slowly, slowly, must be filmed. You seem privileged, you know what he does, what he doesn't do, I don't know as president of the Croatian Parliament. ... You see, you can't see far from your own backyard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. You can't see far from your own backyard, that's what I said. No more hands. I'm taking a break. At 9.45 a.m., continue the session. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96608	Our club wants to point out the unreasonable abandonment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the world exhibition EXPO held in Milan this year from 1 May to 31 October with the theme "The Food of Planets, Energy, Life" with a fundamental question about whether sufficient, good, healthy and sustainable human diet can be provided. The exhibition participates in the whole world, is attended by 140 countries. Croatia has been given the opportunity to present its offer in gastronomy, nutrition, tourism and ecology at 250 square meters. It is estimated that in 6 months, about 20 million visitors will visit the exhibition. About 12 million tickets have already been sold, booked. So that's three times as much as Croatia has residents. The government has made 4 decisions over the past two years related to this exhibition, and at the end of last year, it estimated that the floods and the elementary disasters that hit Croatia will not be able to participate in the EXPO. I'll remind you that Croatia is '98. For years, so she had not left the war yet but participated in the first EXPO in Lisbon, she had strength, she was so exhausted from the war of funds and participated in the exhibition and her participation was extremely observed. I will also remind you that by respecting this tragedy that we had last year in some way came up and offered in one part of the participation costs of a million and 700 thousand euros. Of course, it was participatory for participation, and the creativity of the exhibitors themselves was left to every country. Although we should not doubt our creativity, but we certainly need to doubt our mind to give up such an exhibition, to give up such a worldwide promotion of our gastronomic and ethnological tradition, environmentalism, tourism and all that we could suggest. I will remind you that the Parliament, this Parliament, so two years ago, precisely two years ago, has brought a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia, in which gastronomy and enology were both the fundamental elements for which we will perform in the world. Therefore, out of 140 countries, of all EU countries, Croatia is not the only one participating in the EXPO. So, the destination that's our first neighborhood. Serbia, which experienced a worse flood than us and a worse elemental disaster, participates in the EXPO and has no problem with the funds, at least it does not show publicly. The question arises whether we are really so poor that we are not able to introduce ourselves in an adequate way in the world or we are so satisfied that we do not need such a thing at all, and then obviously we are not a country in crisis, we are not a country with hundreds of thousands of unemployed, with an economy that is practically at the bottom of the EU scale. The question arises as to what these decisions are made by the Government and at all what we want from our economy, our tourism, the environment in general, the branding of Croatia in the EU, in the world if we are not able to participate adequately in such a world-renowned exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96609	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It's the honorary representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96610	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So EXPO was supposed to cost 1.2 million euros or something over 9 million kuna. And then someone, for a reason, caused the floods in Slavonia, if it wasn't serious, it would be ridiculous. Unfortunately, this is tragic, tragic, because last year we passed a law on our noses in this House on the financing of flood damage in Slavonia. However, when you look at the implementation of the budget, then you will see that the implementation of the budget, the law that we have passed here, has nothing to do with each other. However, what is the theme of this EXPO in Italy? The diet of the planet, the energy of life. Did Croatia have any interest in promoting the Mediterranean as an area of healthy food? I'm sure she did. Could she have found this million and 200,000 euros, she could have found it without a problem. Look, failed advice from HAC monetization consultants 50 million kuna. The failed privatisation of HPB advisers 35 million kuna. Lawyers for some kind of conflict with MOL for now 15 million kuna. ATMs, travel orders, etc. That I'm not talking, about guessing my own companies that I'm not talking. All together when you add it up isn't even 5% of what it costs to the EXPO. However, when there is no idea what a promotion is, and at the same time some ridiculous slogan from the Croatian Tourist Board budget, which is somewhere around 650 million. Pay almost as much as the promotion you could have had in front of 20 million at the EXPO in the neighbouring country, which is practically with Germany the most interesting partner in tourism, then it becomes ridiculous. But there's something else. The strongest Croatian banks are practically their mother and owners are in Italy. Well, if you'd talked to them too, they'd be interested in funding it. If they had talked to anyone who was interested here, that nine million would have been there. Because this is the first time that Croatia has not participated in the EXPO since the EXPO exists. The EXPO was once more financially demanding, it was happening in countries and it was in both China and Japan and it never occurred to anyone to give up something that was a great promotion. However, this simply shows that there is no hearing and there is no point in making the right move. Because that's probably what someone thought it was some kind of relic of some past governments without knowing what it's all about. But I repeat, only HAC's failed monetization advisors are 50 million kunas. The HPB's advisors are 35 million and I'm not counting any further. And now someone's telling us about monetizing public debt. It is a completely new financial term and we will probably boast that Croatia has something special, something great and we will probably sell it as a relic of Croatian mind because the monetization of public debt you have to admit is something great, that no one in the world has ever done. But you know why? In order to make a public debt monetization, you will have to take back some advisers who will again collect several million kunas, will collect more than they will cost EXPO, and will bring far less money and benefits than Croatia would have from EXPO. And we could just call it that all the time. This EXPO is just one picture and an opportunity for this government to work and the images and the opportunity for this government to talk or negotiate with anyone. Because if she had done this interview with any interested economic operators, they would have financed it and made it far cheaper than to pay some kind of advertising on television, through some agencies that would get a discount. Because why would HRT get 100%, etc., etc. So, colleagues and colleagues, another beautiful black and white picture of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96611	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96612	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to pick up where my colleague Schuker stopped, and I agree that the government was interested even in a company from Peppermint that often the prime minister set up gave nine million kunas and it would be agreed by the boys in one night. If they'd asked Todorovic, who's hard to give money, for sure, to give money for one such thing. It's a lie that there's no money, that there's no 9 or 10 or 11 million kuna to go to one of the most important exhibitions. Remember how much money we spent and when we didn't know what to do on that EXPO. And we cared about introducing ourselves to the world. This time, when it comes to agriculture or gastronomy, and when it comes to tourism, two branches with which Croatia boasts, each time it waves that we will be something in tourism and that we will be in agriculture, and the other is in the production of healthy food. We have a million acres of raw land, we have a country where we can grow this healthy food that's not contaminated, and we don't know how to find 9 million kunas and how to go and introduce ourselves in a neighboring country. If several million tickets have already been sold, if 20 million people come to the EXPO it won't come people who will come to watch food and eat, there will be many business people, investors, people who know how to raise what we don't know how to raise. For what has been said long ago has fallen all that should not fall. There's chaos in agriculture. What happened, giving up on the EXPO is just proof that the government's baulia. They sat down 5.6 ministers on the bus in the last year and rode around Croatia with their wits about what should be done and what should be done. Look out, in the last year. This is a pre-election campaign at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those who are increasingly struggling to live. This is what the government has afforded the citizens of Croatia. And now, the saddest thing is, even with some voters, it'll work. And the fact that we don't know each other in the world, that being careful is something that the government used the flood to say we're not going to Italy because we have to give to people who are flooded. On the contrary, the flood was supposed to be an incentive to go there, to do something, to be left to the processing industry's feet. And what are our farmers doing? There are fewer, fewer agricultural holdings, and what they produce must be thrown into the pits because we simply don't know how to sell our own. This isn't just a defeat of the government, this is a defeat of all of us because we let the government, when it made that decision at the session, then we should have reacted. Maybe it's too late now. Even Italians are amazed why Croatia does not go to the EXPO so they would lower prices, and they would probably bring down perhaps even if we were really interested. There are 9 million kunas in Croatia. There is so much money in Croatia that children, older ones, students and students are not hungry. However, we are a country of absurdity and this abandonment of the EXPO is just another piece of evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u96613	Thank you very much. And now we're going to the fixed points of the agenda and the proposal for the material that you received, that's: - Proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z.BR.811. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, it's Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we have before us a draft consumer bankruptcy law. We're introducing, I have to admit that this is one of the legal texts that we're usually with as a ministry, you know we're always going to a wide public debate, usually going to two readings. This is one of the plans in which we went particularly carefully because in the Croatian legal system, not only the legal system, a new institute has been introduced into Croatian society that we have never known before because we have studied the experiences of many countries by working on this proposal, that is to say, and have seen how many and how much they have stepped down themselves. Most of the EU countries have been making significant changes in their laws these past few years, the ones they had, the ones that didn't have them. I'll tell you the illustrations that it was first laid down in 2007 that this law would be passed. We're in 2015 now, and we're bringing it in now. So for 8 years, this only tells you about the process that lasted in Croatia and how much was discussed, what was thought, etc. So at the level of the entire European Union, most countries deal with the problem of over-indebted population, on the other hand the inability to repay debts on the third hand, the need to collect creditors and try to find one balance between debtors and creditors. We were, like I said, going to a wide public debate. That's the first reason the law is in front of you today. The second reason is because we've been grooming some institutes in the meantime, you know that we've been going into the debt discharge system, that we've been going to certain changes to the executive laws. So that's all they were, let's say discharge of debts is one kind of filter to see how many people will come into this law. Besides, we should have secured the infrastructure. What we went through the reorganization of the courts you'll see is that it's just allowing this law to be implemented. Here we used the experience of FINA through pre-fashion settlements, also one thing that we could have built on. So a whole series of things that have led to the idea of what it looks like and that he's in front of you today. What are we trying to do with this law, or what do we expect from it? We expect the establishment of a balance between the debtors, between our citizens on the one hand, because although the governing principle, not only is our own, everyone's, that the debt must be paid back, we still need to take into account everything that has happened in Croatia. We need to consider and I won't say guilt but also the situation of the believer. Because if you allow the debtor at some point to be in charge of more than what his credit rating is, you're involved in his overindebted debt. You too, as a believer, must bear certain responsibility for this and participate in a possible loss both towards the citizen and a business entity. And that's one balance that we have to try to achieve. On the other hand, the term "due slavery" is often used in our speech. I may not be supposed to use it as a minister and I won't, but the fact is that a large part of it is a good part of the citizens being put into a situation that they don't have a perspective. The interest is big, they're growing, they're increasing. You at one point if you don't have the chance to pay back the debt, you don't actually have a perspective. So you must have a kind of new beginning. If we look at the religious side, the system that exists now generally only pleases the great believers and once most often. He who is the greatest, who takes everything first, the other believers get nothing. So that's where we have to build a system that will actually enable on the religious side a flat check of what it has, what it doesn't have to charge. So that's the balance we tried to give through this. Next, some kind of system that we're setting up has certain filters and it's designed to primarily go towards the agreement. If there's no deal, then there's a coercion procedure. What does the agreement mean? The first step is to consult what we predicted was to work for FINA. Why Finna? It has a learning frame, it has a network that covers the whole country and can be put into operation very quickly, work on certain instructions. And the third one can have insight into certain registers that matter to us for this. What's her job? Or maybe before I say who's qualified for this at all. So when we talk about the consumer, they are primarily citizens of individuals. However, we have expanded the circle a little, and we have said that free professions can also enter it, so craftsmen under certain conditions. It means that the debt is not greater than 100 thousand kuna, that there are no more than 20 creditors, etc. Because otherwise they go according to the rules of the law of bankruptcy. But here and because of some other things I'm going to tell you later, we've also opened up the possibility of independent activities, free professions. On the one hand. On the other hand, who's qualified? One who can't serve his obligations. I say it simply means more permanent incompetence to meet the financial obligations achieved. There is also a presummation of insolvency that is that these obligations are more than 30 thousand kunas and are not serviced for 90 days. It's a presumption. This first is a condition, this second is a presummation. So you can go anyway. So, that first step, outside the court, an attempt outside the court settlement, so an attempt to get through the counseling facility has several functions. First, in some ways financially, not financially, but raising awareness of citizens because it is the first place where I can get all the information about what will happen to them if they enter this process. There's one note here, so we didn't go to a system like some other countries where the believer could also drive the debtor into bankruptcy. We only left it to the debtors. So citizens choose whether to go for this or not. It is a mechanism available to citizens, not believers. Believers can suggest but if they do not have the express consent of the debtors there is no bankruptcy. So there's no procedure. So we've installed it precisely because of the situation we're in. Therefore, consultations are regional centres and branches of FINA, local authorities are according to the residence of debtors. The task first means when the debtor comes to know him with all his rights and obligations. The second is to help him fill out the forms and whatever is required if he decides to go through with the procedure. It's a very important thing because from the beginning we want to have a process that is focused and where the data has been collected from the beginning uniformly, meaning by the same system. And here's a depression, but one of the problems that we have in the bankruptcy process, so it's not there but we've been applying this experience is that we don't have a structured procedure to the end and we don't have unique patterns. So our bankruptcy would be much faster and simpler, and now we're introducing it according to the bankruptcy law that the first reading has already passed, that you have data that must be attached from the beginning. Once again, the absurd is that if an entrepreneur participates in a public competition, he will fill out this book of all data, if he opens up bankruptcy, then it's enough to write a proposal for bankruptcy and sign it, and then we put it to the court to collect all that data, etc., which is simply not the job of the court and to lose energy on something to be lost, so here we introduce it to FINA. Next, FINA is able to pair up and see what's really going on. The debtor must give a list of creditors, FINA will invite them, contact them and try to reach a payment plan or agreement. Of course, if the procedure here ends in the first degree, we're all happy and we've actually gotten rid of ourselves, there's a deal that has the effect of extrajudicial, which is actually something that's going to be implemented, it has to be implemented and there's no deviation. If that doesn't work, and we put this procedure as a prerequisite for phase two, it's a court case, so you can't go directly to court. Let's say the colleagues in Slovenia who only had court proceedings had the most problems with it, did not have this filter and preparation before and therefore had very big problems. You can go to court, again debtor or believer with his consent and initiate a classic bankruptcy procedure. The first stage is once again an attempt at a peaceful solution, and if that fails, then the court decides in a similar procedure as bankruptcy. With this here, if the believers, one of the believers doesn't want to participate, then the court can replace his refusal with its decision. So it's the risk of a believer, but here we won't let some of the believers block the whole process because of their narrow interests. That can't happen. There's a commissioner whose job is to take care of the property, I'm pulling the parallel with the bankruptcy manager again. It's always the court's decision. How's that going? Let's say three scenarios. One is when we have property and in that case that property is listed, an estimate. On the one hand, you can see how much debt there is, and on the other hand you can see how much property there is. The assets other than that of the existential sale and the payment of debts are determined for a period of 1 to 5 years, we have shorter periods than some other countries that go up to 7 years in Europe, where the period of verification, trials, however you will, means the debtor will be supervised. In short, part of their incomes will have to be set aside for payment of debts, and part of it remains for life. What's that part that's left for him to live for is the court's decision. In one of the previous versions, we had the idea that it would be prescribed correctly, but then when you look here, all of us standing here sitting there having different situations. Someone's supporting more kids, someone less, some kids are going to college, someone's not, someone's helping their parents, someone's not. That's what we wanted to give the court the opportunity to adapt it to the individual situation. So then you're a debtor in the situation that part of your income will pay off your debts, part of it stays with you. The part that remains for you will be modest, I must say immediately but that is the logic of the procedure. No one can expect to live luxuriously and then get a write-off. Why? Because after a period of between 1 and 5 years, you're doing the leveling again and after you've paid off, what you haven't written off on the condition that you've stuck to the obligation. And that's where you, as a citizen, start from scratch, start from scratch. You're in a situation where if you were, you'd run out of property, but without it, you'd still be in the executive process. You were in a situation where you paid as much as you could, then you're in a situation where you don't have any more debts. Believers have charged themselves evenly, not as is the case now that only the biggest or the first one to go and they have charged as much as there was. If you're a citizen who doesn't have any property, then the bankruptcy will open and close. If you have a working ability, it's one option, you'll have a duty to work and return some of that 1 to 5 years, then draw again and write off what you haven't returned. You're starting again. And if you don't have the job skills, then you'll get it all written down. So that's something I repeat to the citizen who decides on that option gives him the opportunity to go through a difficult period, but that after that he no longer has debts. Believers, they know that they will charge the part that is so realistic and that is possible and after that the story ends because it was their risk. They were letting someone get into trouble because they hadn't actually checked their credit skills since the beginning, etc. And they shall have no share of their claim, but that is where We draw the line. So they're giving each other something. The debtor gives the maximum he can repay, the believer receives the maximum and loses the second part. So that's where the line is drawn. Two questions here are important to address. Real estate. We are now, constantly talking about real estate, the only, life, existential, etc. There is a possibility that the debtor is required by law to claim that the property that is the only one, if it lives in it and if it does not cross certain parameters, means it does not refer to a villa of 3,000 square meters but such a villa will be sold so that it will be left with money for an apartment of 60, depending on how many people there are, etc., that it requires that it is not sold until the end of this period of one to five years. After that, if he is in a position to pay off most of the debts, that he is in a situation that he can continue to return the part then there is and we foresee the possibility of a deal with the lender that this property is never sold, but simply enters through it is a kind of reprogramme and it is further being paid off. If it isn't sold, as it will be sold today will only be sold immediately. When it comes to craftsmen and self - interest, then we give them the opportunity to seek and get the opportunity to leave them with the means to live. So that they can continue to carry out their activities, pay back part of their debts, part of it remains with them. After that, the line is drawn again and you can see how much is returned, how much is not and how much is the value of these funds. So that means we don't force people who live off their own work in some way as craftsmen, that they have to run out of anything right away. They have a chance through repeat one to five years to service part of the debt, part of it remains to them. After that, you can see what will be done and how the rest will be done. I'm not going now because you have a bill of law going into detail, there will certainly be plenty of questions and possibilities to explain. But maybe just a few notes. This is one of the laws that would be ideal if it wasn't passed in times of crisis as always, because whenever you're in a situation like this, we're going to have a potentially big rush at the beginning. We're going to have to lift the system and dimension it for a very large number of potential debtors to fall over the years. It's the experience of other countries. But at some point you have to go with it. Secondly, this is not a magic debt wiper, and no one should experience it that way and not have expectations of this. This is a balanced proposal, but it ultimately means a hard life for the debtor over a certain period of time. Of course after that time he no longer has debts. The believer he charged was charged, but it's not a simple or easy procedure. In all the countries we have seen expectations were very high at the beginning, in practice a relatively small number of citizens go through it. We need to be aware of that. So we don't give here the following: a long-term solution to this law. In fact, the situation in which we are, it's not this law, it's an increase in employment, it's a simple opportunity for people to work harder and earn more and pay back their debts. Because if you're going to have a citizen going through this, then he's going to get into a situation where he can't pay back his debts again, they're in the same problem. So it's, it's not a Croatian experience, it's the experience of the countries that went through it. We here didn't want to go as some countries to set a minimum that had to be returned. Let's say you have some countries that say you always have to pay 25% of the debts. Yeah, but what you're going to do with citizens who don't have their job skills, they don't have any property. That means they can't qualify for this at all. But there's no real way they're gonna pay, so why put 25% on them? This, for example, led to the collapse of some countries or the use of this institute at all. We've introduced this counseling facility here. Why? On the one hand as a filter, on the one hand that it allows for a later procedure. So we tried to achieve the greatest balance between the two, those two interests and those two are not opposed. But on the one hand, to allow people a new beginning that they have fallen into their own, so sometimes by their guilt in some way, sometimes objective circumstances, loss of work, disease, etc. in a situation where I can't pay back my debts on one side. On the other hand, to allow the believers to gain something, but without the rest, they will remain. Why? Because they were, if we say the debtor was careless because he took it, he was the believer who gave it to him. And we finally have to go to the balance in society. So I'm saying the proposal is, first is reading, I'm just going to tell you the public debate on our website is since June last year. We've held more round tables, we've talked a lot about this. We don't like it when you go with something like this, you're not comfortable and you're just going to a whole new place. We're interested in getting as many ideas and suggestions as possible that some things if you think we should correct them we're absolutely open to it. So, the next prerequisite for the success of this law is education. On the one hand, consumer education is right through this counselling area. I've also talked to some NGOs, and they should make their contribution, simply to show people what it means. On the other hand, education of Commissioners and Judges. Here's a note. The idea was that this was going to commercial courts. Commercial courts we have little and that would actually be unreachable for citizens because these are citizens who have no money and now you make them have to travel very far to commercial courts there's no point. That's why we decided on municipal courts. You know we've reorganized them now since 1.4. They'll be bigger, they'll be able to simply dedicate people to doing this. On the other hand, trade courts have the largest backlogs, etc. They'll have an inflow through bankruptcy, and they wouldn't even be able to deal with large numbers. So, education of the population, education of the participants, and that's it. We have to work on the implementation. I'm texting. I'm, we've been showing it all over, and from the Commission, etc., everyone seems good, with someone, always someone has an idea. But this is one of the things where, like everywhere, but here in particular, implementation depends on everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105034	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Eight replicas have been reported for your exposure, so we'll do it in a row. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105035	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully to your opening statement and looked at the explanation of this bill and the answer to one question. You started talking about it so you stopped. How many existing debtors could potentially have been covered by this law? In fact, of the 322 thousand blocked, I think that those candidates for the use of procedures prescribed by this law are simply the basis of the data that you have given in the text impossible to calculate because you have set groups of debtors from 2 to 10, 10 to 25 and 25 to 50 and the definition of the law says that the consumer is insolvent if in 90 days you cannot repay debts of more than 30 thousand kuna. So do you have the information or the assessment? It's important to know what potential this law applies to. Secondly, do you have any information on the reasons for entering debt slavery or blockade? For example, out of these 31 billion debts and 322 thousand blocked how much they went into debt slavery for losing their jobs? So I concentrate maximum on these debtors who are in debt to banks and financial institutions, that's over 65% of the total debt to them, those who owe card businesses, teleopers, lying, insurance I don't believe it's a result of losing a job. These answers are extremely important to see where this measure could possibly be useful because of the cause. And in the end, will you finally intervene temporarily as Government towards those debtors in a protective sense where they are questioned and questioned the legality of the business of creditors in Croatia such as Raiffeisen savings that continue to carry out performances and actions in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105036	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105037	Thank you very much. So the first question, when you look formally if we only consider the citizens who are blocked there would be about 120 grand. But I can't tell you if it's a real picture because the fact is that part of the citizens who are blocked operate past it and have real estate etc. as well as the fact that part of the citizens really has nothing and not even an account so it's not blocked. So it's impossible, so if we're just looking at that parameter yes, it's 120,000 is kind of a maximum. But I repeat that part of the citizens who are blocked will not go to this option very likely because they have some real estate etc., live not another way, and part of it is people who don't even have an account that might use this option. So they're not formally or blocked, you know? So that's very difficult. As for the question of losing a job and the correlation means with the inability to return that information we don't have, we think you'll have it until the second reading on one sample but it won't be able to get away because it's not being run like that. The FINA that has the data on the blocked she has no employment data. So we tried to pair it up, we haven't done it yet, I think we'll be able to make a sample that would have been examined but that we'll have it by the end, we won't. So, at this point, we don't have it. What you've said, you've already asked that question and we've talked about it when it was executive, in part and on your initiative, I think how much we've talked about we've left that possibility of enforcement if a criminal or other procedure is launched. And that's the only thing that can bring such debtors a delay because you can't do otherwise. Every item is individual, you can't go in general. So the debtor who is in it thinks that because of someone's illegal business has come into a situation to return something that doesn't need to be pulled out of the process and the execution stops.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105038	Thank you very much, Minister. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in order for one law to even create a precondition to be able to function, then it is necessary to create sound foundations. However, you, unfortunately in your argument on page 6 of the insurance policy, have violated both the Budget Law and the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Look what you've written, the necessary means will be provided by means of a re-purpose within the approved limit. You don't have an approved limit, you have a adopted budget and another thing if you have extra funds in that position then you have deceived this Parliament and government. And if you think you're going to secure those funds then you have to say what you're not going to do. Because that's just how the budget works. The second thing is, it would be good if you were talking about craftsmanship and free occupations to comply with this law in accordance with Article 36. The law of craftsmanship. Why? Because he clearly defines to you what, how, and when he can prey at the turn. This Regulation shall enter The law on trade is unfortunately not in line with this law. And the law of crafts is a lex specialis law regarding crafts. The second thing, this law definitely confirms that this government gave up on the functioning of the OIB so that the OIB should function, and that is the Central Register of the Tax Administration, and that was the basic intention when the OIB Act was passed because then a bunch of these provisions that you put here shouldn't be at all. Why? Because it could be withdrawn from the Central Register and, among other things, that you said in response to the replica now that you do not have any information on salary and employment at the same time, that there is a Central Register, which is in the original OIB Act so that we can withdraw it from that Central Register. But I'm saying, this government is definitely not sure why she gave up the OIB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105040	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105041	Thank you very much. So we predicted that some extra price of this would be up to about 10.5 million kuna, it's in the PFU form. What you said for an explanation I'll look at, if it's okay I thank you and we'll correct, so no problem. What's it gonna be? FINA will do its regular work, courts will do their regular work. What we see as a direct expenditure on the budget is co-financing in some way fees and costs for citizens who do not have money for it. And that's what we've calculated how much that would be. So, but I accept if we've made some kind of formal rationale that we'll correct. What you said in line with the Law of Rotation, that's two things. As a rule, the craftsman goes bankrupt, not into the bankruptcy of the consumer. So what you can or can't do, this is a voluntary procedure. You're talking about a business where you don't have a word. That's what I'm talking about. So here the craftsman takes into account what he chooses which is his more favourable system. So they don't have to be as harmonised as a man can stay in real estate for 5 years, under other laws they can't. So that's right, this law is different. This ending with the OIB, I wouldn't be opening up here right now and we don't even have time to get into all those registers that we didn't find, which we were told were working on, and they really don't work, you could get a lot of them listed, and it doesn't make sense. So now we're doing the most we can from what we have, and you know, you've been involved in some of these registers, you know how difficult it was to create them, and neither of us have stopped, we've all just improved. So, yes, but that's where opinions can always differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105042	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105043	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, namely 322 498 thousand citizens, 31 billion kuna is at stake, but what worries me is that you make it easy to say debt slavery, you say for 8 years it has been waiting for this legal solution, but in most cases the debtors and the creditors are not to blame. It's not their fault if their pay cut, it wasn't their fault that the prices were up, it wasn't their fault that the course was up, it wasn't the loss of a job, it was the thing that had just been squeezed by the believers to start talking to the debtors and start solving the problem. Unfortunately, we've waited too long and I'm afraid the good part of the people we're going to try to help right now is not going to help them because it's been waiting too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105044	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I agree with you, this law should have been passed much earlier. But now I think it's a little late. When you have over 300 thousand people who are threatened by personal bankruptcy, then the question is, can this law somehow help them? He's agreed we'll necessarily need it. However, the only real remedy to start an economy, create jobs and then solve these cases as personal bankruptcy because they will be able to pay back as much money as possible. However, I would ask a few questions here. This law looks much better when you suggest it this way than when it's read and when you only read it, you open up all kinds of life situations. One of the life situations is that you're talking about selling real estate, and it's gonna have to be sold to who? The real estate market is dead and the question is when it's going to work. So it takes you five years to figure out what time it is for this procedure which after that, what after that? If this personal bankruptcy ends, do these properties that can't be sold remain, what happens to the man who started his personal bankruptcy after five years? That's an important question. If real estate isn't sold, if it doesn't get a job, if it can't settle 90% of those claims, what happens to it? I'll just remind you it's one law, one thing we're talking about, and life is something else entirely. Today people transfer or falsely burden you, or fictitiously burden you, I won't say falsely but fictitiously burden you with real estate, today people are being printed out of your place of residence, you can't get them anywhere, their accounts are blocked, those remaining accounts are closing, they just faded off to say so in the jargon of life. What about them?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105046	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105047	Thank you very much. After a period of one to five years if the property has not been sold, what I said means you can see how much debt is left, if there is left, a man may find a very good job and return it all, maybe he didn't return anything because he didn't find a job, in which case and there's the possibility of a deal with the believer to continue some kind of meal pay or so. As will happen today, but it will happen immediately in the executive procedure. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The bankruptcy is over, but you've entered in, so if I owe you five years later, I'm out of 200 thousand kuna, for which the mortgage on my apartment is back 150 grand, then it's very logical that you and I, especially because of that bad real estate market, will agree that I, but the bankruptcy is over, it's now our new deal to pay you back these 50 grand and stay there. Because with the sale, you and I will lose. And you've got, I've got 5 years to give you back these 150, if I returned 10 then very likely it will, but I repeat what I said, if you think there's a better solution, we'll listen to it first and talk about its application. So here we have a situation we introduce a new institute, we can criticise it is great, but I would also plead at anything to make an counterproposal or say we won't go with it and that's possible, but we all agree that we should go. This is what we stand behind and that the best thing we can do right now and what's real is that we can spend if there's something concrete, here's a suggestion that after 5 years. I don't see any other solution, except you've got five years, we're setting up a situation as it is and we're seeing what we're going to do next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105048	Thank you very much. Therefore, business opportunities allow all applications which are not satisfied with the replica and the reply to the replica to be used without being discussed from the bench are not possible. As the proposing representative may always ask for a discussion on behalf of the applicant for 5 minutes, and we can, in the end, have a structured discussion on the proposal. And now the new replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105049	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you rightly mentioned debt slavery, who can feel that way, of course, those who, no matter how much they owe, don't see the perspective and don't see the way out, spin around, have no solutions, so these are the situations we witness unfortunately every day. And the fact that the data you're presenting is actually more than worrying. It means that in 2 years from 2012, when it was more than 17 billion, that debt increased to more than 31 billion kuna. So that's something that's more than worrying. So I ask you, looking at the structure of those who are blocked, or who owe, so 139 thousand 301 citizens are blocked because they owe up to 10 or 10 thousand kuna, up to 10 or 10. In that structure there are 89 thousand 287 according to this data which are in the very proposal of the law from 2000 to 10,000 kuna. So I'm interested in why this 30 thousand-thousand-and-thirty-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-and-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thy-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thy-thy-thousand-thousand-thy-thousand-th-thy-thous-thousthousth-th-th-th-th-thousthousth-thousthousth-thousthous-thousthousand-th-thy-thy-thy-thous-thous-thy-thous-th-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-th-th-thy-thy-thy-thy-th-th-th-th-thy-thy-th-th-thy-thy-thy-thy-th-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-th-th-thy-thy-thy-thy-thy-th-th-th-th-thy-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thy-th-th-thy-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thy-th-th-th-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-th-th-the-the-the-the-thin-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the- So someone who owes me talk about 2,000 kunas that seems from this constituency perspective of ours not so much money and that it's in debt slavery and that it doesn't see the exits it's actually terrible. So why 30 and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105050	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105051	Thank you very much. So that's not a 30 grand limit. So that's what every citizen who can't, who can't meet his obligations for a long time is qualified to do. This was put as a presummation. So if you've got 30 grand and 90 days, you're going with automation. You don't actually have to prove it, so there can be a citizen of 10,000 or 2. I'm just saying, this is a presumption, but it's not an absolute limit. Another way I can, we must also be aware that if we go 200 or 300 thousand citizens into this system he will not function on one side. On the other hand, it will be a terrible budgetary burden. Because every citizen of 2000 kuna, you count on this procedure to cost a few thousand kunas he doesn't have and we'll pay the taxpayers. So there's one solidarity of society that we're going to show through this, but there's also a need to take into account citizens who are serving their debts and who are going to have to take part here but we can't overload them to participate more than some measure because there's no free. You know, that procedure costs money. It's going to cost two thousand kunas in total, sure. So if you have 200 grand of citizens, I might be stroking, but that's 400 to 600 million kuna. And someone who's 2,000 probably doesn't have 3,000 to pay. So that's something we also have to consider. Because these 600 million kunas will pay people who otherwise serve their debts. So that's where we have to find the balance, and that's why we put this presumption something higher. But of course she doesn't rule out anyone who's way below that. But you will always be asked whether you will conduct a procedure that is worth so much, that will cost you something that is relatively much less. That's why, but it doesn't limit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105052	Thank you very much, Minister. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105053	Dear Minister Milenić, I'm about to start from this, your last sentences in response, everything seems to me, although the idea of this law is systematically implemented, in fact, to protect the person and their family. However, you said in the opening statement that many countries have tried to do so but have given up because it is not feasible. I now say from this place it will not be feasible in Croatia. Except now that you've said how much it'll cost millions, hundreds of millions of kunas we're creating a new caste. The executions are cancer wounds in Croatia. A citizen who has a 300-dollar debt grows 1800 kuna. Now, now be a minister, rise from your barrister's habitat, the law offices have been spending so much money on a legal robbery here in the Parliament, and what happened? One caste has become enormously rich and the citizens are enormously impoverished. Others are bankruptcy managers, third are notable offices, we put everything on the back of the citizens. And now we're putting it on, you said it would be taxpayers. The system will fail as well as the tasks to which we will propose amendments to the law. How can you explain to me something that's 300 kuna long to rise to 1800 kuna because the lawyer's office put it on? And then you deal with the law firm, then he lets you go 300 or 400 kuna. Well, that's something scary. This all leads to it, I don't doubt your intentions. Every law is here and we MPs are idealists and we say now it's going to work, it's not going to work. We need to understand our mentality and we need to understand our practice. Do you, be careful that's a million-and-a-half people. 323 thousand, 322 thousand blocked. It means so many families, because no one's blocked because they're allowed to, there's a mechanic who mixes with it, but that's one-third that lives in poverty, one-third of the citizens. This is a terrible question that this law will not answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105054	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105055	What you said, I expect, unlike you, that he will be carried out and that he will deliver the results. I repeat, he is not the magic wand that will release the debts and he will not solve the social problem that you are talking about. He will give citizens the opportunity to choose whether they want to enter this programme and go through a certain period and get rid of debts and start over. So that's the choice of debtors. We don't force anyone into this. We say, I'm in debt, I can choose whether I want to go into this or not. And that's what this law is. He means the debtor can't be forced into bankruptcy. Of course, if it's the numbers you're talking about, and I'm aware that we as a system can't swallow it, think it is, but better than this solution we haven't found. Such laws also have countries that are far richer than us because both in Switzerland or in Austria, it happens that people simply cannot service their debts and that they have to go after this option. It's hard to decide, it's not easy for anyone, they're all aware it's actually the ultimate measure but it's useful. So it's not, I repeat, it's kind of a law that applies and in, conditionally speaking, poorer and richer countries, somewhere more, somewhere less. What you said with the industry, make a suggestion. You know that we as a ministry have done a lot to reduce these costs and I will agree first with you that especially when we put the system of FINA and the charges, it is unacceptable that they are so high. You know that we had restrictions there, we put some in the law, some through tariffs were put in. If you think there's more room we're here to talk about because we really are no matter what you said that I did before, I was the first one to tie that costs. Do you have enough, let's see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105056	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105057	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. By your profile, you're a nice minister to me from what you're doing, how you're doing, you're trying to model that system, in something, and you're doing it, but at least you know you want something. But you know why I like you, because you don't pay hundreds of millions of kuna for someone else's mind and it comes from imports to tell you what you're going to do. These other ministers here are 200 million, tell me if I need to privatise the highways. Well, then what's the minister's station? It's not a competition for that duty. There are others who would know that by themselves. It's like an introduction to you. But then you said there'd be a lot of questions, so I'm joining those questions. In this country where there's been a lot of attempts let's solve the indifference, we've introduced pre-banking deals-individence councils. Let's forgive some communals to unblock the blocked ones. It's blocked every day more. The fate of this law that I am for, here I raise my hand in advance, it is necessary and necessary but out of it a little bit. But my question to you, Mr. Minister, is whether you are preparing for a bankruptcy procedure for the Republic of Croatia because, according to all the parameters listed as going into debt slavery as an individual, the Croatian state is going into debt slavery according to all these indicators and we must prepare whether you have an answer to me and whether you have a plan to perform at the moment when Croatia goes bankrupt, and that is very soon. Because the way this government runs the bankruptcy is close, necessary, at the door.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105058	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105059	Thank you very much. So as for the use of consultants in lawmaking, of course they are very often desirable. Since you're the same to me, I'll pay you back a compliment, I'll now talk about using consultants to write us a party program that's also being paid, but let's put it on the side of what consultants are doing, what they should do. The state won't go bankrupt, and that's why we don't need to write to the law, but I'll agree with you that we all need to work on awareness of what this is wearing, what it isn't wearing, that we need to give people one perspective and that we should all work better together, that only greater employment ultimately will help as few people get into this process. There'll always be people who need him, whatever's going on. But you know it only means through that one twist we can get that number down and actually make it as small as possible. But if we did, we always will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105060	Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105061	Thank you very much, President. Minister, if we all lived together sometimes, but the state too, living on that people's "climate with what you're dealing with" there wouldn't be any problems like this. You said it wasn't popular in a crisis to pass laws like this and it wasn't. You'll get fired anyway. I support this law, and what I particularly advocate, we can't separate this from the issue of the executive law. We should certainly do it because of people who are in this situation so that real estate cannot be executed only in property and where people live. We would thus prohibit someone from promoting their political career on the back of Croatia's difficult life fates, and that is something that the ministry and state should react to. We need to settle the law as quickly as possible. So what you're suggesting, imagine how blocked it would be if those great jurisprudences, and in two loans themselves, guarantees don't pay loans to people who've come to a crisis for losing their jobs, so let's just keep our mouths shut. It'd be a lot more. I'm afraid of these possible divisions in society because we'll probably help someone with this, I'm sure of it, but the consumer debt structure is not the same. It's not the same guy from the loan that got killed or the one who's unreasonablely wasted. So let's face it, there were situations like this eight years ago and there will be, there's both lawyers and notebooks before and there will be. We don't need to shoe anyone, but we need to sort out the state and society, get rid of the economic crisis, it's waiting for us to fight all of us together, but here we're going to step up control, help people, prevent possible divisions in society, and especially I'm pushing for us to react to the executive law before this. We're going to prevent someone from telling you that it's an election year now, so let's go... populism, and we're going to stop someone on innocent people who really are neither guilty nor obliged to come into this situation, some kind of political career that you're doing, like you're helping someone, and in some words you can't do anything but do things. Parts need helping people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105062	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105063	Thank you very much. So it is true that the Executive Law has a very important link to this legal text that is before you. It is likely to be held in the assembly during April, at the latest in early May of a certain change, then you can also put the proposal in place. I'm going to tell you right now that I'm not prone to it, I'm not prone to any such moratorium, no matter what pre-election campaigns or what, how it uses. We have already installed a one-year moratorium on the solutions that are being made. Perhaps they should be extended to those older solutions, meaning the possibility of staying in the real estate. But we can take a step back and ask ourselves, here you said you got an apartment, bought an apartment on loan. Would they have got it if the bank had been in effect and the bank hadn't calculated it with the possibility of selling it. No, you wouldn't. You'd be a tenant now, too. Let's talk some more. We're gonna protect someone who took the loan and you and me. I took the loan. Now we will, the state will say I can't, I can't get it back, we can't get out, you're a tenant, you can get kicked out. So what I'm trying to tell you is how hard it is to do one procedure in general and address what you've said every single situation and be as fair as possible, because they differ in life. Here, the success of this law will depend on us to prevent abuse. Of course, we can now say the trial period. And you and I both know what's going to be one of the problems, working potentially on the black that we have to stop with other measures, so that someone doesn't work on the black so they don't pay off their debts and there's no formal job. So that's it. But we go with good faith to the citizens, help anyone who acts in good faith, and predicts mechanisms for those who try to cheat to lose any benefits. It's one of the things for success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105064	Thank you, Minister. The last replica, the respected representative Josip Boric. For this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105065	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, I don't know what this situation is like for you in which we witness daily, but on one side we have the splendor of Croatian politics, i.e. Government-led policies. We testify to her daily. The prime minister says ministers travel to Croatia, speak excellent politics that has no alternative. And then every week we have decisions, laws that need to sort out or undo the effects of such a brilliant policy. One of those laws is obvious, too. Do we agree on that? We'll see in your answer. It doesn't seem logical to me, because if it's a good policy, we with these laws shouldn't have any problems at all. However, you say FINA will be in the process. Obviously, FINA becomes a card for all these governments, executions, blockades, bankruptcys, pre-banking deals, write-offs, etc. You also prescribed that FINA will participate in real estate activities in place of courts since 1.1.2015. However, according to FINA, I read no request yesterday in three and a half months did not arrive at FINA on the property of those debtors. What's this about? Whether the local judges are still in contact with those who are the only and only allowed to buy these properties by very suspicious values that reach a third or a fifth of the value of these properties. Why is that happening? It's going to happen here, obviously. So what's Finna doing? 5500 properties in 5 years went to work. That's almost three to four a day. A year ago, you were protested by users from RBA cooperatives and savings banks a year ago. What did you do for them? They were accepted by the deputy, you told them you could do it and you could say goodbye. Well, here's what we've been talking about for a few months. Why does the state not have the power to make a moratorium for a year to finally determine what Croatian institutions can determine on whether these loans are legal or illegal, because they will also lose real estate under this law, and maybe they participated in a business where there are non-authorised shops Why don't you help them and what will you do for them, Minister? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105066	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105067	Thank you very much. That's enough questions. I don't know how long I'm gonna make it, so I'm gonna go fast. So this law has Austria. Don't tell me she's in big trouble. So they have all the European countries except three or four. So this has nothing to do with what I've told you with what's in society social etc. We put it as an explanation and we took some of those elements into law because we have a different situation than others. But he can't compete with this. I'm not going to go into that now to describe what the government has done, which are all good things, is not the subject here. Let's move on. RBA. We talked about it, and I told you we are here, and on the initiative of some parliamentary deputies, we have put aside any such action, and it is up to the debtor to seek and give leave in court. And the execution won't take place until some other procedure, primarily criminal. So it exists and the courts have this legal obligation. But I'm not a judge that I can tell you more than that you can. Well, you voted it, you did, you understand. And that's what the law says. So that's it. This law is a debtor's opportunity and let's not tell people that he's pushing them into something. You, anyone who doesn't want to go means a consumer's bankruptcy, will not go into personal bankruptcy and will remain in the regime that is now. So we're not doing the law that forced you to, which someone will force you to do, you're in bankruptcy now. No, that's exactly what we've made a distinction from other systems. So the citizen will choose. If he won't go into it, he won't, his will. So there's no coercion. General moratorium because of different situations, look. Let's go, we can talk about it, I said when there's gonna be some other changes, there's a table, we can talk, but I'm not for a general moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105068	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, wish to present their reports regarding this law? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Now it is the club of Independent Leftists and the esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105069	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with the deputy, with her associate, colleagues and colleagues. We can discuss whether it should have happened sooner or not. This law of the Republic of Croatia needs and that is what we must realize that it is good that as late as it is before us. When we talk about why we need it then let's first evaluate the situation in the Republic of Croatia to understand its importance. So the number of 322 thousand citizens in the blockade or 7% of the total population, and when you move it to the number of households, which is far more important because citizens are in the household, then almost 22% of households are in the blockade. And there's something else important for the Republic of Croatia. Unlike Europe, Croatian citizens want to have property over real estate which is not common outside, so the 33 billion kuna figures are due to Croatia's specificity. A huge number of citizens do not understand their economic strength and want to buy real estate and get into troublesome things. And one more thing, we're working on the mortgage system. What does a mortgage mean? Are we forgetting that they are already 40% below the price of real estate? And when the sale of all these properties begins, the price of real estate will still fall. The mortgage is on the property but you owe the nominal amount of interest loans. Which means this property we're gonna sell won't cover the debt. And that's why when we talk about slavery financially we have to understand it because we've invested at the worst time overrated the value of real estate by, say, development in the Republic of Croatia, insane investment in real estate, and we're in charge of enormous amounts, today this property is worth half the amount, and we're not able to pay off our debts by even paying back that property. What about how to resolve these dubiosiss that are now due to the lower value of the burden of any user who is unable to repay the loan? It is the specificity of Croatia, it is indeed our specificity. And that's why we have to look at it. And there's another specificity, of those 322 thousand if you look at the figures you'll see that we have 250 thousand citizens with a blockage of over a year. So long-term blockades are the specificity of Croatian citizens. All this indicates that we really don't have anything to wait for. We have to give these citizens a chance. Therefore, this law is not an obligation, this law is the possibility that indeed citizens who have lost value, who now have loans that are far more valuable and are harder to repay because the value of their property does not cover that we give them the opportunity to simply and through personal bankruptcy try to get rid of it. Because after five years, he's no longer in debt. And that is why I believe that it is the specificity of Croatia that points out that it is really necessary to pass such a law. Because when we look at Europe, you have it back in Denmark in '84, and you will apologize to Denmark is one of the richest when we talk about citizens, England, France, Finland, Norway. So all the countries that are our concept, and they are in northern Europe, have long introduced these systems because they care about citizens. We give citizens a chance. And that is why I think it is very important to look at the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether it is economic policy or not, but we need to give the citizen the opportunity to decide what to do with his impossible debts. What I don't like is the title of the law, and I'd like to try again before the second reading, see if we can change the title a little bit. The consumer means as a citizen, we're a consumer society, and now we're saving someone who's uneconomically behaved. However much, when we talk about the relationship between the customer and the seller, the consumer has its own protection, and it is now a question of whether we really go to personal bankruptcy, so throw the consumer into the brackets because it means we care about the citizens, not about those irresponsible consumers, because let's be honest, I don't think it's the right thing to do when we look at the mentalities and events in Croatia. Because whoever invested in the house so he's in charge, he's still an investor, he invested, he didn't spend. I don't know what. Therefore, just another suggestion if we want to make it clear to the citizens that we are taking care of them personally that we do not consider them to have made a mistake through this excessive consumption rather than simply thinking that we should help. So it might be convenient to change. It was the same here as the 30 grand debate, not the 30 grand. So I'm going to say that we just now have government agreements and individual service providers that up to 30,000 can write off their claims or forgive their debts, the way they do. So we gave the opportunity to those who have 2 to 10 grand, which is the 139 grand, so they have another model. The question remains, if we see how this model will succeed, should we also rule it out? So let's not burden a new system with a huge number because it could really be a matter of efficiency. Next, do we have institutions? Because it's important, I can see that it's doubtful if we'll be able to spend it. Well it is evident that FINA is one of the stronger state agencies that is staffed well, which is well teamed and accounting equipment, well located in Croatia which, when we look at geographically, is really hard to cover but it also means from organization and technical to human resources. She also showed it on pre-fashion deals. In a short time, a huge number of requests have been resolved. Therefore, I think that FINA is really a state agency that can do it in a quality way in that first step, and I like that personal or consumer bankruptcy has that first stage, because it is simply an opportunity to negotiate out-of-court agreements and religious and debtors and force them to communicate. Which is, unfortunately, not a characteristic in the Republic of Croatia, but an ultimatum. This is where we force them through the FINA to take that big first step through that counseling facility. And I think there's a lot to be done in that first step. It is also good when bankruptcy proceedings begin, we have a phase of agreement again, but this time in court that all those who did not want to and who were guilty that maybe a voluntary settlement failed once again to settle before starting the procedure itself. I think that the articles of the law are defined and procedures and it is difficult to change something important in relation to the proposal they have before us for the simple reason that those who will bear the burden of solving and selling real estate to pay back are those who will cost the whole process and it is evident that it is a good intention for the state budget where we do not have the opportunity to pay the cost of the whole procedure. And that's what's positive. We have a skeptic here won't sell, don't worry, when the price falls the believer will buy the property, the believer will buy the property because he won't let it fall to a minimum. And I don't see any problems in that part. However, if you followed the objections to the law, I see that many worry about the fact that the believers will remain at risk. Well, I wouldn't agree. The goal of the state must be to protect citizens who have the only real estate. Unfortunately, this is Croatia's characteristic, they have entered this one real estate and I believe that we must protect both citizens under this law, and we must not throw them out of this property. And that is why I believe that, independently of this law, it will be necessary to amend an executive law which must now be recognised by the Consumer Bank Act and must not be thrown out by any law by citizens of first real estate. But from other real estate, yes. And that's what we're making him finally and in debt realize if I bought a child in Zagreb apartment, or at sea, and I can't pay it off for a thousand reasons, I don't have the right to this apartment, it's not mine, it's from the believers. And we simply have to end these actions. But the protection of the first property for the sake of Croatian characteristics that we still want to have our own property, we must preserve it. Therefore, this law only protects the debtor with the first real estate and puts him in a difficult position. Because if he's got real estate, it'll probably take five years for that trial to try to pay off as much as possible. Because if it isn't real estate, I believe that the trial will last all year, year and a few days. But all other properties that we don't have right now don't make it to its real estate, it simply calculates what, will, will go into action, won't go into action and we have an unsettled debt situation in the Republic of Croatia. The believer cannot charge, the debtor holds that property, generates additional costs because real estate is a liability, it rarely represents income. And when it's a commitment, he creates a commitment and doesn't repay the loan instead of simply realizing that as soon as possible he should give it to the believer to take care of it. Therefore, I believe that this law is also a protection of the credentials if it is not the first real estate. And that social moment to protect the first real estate I think is sufficiently expressed in this law, we still have to transpose that into other laws and then we'll get what we want. So the law is voluntary, the debtor decides if he's going to get into it and here are the estimates that out of all those 120,000 that could get into this system maybe thirty thousand of them, 30 grand will be defined for this model, so we'll see if there are any weaknesses in the model, but I don't think there should be any weaknesses. Therefore, given that this is an optional but voluntary system of how to solve your accumulated financial problems, that the protection of debtors is in the first real estate, that it is the protection of creditors in all other properties and let's not be burdened with believe that real estate will simply be transferred to those real owners and these are the creditors, if they are not the first real estate. And what is important is always driven by the debtor and the believer to the settlement. In the first stage of extrajudicial, in the second phase, the beginning is again an attempt to settle. And, of course, before the trial deadline is over, a settlement is still possible. Therefore, I would say a law that would make certain changes in the Republic of Croatia, a law that would allow citizens to really address the burdens that they may have taken with misjudges independently on the bad economic situation. And that's why I don't think we have as much time as possible to postpone, that half of this year's deadline is foreseen for both this and the next two years, so it's probably not going to go so fast that the funds will be insufficient, but I think we need to give the citizens this security and the ability to decide their own fate rather than be on the windwind of a banking system or some long believer. I think we should uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105070	Thank you very much. We now have a set of replicas. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Linic's, a few things. You have a problem with the title, so it's good to have the law in two readings, and we can still talk about it. But if the fact that 139 thousand 301 is a debtor means that the account has been blocked because of a debt of up to 10 thousand kuna and there are many those who have been blocked and because of the debt of 2,000 kuna, then it is clearly about consumers. So someone who is, who owes and we can't pay 10 thousand kuna or a smaller amount is certainly a consumer, but I agree with you to discuss what is the best title. As for specificity, Croatian specificities, I agree with 248 thousand 818 is those that have been blocked for more than a year, so this is one specificity. But I'd like to point out another specificity, and I think it's, I don't have any parallel data, but in a year, it's a debt to communications service providers that has increased by more than 230 million. So more than 37.5% has increased debt to communications service providers. So it is quite convinced that one of the specificities of our citizens, or debt in the Republic of Croatia, is because so huge amounts that are owed to communications service providers show that there is a disproportionateity between opportunities and between what we consider to be the life that everyone wants. So you really have to try to give to what we have or don't have. It is clear that this information, as well as some others relating to debt to banks that are the largest, shows that Croatia is full of the specificities that apply to our way of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105072	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105073	I agree with you that 130 thousand citizens with a debt of up to 10,000 should not even be subject to this law although the minister said it could be, it could be. I think he should be the subject of settlements that have come about forgiveness of debt or I don't know what the settlements are called and that we have to deal with it. If we are dissatisfied with it, the question remains whether or not we will commit a special law where we are bound by a settlement, binding, binding. Just like here, the first stage is a commitment. Therefore, if the government's agreement with telecommunications fails, with banks and... on small debts I think you can think about and shouldn't burden this law with 130 thousand because they are higher costs than the individual debt of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to telecommunications debt, then we have to understand that I think it's quite good for the citizens because he's going to have a trial for a year. I don't see the need, if you can get back, if you can't, you'll lose your phone, no connection, and no internet, and you'll simply have no debt because after a year of the trial you've returned, you've returned, which you can't pay back, you haven't returned. So this is the advantage of this law that you have a test from 1 to 5. And I don't think you should... There is also a question of individual tax debts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that citizens, unfortunately, have closed their trades, have not paid their debt, so they are now in debt as citizens. Yeah, a lot of reporters had RPOs and this and that, so they forgot to pay. So you have as many of them as you want in debt, it's all that needs to be resolved quickly through these procedures, a year of trial, and it's not a problem. The problem is for real estate, then it takes really 5 years of trial to realize that it's a serious, serious problem. And that's why this law gives us different possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105074	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105075	Dear counterpart Linic, you spoke of the specificity of Croatia regarding the property and what our citizens want. However, in this replica I was encouraged by a résumé I read yesterday from a young lawyer who wrote in his résumé not receiving any salary, a mother employed does not receive a salary and that is one of the specificities of Croatia. We have a law that says that non-payment of wages is a criminal agreement, and that may be understandable to some milder form for some private entrepreneurs who are fighting on the market but not understandable to the state. And I'm going to give you an example that's happening right now. We have a company in 100% state property. After all the problems were presented, a decision was finally taken to liquidate the company. The director who charged the company with 2 million kuna and 600,000 kuna assets was enrolled by the bank fiduciary has been removed, named liquidator, he is still receiving salary for 6 months, not working and employees in the company have not been paid for 8 months. And that is the specificity of Croatia. And this law as much as it takes to greet it, as you said and debated it and make it as good as possible, it is essentially a cure. But here in Croatia, we need to prevent these things from happening. Because we don't decide our own fate if it decides some kind of director who is named on the political line in 2012 to run this company and puts her in this situation. He still receives the salary and still receives it for 6 months and his employees have not received the salary for 8 months and the question is when they will get it. And if we don't think about it in a way to stop them and stop them, we'll still generate these cases, and definitely these people on the ground, regardless of all their assets, on the loans they took because they were getting regular wages, they don't decide on their own fate, as you unfortunately said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105076	Answers the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105077	There is no one, no one, no one, no private employer, for economic or any reason or crisis, and at least the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no payment of salaries in the majority state-owned. There isn't. It's irresponsible behavior, it's immoral behavior. And I have to say that nowhere in Europe exists and it's something that's very difficult to understand. It's even criminal behavior, illegal behavior, but we can see that there's neither enough responsibility nor enough hearing in such things because it's the most rigorous punishment that should be punished, the most rigorous. It's obvious we won't change if we don't go with rigorous sanctions. Rigorous sanctions are, above all, a ban on any management of such a person's affairs, without me saying the future in the next 100 years without a prison sentence, really prison. But unfortunately, what you're saying is that it's a matter of justice and let's not interfere with this law. That's why there's a question and we can discuss it. We say we guard the citizens and guard the first real estate because it is indeed the reality of Croatia. 200,000 jobs less in this mandate, at the same time you have a payout problem, even in state-owned companies, and so let's keep the first real estate, let's not give it, let's not let it go. The question remains whether or not we're going to keep other properties that wouldn't be quite right. This is a topic that we can discuss if we consider economic policy to be too guilty, whether or not we will be protecting and protecting citizens. It's the only dilemma. Until the second reading, we can clear it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105078	New replica, respected Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Linic, in your debate, you said that what's best in this law, or at least that's how I realized it, is exactly the protection of that first property. I seem to be very carefully reading the text of this law, I don't quite see in this law a guarantee of protection of the first real estate. In fact, you also said that the issue of personal bankruptcy is a matter of voluntary decision by debtors, but it seems to me that Article 9 does not stand because the application for the conduct of the procedure can be submitted by the consumer or by any of its creditors. So there will still be a decision here in the hands of the creditors, and I'm afraid there's no big guarantee that this first property will be able to be preserved in view of the total debt and since the creditors are mostly more than 80% of the bank cases, and we know that whoever has more power will get to that property sooner. So I'd like you to explain to me how protection is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105080	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105081	... To determine that the believer will very rarely reach this law because he has other legal means such as executions, which is far more efficient, faster, cheaper procedure than the bankruptcy of the debtors because it lasts for 5 years, his execution is over in a year. [[Specially enabled.]] So don't worry about real estate that the credentials will go after this model. That's why we say it's important that the debtor takes care of himself. If you think we really need to step up, that's why I said the first real estate not only through this law, but given that this law is ahead of us and that soon the second reading, when we talk about the Code of Conduct, we're going to put the first real estate there that we can't touch until the end. First real estate, if the procedure is in place. So I'm not in favour of general, but if we have to take advantage of this law and that's why I consider myself to be through other laws when we get to this law to protect the first real estate so that the exercise can't go to the first real estate if the Consumer Bank is launched and we will slowly come to the protection of the first real estate in the case of whoever initiated the procedure. So I think we have protection, we can have it, and try to figure out the creditors is this very slow procedure, it won't go into this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105082	Now the replica will be presented by the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105083	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, here I agree with a lot of things you said, but as a colleague before me, you pointed out on several occasions that this law will protect or protect the first real estate. So it's not true that we're protecting her, but now you've made it clear that we need to do a lot of work on this matter to achieve that goal right now. So this law suggests to the consumer that the requirement not to throw it out so as to say from this first property does not mean that in this first part, out-of-court settlements the believer will even respect such a demand by the consumer. In that procedure before the bankruptcy itself, we have another correctional to say so, which does not mean, again, that it will be respected and we come to bankruptcy where the judge gives the reasonable believer six months to sell that property on which he has a reasonable right. If the believer doesn't sell a separate property within six months, she's only going into bankruptcy. But as you said yourself, it's hard to believe that one of the creditors will not sell that property, especially if the debtor is therefore the consumer himself reported this. As far as the 30 000 kuna limit is concerned, there was a lot of uncertainty and I agree with you that this limit should remain as it is, that we should not be burdening it with lower amounts given the number of unemployed,... employees, and similarly because we have forgiveness of debt as one element where here you yourself have said almost 140,000 citizens could use this right and these 30,000 I think we should as such remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105084	The replica matches Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no problem with second reading strengthening the real intention of making the first real estate or the only real estate, better say the only real estate a citizen has to serve for his apartment. We can talk about the square of this property that is here and indicated. Therefore, it is acceptable that it really cannot be a house of 200 squares for a two-member or three-member family. So, in that part, yes. That it must certainly be given to the Commissioner, the possibility that he will assess that it is really a necessary property for life and that we should make up the rest of the laws. That's all we'll do until the second reading. And that must be the positive intention. First, the only real estate in which to live will be protected and therefore is a five-year trial. So for 5 years, the believer will give up, the debtor of a lot to try to pay as much as possible, but after 5 years of payment, he should have stayed in that property. This must be the intention of this law, because it is a Croatian specificity. You don't have it out there like that, but we need to understand that it's the only way for a citizen to stay in that property. Unfortunately, we didn't have a social policy of building state and municipal and city housing to secure our citizens' rent. No! No! We encouraged them through laws, remember the Law of Incentive Housing Building to buy real estate. Therefore, it is our specificity and therefore the first real estate to pay off in five years, will pay off. After that, through this law he must be protected that he will not be on the street if the square is adequate for his needs. And that must be the logic. Why? Because we forced citizens to buy, not rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105086	A new replica, a respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105087	Well, here you go, dear colleague Linic. I think this law needs to be a little more highlighted by the difference between the exception and the non-exempt property in this particular sense you're talking about. It is in my opinion that today, in this debate, the first real estate is protected. It is not protected by this bill either, and that is why I think it is necessary to strengthen this difference between the exception and the non-exempt property precisely because you and the first real estate can sell and this law allows. If real estate is the first real estate, the only real estate in which you live is bigger than your existential needs it goes for sale. So the law doesn't protect the first real estate here, and that's a clear point. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105088	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105089	I agree that until the second reading of this provision needs to be clarified and only a question remains, none of us can find an excuse to protect a double-square than the family that lives in it is needed. We won't be able to protect that. So the question remains what with that property, whether to sell the part, whether to replace it. But the only real estate that serves life shouldn't be taken away. It should be emphasized through this law independently of me would say insurance and therefore there are five, because I don't see the logic then that five years is a trial. Because if after five years of trial, we haven't achieved what we want. So, only the question remains a far greater square of the property than the needs. We will not be able to protect this, and in that section we need to clarify until the second reading to solve this problem so that there is no doubt. How do you solve the problem? But that's why I think there's a Commissioner who's gonna have to have that authority if we don't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105090	A new replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105091	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, I think we're forgetting two things here. First of all, in your debate that debtors are mostly or very often, I can't say what number they've gotten into trouble and the inability to repay their loans and debts to the believers because of a situation that's not on the debtors. So it wasn't their fault that there was, say, a reduced incentive in farmers. Well, then, until the credit conditions change. We know about the Swiss franc, change of course, then interest rates, etc. So we also know that believers have often entered arrangements with an already known outcome of the poor creditworthiness of debtors. And now this law actually ensures that we believe that, with some delay, or as you say, some period, a period of one to five years still comes to those funds that they have come to, but very often not by the guilt of the debtors, but by all of these and from the intensity of the Association "Franak" and the others, all of which, by which all principles have been raised by the increase in debts, the increase in the principal, etc. And I think that here, first of all, is the protection of the credentials, and about the debtors here we have a slight shift in terms of the period, let's say the graces of the delay period, etc. And that's it, one little, little help not enough for 300 and how many 20,000 people are blocked and everything. Besides, still being like a colleague said Okay, come on, we won't. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105092	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105093	I agree with you both Swiss and interest, but I ask you how many Croatian citizens regularly and neatly repay their loans. Probably more. Therefore, the only doubt that may be general forgiveness. No one has to return anything. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world, I don't think we'll even be determined for such a solution. No, there's no such thing as a possibility. We, therefore, have as parliamentary advocates the obligation and to citizens who carry out their duties neatly. What remains is that of those who return there are truly economically completely destroyed families who are not able and those who still have something because they bought more real estate, so something can be solved. We will turn to those who are weak, unprotected and economically incapacitated. I believe this law must ensure that. That's why we need this law. Try to understand, the credentials of this law are not good because they have executive law, they have a law that defines their mortgage, they have... right, many of them have fiduciaries. Well, people, they have huge resources, huge opportunities and lawyers who'll do it without a problem. Therefore, the system of protection of creditors through the Law of Conduct, the Law on Mandatory Relations, has dealt with all this. Therefore, try to understand this is the law we are trying to try and we must protect the weakest and the most vulnerable are unable to repay the debt because they are not able. And that's why I see it as a law that's a newspaper and that we'd have to accept. On the other hand, I see that there are institutions in Croatia that can do this. We just have to be careful not to be megalomatous, so we really want to settle everything from 2,000 to I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105094	Time. The last replica, respected Ilija Filipovic. He's gone. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105095	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here's how, on the drum in the last 5 years, 26 107 properties have gone or in 2014, we have completed 6658 properties, a year before 2013. 6733, 2012. 4786, 2011. 4266, 2010. 3664. So, in 2014, it's twice the number of real estates completed since 2010. And that clearly speaks of opportunities in Croatia. It says that today is harder to live than it was yesterday, and yesterday it was harder than the day before yesterday. When I look at the number of these completed properties in 2014, which is 6658, what I can't believe is the most done just in Istria County, 1455. In one town of Zagreb, which has 4 times as many inhabitants as the County of Istria, 601 properties were completed. In Zagreb County 600 real estate, in Zadar 166, in Osijek, which has twice the population of Istria County 508. I repeat, most recently, in Istria, 1455 real estate was completed in 2014. I agree with all those who speak not to perform the only real estate or one real estate, housing unit, but it is also good to help craftsmen, small employers because I claim that they are today and in a more difficult situation than the workers who work with them. Well, then, let me just say that in 2013, according to the tax administration's data, 3900 solutions were issued for the operation of the fishing season. The total debt in 2013 according to the Pazin Tax Administration amounted to 699 million kuna, 1800 pedestals were legal persons with 387 million kuna and 2100 pedicures with natural persons who owed at that time 312 million kuna. Once again, I cannot understand that in the county of Istria of 6658 completed real estate wastes of 1455. It's over 30%, it's one third of all completed properties and Istria as you know has about 4.5% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with all those who were here today saying that people should be pulled out of debt slavery. They should be given that second chance mentioned by the Minister of Justice. I don't know how many times I've asked for a law like this to be passed, to regulate this matter, to help people with problems. I'm saying that none of those people who got in trouble, who bought themselves, I don't know any real estate, etc. He's not a bad man, he's not a criminal or he didn't know how much he could be in charge. But in Croatia people are not to blame for what happens every day. Well, we followed the Swiss growth yesterday, we're losing jobs every day, we're witnessing company bankruptcy every day. In one word, business social uncertainty is absolutely the huge thing not to say amazing. For many things, the Croatian judiciary is also wrong in this country, not just Croatian politics. It is certain that it is, that the government is more effective in order to have fewer of these problems that we are talking about today. What I certainly want to welcome is that the ministry has conducted a comprehensive public debate as perhaps never before when it comes to some law. And the point is, normally, a legislator trying to help people get them out of debt slavery. Our people, I said, have to get a chance to get a fresh start. Our people have to get a new chance, because if not where they're going. If I may leave, I don't know what's out of the country, Germany. Well, just last year, the Germans issued around 24,000 work permits for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When we speak specifically about this law, the process of consumer bankruptcy will be open if the consumer is clearly insolvent, which means that if at least three months in a row he cannot meet one or more cash obligations in the total amount that the legislator proposes from 30 thousand kuna. It's one of the new solutions, you can talk about this amount smaller, bigger, but it's certainly a new solution from this consumer bankruptcy law. The bill itself consists of all sixty-something, three, four articles whose entry into force is foreseen for July 1.7 or 1st this year. Consumer bankruptcy is carried out over the property of consumers, and potentially the consumer is any person who does legal work or acts on the market outside of his or her own to say commercial, business, crafts or professional activities. The new provisions would apply to a natural person who carries out an independent activity but clearly with certain conditions. These conditions are that there are no more than 20 creditors, as well as that the obligation to carry out an independent activity does not pass in that particular case an amount or a figure of 100 thousand kuna and that there is no obligation from working relationships resulting from carrying out an independent activity and that no pre-departure or bankruptcy procedure has been initiated. Here, in the light of the law, it is said that global development, and this blame is being cast on this particular credit industry, resulted in a significant "supervised number of credit-indebted citizens, and according to CNB's 2004 demand for banks, so in December they amounted to 65.28 billion kuna, in December 2006, that amount was 95.69 billion kuna, in December 2008, already at 126.55 billion kuna and in November 2014. 126.87 billion kuna." So what we heard from several MPs, quoting this argument, was that due to the unexecuted payment grounds of 31 December 2014, there were 323 498 citizens and their debt amounted to HRK 31.06 billion, and the last day of December 2013 was blocked by some 300 thousand citizens, or more specifically 299,795 citizens whose debt amounted to HRK 23.8 billion, while a year earlier on December 31st 2012, there were 245,441 citizens with an amount of 17,7 billion kuna. And that's what I said that year after year opportunities are unfortunately harder for many, social uncertainty greater for many, so I would say insensitivity or insolence, first of all, of banks or these financial institutions are growing and growing. This law offers a solution, I will say for part of the debtors from the ranks of blocked natural persons, those 25 thousand who carry out their own registered activity. The new solution is similar to the solutions as we see in the rationale of the German Banking Act, and the purpose is to avoid this conflict normally with the consumer bankruptcy law, with this bankruptcy law which is usually related to companies. As the proposer cites the reasons for launching the consumer bankruptcy process, they are adapted to the current economic situation so to European standards, and I will say before European standards than to the economic situation because opportunities, as I unfortunately said, are increasing from day to day. The person intending to submit a proposal to the court for the opening of a consumer bankruptcy proceedings shall before this submit a request to the advisory or financial agency for the implementation of the extrajudicial procedure in a particular form, etc. The out-of-court procedure would take 60 days, with the possibility that the deadline may be extended for an additional 30 days, if the consultation or participants in the assessment process are able to conclude an agreement. An out-of-court agreement concluded between the consumer and his creditors would have a clear condition for an out-of-court settlement. Understandably, what may be most important in all of this is the performance of the first real estate. The consumer will be able to suggest that by the end of the period of behavior check and that, in fact or behavior checks are better said, they do not sell the property needed for housing if they do not own another property. So there's a way to say the possibility, and it should be like all the MPs pointed out before me in a particularly firm way, so that these people on this point, I dare say, let's protect as much as possible. What is certainly important is that this procedure can only be initiated by a debtor, it cannot drive you into a personal bankruptcy by a believer. It is the citizen who decides whether to enter or not. The believer cannot in any way force the debtor to enter that personal bankruptcy except with the consent of the debtor. Clearly, this is a difficult procedure, not as easy as the bankruptcy for both the debtor and the believer himself. And I don't need to raise myself I'd say some false expectations that the implementation of this law is a simple thing that overnight will help anyone in financial problems. However, that is to say, this law does not or does not offer a magic wand and debts will not be written off at the moment, but as I would say, the entire property goes into debt payment. And after the process is over, it can be said that the debtor is moving somehow from zero, but in order for that to happen I will argue there will be a lot of trouble, not to say the uncertainty itself. What is certainly good when we talk about this consumer bankruptcy law to go into 2 readings, I want to believe that this will speed up, and also because of these pre-election, electoral, etc., events and it will be good if the law is passed and if it goes into effect as in the transitional, final provisions set out at 1.7 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105096	Thank you. We move to replicas, first Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105097	You say your colleague that in 2014 there were much more performances than in 2010. And that's exactly what it is. However, you must know that the debt... The path from the owner to today's bankrupted goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that your debts were made a long time ago. And our question here is, how is possible, we are now relieving the consequences of that not happening at all. And a whole series of measures taken by the government are going in that direction and in that direction. I'm glad you're saying that you agree that this is a good law and I'd add it and you've been talking about it, so the law is good and the law is voluntary. He is not the magic wand the minister says, he will not remove all worries, but he will remove the Damocle sword that hangs over these people. He will remove them and spread the noose around their necks. And that's what's most important. They are the only people in Croatia who envy those who have nothing. And I wish those people had nothing, they have that debt. And this is exactly the solution, this bill, it's the only flaw that hasn't come before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105098	The answer to Damir Cain's replica. ... Another replica, Drazenko Pandek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105099	Thank you. My dear colleague, you spoke of increasing the number of executions and, of course, the causes of the exercise, you also state the consequences of the economic crisis. When it came to the preparation of this law, citizens were often mentioned who were also unresponsibly spending, so they entered into this debt relationship where they could not repay their debts. But in my environment, I would say that to a greater extent, the economic crisis over time has affected the property situation of a large number of people. A large number of people were either out of a job or had a significant pay cut and then cumulatively settled their debts while he could for 5, 6 years and eventually simply came to a dead end where he could no longer meet with his incomes his obligations neatly with that receiving status 6, 7 years ago. That's why I think it's a good law to get these people out of a debt crisis that I can barely handle with my current incomes, and I can't handle a major interest. In this regard, I would also refer to those cases where people function at a significantly lower level and income and debt than these added 30,000. I mean, here's a chance I'd take advantage of to appeal to take care of them, too. For example. If someone has 1,500 kuna monthly incomes and their debts amount to about 2000 kuna per month he will be very difficult or over a long period come to this required amount of 30 thousand kuna which is as a limit. However, he personally finds himself psychologically and realistically in a very difficult situation. And I appeal to them too to find a solution so that the limit may be conditional on some personal, personal condition, a personal condition at the time when they would apply for personal bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105100	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105101	Well, I wouldn't say and I didn't say that, as you mentioned, individuals spent independently. No, I didn't say, although whoever bought his first apartment he certainly spent in the most rational way possible because he had to give up a lot to move in and stand alone at all. The one who bought the car also doesn't claim to be unfounded, no, depends normally on what kind of car but didn't waste unfounded. In this country, we know what opportunities have simply changed, mainly since 2008. We happen to have Swiss, the decline in incomes of many, unemployment has increased dramatically, we have a loss of payload power, and then it determines simply the work of most of this small sector and I'm not saying everything else. But I spoke and mentioned the simple number of real estate completed since 2008, when the crisis somehow started, when people somehow used some more of those under quotes from the internal reserve, when they might have been able to borrow once or twice more, we had 2106 completed real estates, in 2014 and 6658 and it speaks largely of the opportunities in this country. And out of that number of 6658 real estate in County, the Istrian waste is 1455. That's a little less than 30% somewhere. The city of Zagreb, which has 800,000 inhabitants 601, Zadar County 166. I simply cannot understand whether in this segment of our judiciary seems extremely zealous, when I say ours here I mean specifically to Istrian or elsewhere in similar counties simply the judiciary does nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105102	Time. Third replica, the esteemed Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105103	Comrade Cain, you spoke of very serious matters, you mentioned the judiciary, etc. but I'm asking you as your colleague and your friend, how can I trust you this morning after you attacked all your fellow members of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, claiming they were asking stupid questions or as you said at the level of some entertainment show. The session lasted six hours, you weren't in that session. You could only watch some of the TV contributions for 2 minutes and therefore dare show shamelessly slander your colleagues. After that, I wonder how credible any of your statements are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105104	It'll be interesting to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105105	What do I want to tell you, Mr. Representative, or what do I want to tell you? Well, you don't just have to trust me. Yes, I will repeat once again that the way the contribution was shown in some media really speaks about the fact that members of the Justice Committee were asking questions at the level of a fun pyramid. I looked at this article, I didn't read the phonograms, I didn't participate in the work of that committee, but as it was shown, it was either under the dignity of the committee itself or those who prepared this contribution. And whether you trust me or not, it's your personal business. We've known each other too long and I think the entire Croatian public knows who's represented what attitudes all these 20 and over.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105106	A good practice in this House is that when MPs address each other, whether you are private or you. These are the foundations of jurisdiction, the foundation of Caine. New replica, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105107	Thank you. Comrade Cain, I agree with your discussion in the part where you said that this law practically treats the consequences and solves the consequences, but if we don't solve the causes of the effects of this law will be none, and solving the samples is a matter of foreign exchange clause, it's a question of variable interest, it's a question of real estate assessment at the time when the loan is given and taking is part of the risk based on the estimated value of the property then if the property goes to the drum. What it means is that if the bank has an estimate of some real estate, let it pay for the one in that value who took the loan, not what we have today. We have today that someone has returned the loan, practically that on the basis of interest and foreign exchange clauses is still due and according to market value far less that property goes for sale and practically the only debtor in that section is the only one who loses. These are the causes, and until we resolve these causes, the issue of this law will not solve the issue of all problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105108	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105109	Very, very short. I think I've been quoting recently one example down from Istria, that based on the debt of several thousand kunas, the business bank has completed an apartment worth 250,000 kuna. It is amazing, but it is simply possible, not only with regard to the conduct of the Pula competent court, but it is probably a practice for you in Zagreb and elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105110	The last replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, I think that you have highlighted a few things that are extremely important, which is, above all, voluntary when we talk about consumer bankruptcy, so that a person who is in financial problems who is thinking about this instrument will first not be forced to choose whether or not he wants to solve his financial problem in this way. You said and the minister said besides, this isn't a magic wand. No, it is not and will not be safe to solve all the problems of our fellow citizens who have debt problems, but surely it is a step towards a systematic solution to this problem because it will open up another institute to which they will be able to address their problems. I also agree that it is good that it is in two readings, that we will make it well and we have one quality legal proposal and I agree with my colleague Anticevic when she said the only mistake, the only flaw of this law is that we did not get it in the procedure earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105112	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105113	Yes, absolutely a pity, I agree with Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic, with you, too, too bad that this law has not been passed much earlier, but let's do better than ever. And I think it's kind of late, no matter how late it is, whenever there's a right time for a law like this. Why, because with citizens, personal bankruptcy could be requested by craftsmen, even though they are generally referred to by them, we all know that, the Bankrupt Act. But a personal bankruptcy exit in certain cases could also be sought by craftsmen, as I have said before in the debate, those with less than 20 creditors of the obligations arising from the self-execution of the activity, which do not exceed 100 thousand kuna, who do not have obligations to the workers and who are not subject to this pre-determined or I do not know how to call it the bankruptcy process itself. I'll say it one more time, it's an extremely difficult procedure for both the debtor and the believer himself, and that's why it doesn't need to spread any false expectations, because this is certainly not a simple thing. And I agree with a minister who says, who's apostrophe that it's not a magic wand and that just after that, life begins as if nothing had happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105114	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists will speak to the respected representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105115	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. Our club will support this bill in the first reading and we believe that until the second reading it will be significantly improved. It is not the only problem of this proposal that did not come too soon, although we do regret not, too late because we really regret that it did not come much earlier, which it may not have come in 2011 or at the beginning of the economic crisis itself. Maybe it'd be easier for everyone. We see this law as a kind of forced drug for all of our systemic illnesses. This bill is certainly and the proposer has chosen a much lighter model, so the German-Austrian-Slovenian combination that this law represents. Our club certainly wouldn't have raised its hands, for example, if it had taken an American model that was brutal, which practically demeans a man in some way. This model is still better. However, compared to this model, we have a specific situation. If we did an analysis of these 300 thousand people who are practically open to this kind of personal bankruptcy, then the question is, how much is their right to blame, and how many are in some way victims of all possible economic failures, victims of all possible crime, corruption, the collapse of state banks, and the recovery of state banks, and the loss of jobs that caused them to fall into debt, and today we still have to sort of resuscitate them all together. So the only cure for solving cases that this law monitors is productivity, increased productivity in the country, production, growth and development, and then through this law it will be easier to walk. I would personally propose until the second reading to the Minister that he in some way strengthen those parts of the law he left in the domain of regulation. So you have me thinking six or seven regulations. You've left the problem solved by the rules, maybe you've taken on too much weight. Perhaps some items should be installed until the second reading into the law. For example, you have a situation so as to register such people who have opened a personal bankruptcy procedure. Those registers are public. The question arises whether they will be ridiculed by their community, the living community in which they live, how families, children will pass, how much trauma they will experience, and how carefully they should be regulated in some ways. It's not simple. It's extremely difficult, but I wouldn't want to get through and at the club I wouldn't want this part of it to open up to the public and that transparency to the whole of the Pandora's box of psychological problems, frustration, and maybe suicides and similar things which are resorted to by those who no longer see the way out or who get the contempt of the social community. You know, in America, you have these many cases, and this model of ours can be converted through this channel into an American model where people who practically went bankrupt experience a community conviction can no longer be employed. It's been following them for years. I would also suggest to the Proposer that, in some way, determine in a clearer way what property it is, which does not go into personal bankruptcy. I find that extremely important. And I think that should be clarified by the second reading. So here's the law one in my opinion law, a sad law that if we can say so, which creates a lot of frustration, and it's up to us to cut them down, to create a clearer picture and make the rules clear and unequivocal so that as little space as possible for these situations where volunteering can cause big problems. A lot of this has been left to the court's decisions and the court's assessment. So there's going to have to go to the judge specialization of those who will exclusively work these cases because there won't be any, there will be many. So I think this law absolutely should first make the education of judges, and then go into law enforcement. Here, so much for us. In any case, we'll support him in his first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105116	Thank you. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105117	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Skare-Ozbolt, in this part of yours, you can say in a short part very concisely repeat the key problems. However, what may be most controversial about this law is quite like this, to say the poetically, he wants to solve a problem that is far from it. So that's 322 thousand different fates, 322 thousand different reasons why someone came into this kind of trouble. And it's certain that this problem without a middleman can't be solved. However, what is the biggest problem of this law, I will talk about it more in my individual debate, in fact in the debate on behalf of the club, is that we in Croatia, and that's why I answered the replica because you told the Minister that you should specify which property is being carried out, which is not being carried out. Today in Croatia there are many different types of properties, not just real estate. And that's something to pay close attention to when it comes to this law. And secondly, it's the creditor's status or the one on which it's done and there when you talk about tight family members since they're using a property that's not the only object, it can't actually be, uh, the execution, what's their status in the whole story? Because it doesn't matter how much the property is just the one over which it's being carried out, it's also the one who's using that entire property. And that's the family story, that's one of the projects that the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank worked on in 2005 and 2006, and that's something that's unfortunate that in Croatia it didn't get angry as something like that. And we, given the large number of real estate, there's a lot of it, and if you don't put it all on the pile, and that's why when I talked about the Central Register around the OIB, I didn't talk about these various registries, but about the register where all the information about the assets is collected, both legal and physical. So, one law that may have been the first step but I think it had to be more drastic in some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105118	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105119	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I am an advocate to define as clearly as possible all the parameters related to this bill which is extremely complex, difficult and possibly most boring precisely because it concerns citizens with the fate of people. You know, it's not easy when you have to tell a child that you have to ask the Commissioner if you can buy him a pair of shoes or buy him a school bag. So these are all very painful questions. Yes, the question of property is really raised, for example. If you have two 18-year-olds, you're either on them or they got property from your grandparents, you live with them, you're the only holder of some kind of credit, you've fallen into practically heavy debt, you can't pay back, your kids don't work but they have property. The question arises whether this property is also going in, is it an object, isn't it? Therefore, there are many things that are unsaid. Of course, the law cannot predict all possible situations. It's just impossible. But I think until the second reading, there is an extremely complex job at the ministry and a task as clearly as possible to establish criteria to make this law as painful as possible when it comes to implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105120	The word now comes from the justice minister, the respected Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105121	Thank you very much. I thank you for these points for certain possible indiscretions. Transparency, I agree, is one thing that we've weighd very much on how to achieve it because transparency is the only one that preserves the integrity of this process and that actually gives protection to both the debtor and the believer on one hand. On the other hand, avoid this situation so that the debtor is widthd and that in fact all his data becomes public. Different countries have different solutions, we went for the announcement board to be published over which bankruptcy was announced, but insight into concrete data will not have anyone. So they won't be public. If you think we need something else here, and if you have a suggestion, we can work on it, but on the one hand, it's a public procedure in the sense that we need to know who got into it because that's the only way that believers can protect themselves. Because you know, you're a believer who you don't even know you've been issued a bankruptcy, you're not informed, and you're losing any possibility of intervention. So that part has to be public. And we are aware that it will often be an additional burden for citizens and that sometimes they will be in trouble because of it, but it simply cannot be avoided. Because otherwise, there's no such thing as a procedure. But we're not going to make public this other data that is directly, which is much more concrete, etc. But the believer has to be informed and has to be able to participate in the procedure otherwise we don't have a procedure. So we tried to find a balance. What you said about going through the rulebook or the law, we can put some things more into the law by the second reading, but you know for yourself that sometimes rules have to do things just because of their flexibility within the legal framework. So that's something we can talk about. Determination of property, I agree. The important thing I would point out to you in Article 41, so all the property goes into bankruptcy, except for property that cannot be subject to compliance with the provisions of the Executive Act. So now we can copy here, but we think it's pretty specific with this. There's been a question of relatives' property, they're not going, of course they're not going. My kids aren't in charge of my debts, they're mine. And the fact that they have some kind of property, it can't be added up. Of course, they will be able to control those transfers of assets that were directly before they spoke of abuse. And it's normal, it's got to exist everywhere, but of course if some kid got an inheritance it's his inheritance isn't mine and my debts are my debts. So that's defined. That's where we absolutely agree. We think that we have time and precisely because we have a procedure in front of the counselling centres that we're going to use because it's not going to come to court, it can't come to court until the counsellor passes, and that's where we're going to take advantage of the opportunity for education. And like you said, I said, that's the key. Without good education, specializations will actually remain difficult to enforce the law especially because institutes are new, no one knows how to deal with them, courts will have to have exactly the support because they will create some things from the beginning. And it's an extremely key to success. And education at FINA and education later, it's really one thing we're going to keep a maximum account of. You know how much we can or can't go through the Justice Academy, but how much we can spend. So, if you think about anything about determining property we're absolutely here for if you think it should be more specific, some things we want to correct, let's say for restraints, that's what we're already told on the board, so we want some things about this property that we never get into these obligations that we're left with. It's important to prevent abuse. With the fact that we have to be aware that they will be. There are abuses in all countries, they will also be in Croatia. The point is to bring abuses to be an incident, not a phenomenon. Because when it's an incident, then you can deal with them. And the success of the law is in it. If they're mass, then we're not, then we missed. As for when we bring it in, we bring it back as soon as we can. I'm not going to enter at all whether it could have been brought sooner or later, I say what was in our mandate, it's been done a whole series of things, the situation has changed in countries that we have too referenced, so here's Austria has changed some things recently, Slovenia. So, to go with some solution and you see that where it was first applied changes, we said let's wait a little while, the public debate is almost a year, we went wider. We could have been here a year ago, but we wouldn't have had a public debate. So these are some things that led to us being here today with the law. Here's another thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105122	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105123	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I am also troubled by this public announcement, i.e. a public call on the website of FINA, where the name and last name of the consumer, OIB, address, with a list of all the creditors is published. You're saying that we might not be able to, I would have given you one proposal, so when we included citizens in the debt write-down model using the debt-recording application we assigned them a username and password where they can therefore use that username and password to enter that application. I think this might be one of the good models, because I'm afraid of everything that's going to happen, and that's specificity, another specificity of Croatia, it seems to me especially in rural areas where everyone knows everything about everyone, and I'm afraid that a lot of people will, because of this here's some kind of personal bankruptcy, be stegmatized and I think we should think in this direction exactly that username and password. So we have a deal with the debtor and the creditors, everyone in this process can get that password or how we're going to call it to then look at the data that they're interested in and all that, that's what the Commissioner or FINA puts in a particular register.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105124	The replica matches Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105125	Thank you very much. Here's one question we're trying to find the best possible solution to. And I said that transparency is important. So what you've pointed to is absolutely standing and many citizens are going to be stigmatized, so that's what MP Skare-Ozbolt was saying, so he's going to be stigmatized, he's going to be in trouble. But we still haven't found a way to reach the faith's intelligence. Because if you and I are a believer of someone here, you don't know there's bankruptcy, you don't really know about it, and you can't participate in it at all, and the system is such that the debtor himself says who his creditors are. You understand? That link we find and between the two readings absolutely what you said we'll consider, try to find the best possible way, but I'm afraid it will be very difficult because without this element of the initial public later everything is unreachable to the public. But at some point you have to have it as a moment that causes legal effects, because after that the believer will miss something and will no longer be able to participate, but you have to give it the opportunity to be informed. It's hard to find that right balance, we're aware of that. I'm glad you pointed out that because we've really thought a lot about it, we've been trying to find a solution and we're really open if we can find something better, but I'm saying we have to have this solution, too. You must know you can't proceed without you actually didn't know about him. Here's the limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105126	I thank the minister. Another replica gave up. So we continue to discuss clubs. The position of the SDP club will be passed on to us by a respected Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105127	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associate, colleague and colleague, so here we are today in our first reading discussing essentially one proposal for a new law practically, so in Croatia, a proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law. So that's the law you've been talking about for years. Here I will remind you there somewhere in 2010 that the government at the time brought the basics for the introduction of a personal bankruptcy institute and somewhere if I am not mistaken from January 2014 some skeleton of the bill's proposal was prepared but after that we came to this point when we talked about this law in the first reading. We welcome the fact that the government has prepared it and sent it to the parliamentary procedure. Right at the beginning of the word we support its introduction, so that's something we talked about within the SDP. The minister said in his opening address that it was a law that might be better brought in in some such a way to say good times, not times of crisis. But we consider and accept this law and as part of a package of measures that the Government is going to meet with those of our citizens who, because of their personal overindebtedness, have found themselves in an extremely difficult situation and are practically no longer seeing their way out of such a situation and would certainly not be able to solve it themselves. Perhaps I should read a few numbers, which is essentially the very reason, at the very beginning in the assessment of the situation that we have today when it comes to the credit responsibility of citizens. Just a few details to see how those duties went over the years. So in December 2004, bank demand per capita was 65.28 billion kuna, in December 2006. 95.69 billion kuna, December 2008. The 126,55 billion kuna and in November 2014 amounted to 126,87 billion kuna. So one period more per year in which in some under quotes and better times or not under quotes when our citizens were in debt and these debts are, credit debts grew year after year. We believe that it is the responsibility of each and every government to identify the problems its citizens are in and to offer solutions. And we at the SDP club are deeply convinced that the bill goes that way. In fact, Croatian citizens have unfortunately not remained spared what is called the debt crisis. The result is the overall difficult economic situation not only in Croatia but also outside and the multi-year crisis shows it is taking its toll. Of course, we at the SDP club and government colleagues always point out that economic recovery and jobs are what can best solve citizens' problems, especially those at the edge of poverty. And the government shows itself by its measures working in this direction as it is seen and from the fact that we are witnessing the truth with a light but recovery because all certain parameters are growing and we believe that in the future they will also lead to a faster economic recovery and more jobs. But, of course, in times of crisis, we must offer our citizens every opportunity to find a way out of the situation they have found themselves in. Most of them certainly did not find themselves in that crisis by their guilt. There are different reasons, borrowing at a time when there may have been a better job, borrowing at times when perhaps the workplace was safe, in the meantime there may have been some other kind of loss of employment, inability to pay off credit, under-income. And in a situation where, and coming into a situation where probably these citizens of ours no longer have their own abilities or knowledge to deal with debts that have grown in the meantime, and the state of course has to help them. Therefore, those citizens who are no longer able to fulfil their obligations and whose property is such as to conclude that they will not be able to fulfil their obligations within a period of several years. So from their point of view, but also from our point of view, they're in a one-stop-shop situation and we're in favour of having to give them a second chance, to allow them to start over after a certain period. What can help them is certainly the institution of personal bankruptcy, or as they call it, and the personal bankruptcy it is currently offering and the bill of law that is before us. The Institute of personal bankruptcy is known in many countries. When we talk about the countries of the European Union, then only next to Croatia do Hungary and Romania not have such a law, all other countries have solved it long ago. Bulgaria and Spain do not have a Law on personal bankruptcy but apply a similar model in practice through agreement between debtors and creditors. The law allows debtors to if they find themselves in a situation that they cannot repay debts to be released from debt after they have passed the procedure. In all countries, personal bankruptcy is also possible for the solution of actions and social and social problems. As explained in the law, the Institute of Consumer Banks allows the creation of conditions for insolvency consumers to reprogram their obligations, for a fresh start, and on the other hand enables creditors to evenly settle their claims. In addition, what we consider to be significant is the conditions for both non-institutional and then institutional frameworks to reach agreement between creditors and debtors, and thus in some ways the positive one is followed, followed by positive trends in the legislation of the Member States of the European Union that encourage and extrajudicial dispute resolution and reduces the burden of the judicial system. In fact, there is also a legal obligation for debtors to try to enter into an agreement with creditors in an out-of-court procedure, and before it comes forward with a proposal to open a consumer bankruptcy procedure or debtors in a court of law. More colleagues and colleagues stressed that in the last 10 years, the debt of citizens to banks, I said for years in the introduction, has doubled from 65 to 126 billion kuna, with both debts and more than 322 000 blocked citizens who owe more than 31 billion kuna. Under the proposal of this law, private bankruptcy will be allowed by those who are insolvent, which implies that they have a debt of more than 30 000 kuna and fail to settle those debts over a period of more than 3 months, but of course it does not exclude the possibility that others who may have fewer amounts, if they are found to be insolvent and with these smaller amounts, will be able to open the process of personal bankruptcy. We also hold especially important that personal bankruptcy will be possible for craftsmen, persons with self-interest, which is, if I am not mistaken, I have read somewhere that this possibility is welcomed by the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, especially as there will therefore be an opportunity for such craftsmen to and during the period during which they go through personal bankruptcy that they can also do regular business. The direct benefit certainly comes from both states and craftsmen, but also from the economy as a whole, and that is another positive side of this law. On behalf of the SDP club, I also want to, although it has been pointed out repeatedly here, to point out once again that this law is not a measure of forgiveness of debt, that the government's debt is carried out through other types of measures. Debts are not deleted, which I think must always be highlighted clearly and unequivocally. And finally, this procedure certainly isn't easy. By entering the process of personal bankruptcy, the debtor no longer actually manages his assets. If prescribed, the debtor shall not be able to dispose of the property and pay on his own during a specified period of time. Debts shall be settled according to the previously established plan. In particular, I would like to stress and welcome the decision, i.e. the proposal in the law, that the determination of the part that the debtor must remain that he can live as much as he can in fact live normally, so that this amount which is determined to be truly individual given that here and in the public debate on this bill there have been different amounts, so it has been the case with certain amounts, but it is important that the bill also takes into account that consumer bankruptcy proceedings and thus protect the fundamental right to a decent life. And I believe, or we at the SDP club, we believe that this part of it will be done at the time when personal bankruptcy comes. Finally, I repeat again, the SDP club supports the bill's proposal in the first reading. We consider this law extremely necessary and therefore we believe that in this way we allow another part of our citizens to open up the chance to start a new life in some way, that is to say, to allow a new beginning by understanding the situation in which they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105128	Against this debate, the replica stands up to the respected Vesna Sabalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105129	Comrade Sobol, there's only one part of me that disagrees with your argument. In fact, you said mostly, this is in the opening statement of this law, that consumers or citizens themselves are generally guilty of being put in a position not to repay their debts, i.e. that the global crisis is at stake. In no word have you mentioned the situation in the Croatian economy, the whole situation that has hit both the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens over the past 20 years since we have been collecting these debts since 2004. You didn't mention it, and I think one of the key reasons why most citizens were brought into this position is actually to place credit as a bad product. The whole professional public agreed that loans in Swiss francs and other loans were actually due to this debt crisis in which the citizens were found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105130	Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105131	Thank you. Well, fellow Sabolic, I'm sorry, because then I don't think you listened well to me. And to say that I said that citizens in trouble have found themselves solely because they're guilty, absolutely not standing because I said, again, now I'm going to repeat, the largest number of them in the crisis have not been found guilty of their own guilt. The loss of a job, and then I said, "Lost of a good job, going to some less paid job, "inability to pay off a loan, too little income." So that's what I'm talking about. Of course, I mentioned and said that I am now not reading everything and the impact of the global crisis, but therefore the economic crisis and the situation in Croatia, but also beyond Croatia. So it all affected this. I agree with you, of course, that this part that you mentioned, therefore, about the bad loans, so on the credit among other things in the Swiss francs, etc. Yes, and that part must have been something that greatly affected the citizens in the crisis. But this government and that part solve, and that is where we had the opportunity to discuss it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105132	We've already made that clear, so we'll hear the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The replica does not mean that man disagrees, but means exchange, additional exchange of views Yeah, that's right. [[Then we'll hear a replica of consent.]] What? No, I don't. [[Intruding Stazic: Shall we hear the replica of consent then?]] I'm talking about the exchange of views. I think that's very good. One part of the citizens, I agree, and the larger one is not, found himself in difficulty, not with his own guilt. But certainly there are also those who have found themselves and because they may not have been able to assess their options well and what they wanted to perhaps live beyond these possibilities. That's also a fact. What's the point of this law is to open a new book. So close one book, open a new book. And I agree when you say that this procedure is not easy. It is not easy and it will not be easy if the law is passed, to decide at all to initiate such a procedure from the one who has to run it, because it will mean a number of people, and it is very difficult to acknowledge failure. So, if we're failures, someone else has to take extra care of us now. It's very, very difficult and very complicated. So I think that one of the main objectives of lawmaking and the structure of the provisions must be, and you have also talked about protecting reputations of dignity, protecting honor and what seems to me then, in this context, particularly important protection as possible of the greater personal data of those who will run this little light, not a little simple procedure for which they will not actually know whether they will be successful in certain cases. So, really close an old book, open a new book, start a new, different, successful life or not. Therefore, data protection through this law must be fully guaranteed in that sense, which means protecting the reputation of dignity and honor for each individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105134	The replica matches the esteemed Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Kosor, I agree with you, and I specifically emphasized it in the debate on behalf of the club. Therefore, this warning that this procedure is not easy, etc. Sometimes what I'm thinking is, if we talk about it all the time, talk about it, talk about it, maybe even fewer people decide to start a personal bankruptcy. However, as easy as it is not, we have to sort of consider it as being positive, in fact, as a really good opportunity to start over. I agree, of course, that there are among all these debtors and those who have overestimated themselves, which may have been some things happening in life in the meantime that in the end it turns out that even if it's some sort of property, etc. that it's too much of a burden now. And so in that part, I believe that at least one part of them will decide on what is a difficult decision, which is really going to require here, and I appeal here to protect the dignity or dignity of those persons. Because unfortunately we're still living in a society where in a very easy way they're actually labeling themselves, and that is to say, they're stegmatizing people, so here's what they've been experiencing, let's just say for themselves, you said a certain failure in life. But that's why it's up to all of us to make this law what it brings, and we, all of us who publicly act, promote it as one positive option.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105136	On behalf of the SDSS club will now speak the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105137	I welcome the Minister of Justice and his assistant. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club, I will immediately say that we will support this bill in the first reading. So, we respect the two facts that the Proposer, i.e. the Minister, has said in the introduction, which is that they have entered this whole project very carefully because they are aware that this law introduces a new instrument that is complete and legally new and in practice new in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia, and a great temptation will only present itself in its implementation in real life, i.e. by observing the practice and resolution of certain life fates. Also, for us it is acceptable thesis, we very much appreciate that the Proposer is trying to give this legal text so-called. second chance for all debtors in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the figure that has been mentioned here is that in the Republic of Croatia right now there are about 323 thousand citizens under blockade, so under the blockade of all banks, that is, all of their accounts, and based on the 2010 Executive Law, what is very important here to mention what is the cause, or what is the legal basis of these blockades? If we add up 323 thousand blocked numbers to their family members, there has already been talk that there will be a word somewhere around cca million blocked citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, every 4 employees of the Republic of Croatia are blocked today, or every 9 persons in employment are blocked, and one of the major labour potentials in the Republic of Croatia has been blocked. Blocked, let me say here, means absolute blockage. So when you block yourself, you're blocked with accounts from all banks and you just don't have room for basic existence. During that period from 2010 to 2014, such growth of blockades meant in some statistical indicators about 65 thousand people a year, which would mean somewhere around 5.5 thousand people a month is blocked during this period. And the amount of debt, therefore not the principal but some kind of legalised interest rate, is thus growing to about a billion kuna in the last 45 days. What's important here is to say that in the structure of these blocked somewhere around 109 thousand are women, and 152 thousand are blocked men, aged 18 to 55. When we say that, I mean first of all one alarming piece of information because we see that the most active working potential in this country is actually blocked. And at the end of the last six years, citizens have lost some 9.5 thousand of their apartments or houses. And that's that there's another alarming information to be responded to. We have here a top-list of those credentials that have blocked the citizens, so I can only say the most interesting thing is that teleopers are the ones who are the top-list of the credentials, and behind them are the banks and the HRT so they're the factoring institutions to collect the claims. Those who block citizens are also communals, and it is also 108 cities that have blocked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at millions. Otherwise, there are currently about 20,000 craftsmen in the blockade and 30,000 OPG carriers that no one has spoken of here, only craftsmen were mentioned. We in the SDSS, above all, welcome the government's decision to help this category of people, meaning to this entire army of people who are blocked, who are in certain debt slavery. And we think that apart from this law that's going to be a little bit later in a nomotechnical sense and we think that we need to get into the measure of things, which is essentially this state of affairs, and we're going to list some of the causes. First of all, these are for us banks that gave credit and who, realistically looking at year-on-year, are increasing profits, and the opposite of the increasing number of their committees is coming into debt slavery according to the data that I was making. This shows only the fact that the banks today are both legally and commercially protected and, on the other hand, the opposite of citizens are in this case completely unprotected. The banks are rich, the state and its citizens are poor. You today have about 200 billion kuna savings in bank accounts, and it's serious that these 200 billion kunas that a small percentage of savings actually hold about 70 to 80% of the savings of 200 billion. While on the other hand, we have blocked citizens who owe the state, i.e. the various committees owe 25 billion kuna. Now the question here is one, what kind of society are we building and what stage have we come to in this society's development? That a small number has huge capital in the savings of banks, and on the other hand a large number of individuals owe billions that they cannot pay through regular life and regular business. The next thing, of course, is unemployment, wage cuts or irregular payouts. In any case, it introduces and leads to different types of debt slavery, i.e. poverty. ... unemployment, of course, in high correlation with blocks because on the one hand we have 320 thousand unemployed, and on the other hand we also have 330 thousand blocked, so the data itself tells us how serious the correlation between unemployment and insolvency is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think, therefore, that the basic thing is to ensure, the biggest guarantee for workers, or people, would also be the greatest protection against insolvency would be the ability to work, the possibility of real employment and the correct payout and then we wouldn't have to be in a position to pass these laws. Also, the lending industry or the consumer industry, as well as to be realistic political lies about well-being, which are often presented to us by both state and political elites as well as by the EU, so that they do not produce today's awareness of the public's awareness of the risk of debt and such an industry would in any case make it highly unproductive in relation to the real, real industry that would create jobs for citizens, and society in any case. And we finally think that this law except that the solution that is acceptable to us is essentially a palitative law, so it will temporarily address these situations. We need to strengthen the protection mechanism of home rights, which is the basic message we would like to read from this legal text. So you need to protect your family's personal dignity and dignity through this kind of legal fashion. That's the basic thing. We see that there is a solution in the law to protect the sale or bankruptcy, that is, to take away the first property, it is good, in any case, because it is the first reading yet according to some suggestions of colleagues here to work out, to strengthen that protection that is a fundamental element for us, it is the constraint of the son qua non of this law to protect the dignity of man, the dignity of the family and, above all, the existence through the right to a home. On the legal text itself, we could say a few suggestions through several articles, so Article 3 here talks in paragraph 3 about craftsmen, I said that no one here mentions the OPGs. We know the dangers of blocked OPG and OPG carriers. We read that somewhere around 30,000 are blocked and it would be good to put the OPGs in the same category here in article 3. FINA will be the main moderator of this entire project, except, of course, it will achieve a very high turnover or profit per year by intervening in such transactions, which is of course a legitimate thing. And the question arises, and the question arises, is it that at this moment FINA has been capacitated to do all these things? In addition to all the jobs that FINA does daily and those who do a little work and visit FINA often see that there's quite a crowd on the counters, that people are overworked by officials and officials, they're pretty nervous because they have to do a lot of these jobs, which is understandable, and now we're giving them this task of helping rescue the overindebted people. Likewise, when it comes to the Commissioner, of course, someone must be a Commissioner but we cannot be taken from the impression that in this way, as the colleague said earlier, a certain caste of people is created, so the people who will now be able to have a nice, easy job like the notebooks, such as lawyers, and who will make good money on this whole job. I repeat again often in the debates we talked about when you get a notice from HRT that for the unpaid two wars of 160 kuna, the total debt you grow to over 900 and some kuna, when you factor out what the elements of that debt are you see that the least you have to pay for your debt to HRT, there are most different VATs and, of course, the services of law offices that obviously the system that we want to establish is very good and brings them a very nice constant, easy profit. We also see that inheritance enters the mass that will be subject to bankruptcy, which is the same thing to discuss. Should the inheritance be touched? So it's neither a profit nor a debt. So our opinion is that we should consider whether the total assets subject to bankruptcy should also be entered into a well-intentioned inheritance. And Article 45 is the key thing to ensure, to leave certain means enough to live, which means enough to live, it will probably be left to the discretionary evaluation of each judge, which again leads to doubt that it will be done realistically. And, of course, the protection of property in paragraph 3 is a key thing that may in some ways still need to be developed or further enhanced. With these things this is a legal solution in first reading for us acceptable and the SDSS club will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105138	Thank you. We have one replica reported. Dear Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105139	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you mentioned that this is actually a palitative law. In medicine, we know what a paliatical law is. It seems to me that this law is an anefinem for many of our people. And you've counted well 320 and more thousands blocked but you didn't mention not only unemployed but also those who work without pay, and even in companies where the state is a majority or part majority owner. When you were talking about banks, you said that 200 billion kuna is on savings in banks that operate in the Republic of Croatia, and it should be a little bit not cunning, but let's be wise to say that, in fact, from that savings bank that is foreign owned by domestic savings, 200 billion kuna actually credit. So we're lending ourselves, our savings are actually, but through banks, they're crediting people, even those who have a bad credit rating, etc. In fact, foreign banks don't invest at all original funds to lend our consumers, but from such a large savings, they would say 200 billion kunas that they credit and then share the profits from what we know is, but they also share bonuses on people who are blocked, and that's where the bonuses are shared. It's sad, it's embarrassing, and no one can do anything to the trustees in the form of banks, and you're talking about television and telecoms, etc. But no one can do anything to these banks that we know what they've been doing to Frank, etc. It can't end, it's amazing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105140	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105141	Comrade Grubisic, you are absolutely right. I would sign this replica of yours in all elements. So unemployment is one of the main reasons why we have this state of debt, and I said that somewhere around 150 thousand men, men are recorded as overindebted. It's tragic that somewhere around 75 grand is unemployed. So, it's not people's fault that they've lost their jobs in one period of their lives, that the market is the way it is, that the labour market is, so it's unregulated, rather harsh, neoliberal concept, and it has its own price that people don't get paid, which the managers act rather arrogantly in relation to their obligations to workers. And by doing so, this group of 70,000 overindebted people came into this situation, not by their own fault. Banks are a special story, it will be an eternal topic of whether to touch, whether we have the right to talk business and business banking logic or not. I think we have the right to talk to the very fact that these banks that are the daughters of some major banks in our domestic market, financially have multiple interest rates, multiple stricter terms of interest and positioning their financial instruments than their queens in Italy and Austria. It gives us the right to ask the National Bank to finally put order into this kind of bank lending. Perhaps then you'd be rid of the different Swiss and the mass of these overindebted people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105142	The word now comes from the justice minister, the respected Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a few answers to specific questions that, therefore, the OPGs are inside, if we have to specify that, but they are absolutely inside and refer to them as natural persons. So it's not a problem at all, the urgency is to be if it's not clear enough, we'll sort it out. The capacity of FINA, right now, is the only institution that can do this job. The Swedes have a very similar system, they also have one such agency that handles even more than we put the FINAs here. The alternative was to go to one network of private consultants, but by the time we established them, by unifying them, by establishing a body of surveillance, you have no other solution. You can have a third option and that's to go directly to court. And wherever there is, it didn't turn out to be a good solution. So FINA at this point, we talked to them, they took part in this, they say they have the capacity and they can handle it. You've seen the fees and they're put really to a minimum, they're even saying that it's below minimum, that's to talk about. But we think they're our added value, and since we already have a financial agency, we need to use it as much as we can wherever we can. Commissioner, look, the Commissioner is once again a duty which, let's not have illusions, all people are dealing with something to earn. I mean, he's not gonna deal with it, a very small part of people are gonna do any work from some altruism. It is up to us to establish the primary criteria to be people who will work professionally and who will guarantee that the rights of the debtor and the believer will be respected. They will be supervised by the court, so the court has the main word and the last word as well as everything else. Let's set up a better education and control system to make it as good as possible. But we don't have another, we don't have another solution again. It's like we're saying we're not gonna have bankruptcy managers, you've got nothing else. Inheritance. That's always the question, if you're me, you and me as a private person, you owe me 100 grand, I owe you 100 thousand kunas that I can't pay back, inherit a million, is it okay to pay back that 100 grand? I think so. So you understand? That's the legacy because you accept it. Look, if it doesn't pay you back, you won't accept it. If that's more debt than claim, you'll give up, no inheritance. Life-sufficient assets. There's been a lot of debate. We went first by applying the Law of Social Welfare, etc., but then it turned out that it was quite a rigid mechanism that might not have been individualized to the end. And we wanted to, and I'm aware of that criticism, and it says that we wanted to give the court a greater opportunity to individualize. And of course, in practice there can be a deviation. But if you go again very hard and hardly, then sometimes you'll do even greater injustice. So we wanted to, what our idea is to put forward framework criteria for the court to decide on. But it's not the same if your child is going, whether he's in college, whether he's in Zagreb or somewhere you live, if you understand, and it's impossible in advance, so it was an intensity. And we did, and we talked about it with the unions a lot and on the board, and we're going to figure out a little bit, but I think it's better if she stays a little more discreet because if we give her a strict prescription, we're going to have a potential problem. But it's a matter of discussion. I mean, that's one thing you can't really say that's better. The only real estate. There is no system in the world that will free you from the obligation that the property you put in stock must be put on sale and sold nowhere in the world. Because you took from someone X something, money, you signed a contract that if you can't get that property back, it's being charged out of real estate. Now to establish a system that would absolutely prevent it, we can, but that means that each one, if we talk about a bank or private with success, will require it from the state budget. Because someone has to pay him. And there it is, I know how hard it is, but you really don't have a solution. There it is, the relationship is concluded, it's consummated on one side, and if we legally interfere with it and say, "Now you won't be able to fulfill this part." I mean, this isn't maybe popular, but that's the way it is. [[Intruder Stazic: Minister's time.]] So here we are, here we go, but we can still work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105144	We have a replica on this exhibit. Dear Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, at first, you made me happy when you said the OPG was inside, but I'm kind of not worth reading, but in Article 3 I didn't see it. And then you said later, you said later if it wasn't that it would make it right. And that, I'm a little bit, a little doubtful because this kind of reminds me of that law a little while ago about consumer credit when the OPGs were, they weren't in there, too, were they? And then in a week's time, the government's gonna put the O.P.G.s in. So, my people, what kind of approach is it that these OPGs of mine, our farmers, are discriminated against and placed as citizens of the second row, and we know that 70% of them are blocked, we know that they can't do the spring seed, we know what kind of situation they're in, that I'm not repeating that whole history that happened from the very beginning and that we're witnessing the destruction of the village today, and now it's not in this law that would solve the most minimal, the basic thing. Please confirm whether I'm right or wrong, if I'm not, I better not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105146	The reply to the replica of Minister Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105147	So I don't know right now whether you're right or wrong, but let's put it this way. It's an emergency for the O.P.G. to be inside. If you read Article 3(3), you see what is considered by the consumer, therefore any natural person and OPG outside these activities, and the OPG does not perform them. So we're at the point where we've turned on the O.P.G. with this, and that's the intensity. Given what caused your suspicions, which caused that doubt, obviously we have to make it a little bit more specific. That's why they serve two readings, and that's why they serve these exchanges. So you're right that the O.P.G.s need to be inside, we want the O.P.G. inside, we think they are, but so they don't cause any doubt we'll specify. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105148	Continuing the club debate. Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We all agreed in these previous discussions that this law is necessary and the only thing we can prove, in which we can show regret is that since 2007 it took so long to pass it but as it is said better than ever. The Croatian Labour Club will support this law in the first reading and the first objection we really have on this law is that we have not made one deep analysis of who has those accounts and which of these 320,000 blocked citizens can assume that they will go or request personal bankruptcy. So up to 10 000 kunas have been blocked by nearly 140,000 citizens, from 10,000 to 100,000 kunas and more than 100,000 kunas have been blocked by 42,580 citizens. We said that for sure everyone who asks for a personal bankruptcy and anyone who gives him any instructions about how to fulfill all his personal bankruptcy needs to be in one problem because as far as we're saying we're going to unify applications for that personal bankruptcy, every personal bankruptcy is going to have to be very individual and it's going to have to be handled with an extremely, extremely big concern. This is exactly why the question is raised which is the basis of the debt. If we say that we have 140,000 citizens with a debt of 10 000 kuna who cannot declare a personal bankruptcy in this case, if the total debt is 520 million kuna, these citizens remain out of this. They probably asked for forgiveness through another mechanism. But these 140,000 citizens, up to these 100,000 kunas, are deeply concerned because there are about 400 million kunas in them, and they refer to the state. No matter how much I read this bill, no matter how much consumer debt goes to the state, it remains as long as it doesn't settle. I said earlier in the replica that I was worried about this publication of personal data and I am really thinking intensely about informing the creditors that the consumer has opened up a personal bankruptcy. I hope that by the second reading, maybe we'll all think enough about it and find a quality solution. In the out-of-court procedure, therefore, the consumer must state the list of assets, the question has already been raised here, which is precisely what enters that list of assets and ministers, I think we should define it, the creditors and the demand, the reason for the bankruptcy process, the amount of income from the employment relationship and other incomes as well as their amounts in the previous 3 months. Since we have said that each bankruptcy is personal, the question here is what are the other receipts, whether there are maternity benefits, disability, personal disability, children's allowance, and perhaps it would be suggested to add to the other income tax benefits, and I think that we would then remove all these other benefits from the base of some social benefits. We should list members of the rope family, so I would suggest that we put here members of the rope family who live in a joint household and those who are required by law to maintain the consumer. I can have two kids, I can be obliged, these two kids don't live with me in a joint household, and on this list I have to present the monthly overheads. And I don't see why in a bankruptcy, as you said before, the debts are mine, not my children's debts, and if one of the narrow families that the law implies lives with me in a joint household, then I don't see why all of these members should be listed and I think it would be wise to list only those members, therefore living in a joint household plus the ones that the consumer by law must maintain. We said that a public call is being published on the website of FINA and I come up with a big problem here, and it concerns Raiffeisen cooperatives, or our citizens who have loans to Raiffeisen cooperatives in Austria. Do they read FINA's web pages in Austria and whether they are like believers, and they are believers following which of the Croatian citizens has opened or asked to go bankrupt. So, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I have a certain debt to Raiffeisen's savings company in Austria, I'm insolvent, I can't pay more than 90 days and I owe more than 30,000 kuna. Under this law, I'm going to go to FINA, fill out all the forms that need to be filled out and declare a personal bankruptcy. My believer is Raiffeisen Savings Association in Austria. At that point, they'd allege that they were my believers with that debt that I think I owe to that Raiffeisen savings company. At that time, therefore, the Commissioner of the FINA asks the creditors to submit certain documentation with the main and secondary debt. And I ask myself this question whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose creditors are the savings-credit cooperative Raiffeisen savings-credit cooperatives from Austria can declare bankruptcy and how this will work at the moment and whether you think that FINA will make good and quality correspondence with Austria, or with cooperatives as creditors. Because I think if that's not possible, and we leave all of our citizens out of that consumer bankruptcy law that we've ignored one big category of people again. Article 16 states that outside the court proceedings it has failed if a believer initiates or pursues proceedings for the purpose of forced enforcement of the claim or if he explicitly and unequivocally declares that he is not in agreement with an outside of the court agreement, and in that case, the consultation shall, without delay, issue a confirmation to the applicant in a failed attempt to conclude outside the court agreement. However, paragraph 4 of Article 18 states that outside the judicial agreement there is no legal effect on the credentials with which it is not concluded. I'd like an explanation. If we were just reading Article 16, it would look something like this. I've got 10 creditors I owe, 9 I can make a deal with, 10 I don't. He goes in outside the court, he doesn't agree to an outside court deal. He's still doing what he thinks should be done. Did she succeed or fail outside the court settlement? Because if we read Article 18(4) then it turns out that outside of the court agreement there is no legal effect on the non-constitutional credentials. This means that some kind of outside of the court agreement is concluded, but there is no legal basis for those who here did not want to enter into this procedure. So, I'd like to ask you for an explanation. And Article 40, if the consumer does not have enough property to subdue the credentials, the court will decide on the opening and conclusion of the bankruptcy, and will decide on a proposal to exempt the remaining obligations, provided that the application is made, so that the consumer is free of these obligations. Which is here with taxes, given that taxes are exempt from exemption, which means if I have a debt, and the debt is tax. I don't have the property, the bankruptcy procedure opens and closes, and the debt as such remains in the status of that citizen. I'm afraid about these Raiffeisen banks for one more moment, and that's why they're different believers, and if there's a distinct right to real estate, then the court gives a reasonable believer six months to earn it, sell it. If the believer doesn't do this real estate becomes part of the bankruptcy, at least that's how I read it in this law. I am afraid that in this way, and provided that Raiffeisen is accepted as such by the believers in this Consumer Bank Act, we are just giving the green light to the property within 6 months based on a decisive right as soon as they arrive at the courts and what is happening at that moment, so with this consumer of ours that Raiffeisen is a savings cooperative, let's say a single believer. So let's be honest, let's just say that it doesn't apply to him. We have another problem. Credit guarantees. So a lot of Croatian citizens are bail guarantees for loans and they have been executed accounts from which they are charged, so monthly anunities from the basis of a loan whose user is someone else. If I'm the one who took the loan, and my bailiff pays that loan, I'm the one who's opening a personal bankruptcy. I ask the question, so if in a personal bankruptcy, let's say even in a non-judicial settlement I can reach an agreement with my believer does that mean that my bailiff's account is released at that time, or does that guarantee have to declare a personal bankruptcy, too, because he's in debt on the basis of the guarantee? As far as making the trades, I have one grudge, and that's next. So here we say that we will enable consumers to carry out their crafts and to enable them from the bankruptcy mass to use equipment, machines and anything other than real estate. Now we're in a strange situation. We have a consumer who is in debt and has declared bankruptcy because he bought the property in which he built the apartments and is an activity in which he deals with renting these apartments. This property will not be removed from the bankruptcy so that it can carry out further activities but, for example, one doctor who is free of interest and whose apparatus costs much more than this property that he deals with in renting apartments, we will extract it from the bankruptcy and, for example, enable that doctor to continue to carry out his activity, pay the monthly rent for the use of the apparatus in bankruptcy and therefore make some profit. Which means that we have put one category of citizens in an unequal position again because if someone is engaged in renting apartments and has raised a loan so that these apartments can be realised, so that they can earn income and profit then I think that if we talk about further carrying out the ability to perform crafts or any activity that we have to put in the same position all those who want to do so, and they have opened up a personal bankruptcy. We also have a problem with the employees of individuals they gave as individuals for the expense of their business entities. These debtors are slowly coming because of the economic situation in Croatia for collection. We know they match their personal property. What if there is no personal property, and the debtor is on about 2 or 3 million kunas? Does this mean that the bankruptcy procedure will be opened and closed, and that this debt of 2 or 3 million kuna, since it has no assets like that, will be deleted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105150	Thank you. The minister answers the word, Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105151	Thank you very much. Here again is the answer I can give now in a hurry, and we'll do the rest in time. So I think it's wrong if you let yourself take a constant number of blocked citizens as a reference number. There are a whole series of citizens who are blocked that realize existence regardless and believe it won't go into this, so it won't, that their option won't be consumer bankruptcy, as unfortunately you have a part of the citizens who don't do business at all on the market and they don't have anything to block. And they, we don't see them in statistics but they really do exist and they may have a bigger problem than some of those. So that's why I'm saying it's one number that can be our indicator but we can't just manage it. Secondly, 30 thousand kuna is not a condition that you can go into this program, it's just a presummation. If you're so long, more than 90 days, then you can always go. If you owe less then you can prove you're insolvent. So we didn't put it as some kind of limit below which you couldn't go. The narrow family, in fact, it serves for the following, not because it would come down to what you have the right but to primarily see that you did not abuse the right because then it would be checked that you, me, transferred the apartment a month before and then went into bankruptcy, or initiated the procedure. So that's where we care, and that's where they're related where we can work out the cancellation of such a contract, or legal work. The Austrians, their problem, let them follow, and if they don't follow, they won't report as believers and their problem. I mean, you know, why would they be in a different position than anyone else? So it's going to be published with us, the obligation is paid here, whether the believer is in America, Austria or somewhere else hear it that way. Tax debt, it's being asked to question what we're going to do with it. We predicted it was something that couldn't be done, meaning it doesn't come in the light of this write-off, but you know that by the law that regulates the tax issue that there's a possibility of write-offs like that in a completely different procedure, and that's why it's better not to be burdened here in this segment, so that's how we handled it. And again Raiffeisen what you said, so no, it won't be possible because if the debtor, the debtor, is the master of the process, and if he doesn't feel he owes one of those institutions you were talking about, he'll challenge it and there's no sale until that lawsuit is over. So, you know, we don't give them tools to make it easier for them to sell. Next thing you know, the debtor never has to go into this. If the situation is more favourable to him by means of a situation in which he is not in bankruptcy he will not even go for that option. But I'm saying, the debtor will challenge such a claim and say I don't owe it. So it's not automatism to come to you and say you owe x million and now we're gonna sell it and charge it. Guarantees, we haven't found a solution to that because it's actually individual contracts. The solution would be that such guarantees actually take part in the bankruptcy of that original debtor and are actually being asked of him. And here you should see what, but the guarantee, again the guarantee agreement is voluntary, unfortunately you entered into it, you trusted someone you might not have trusted, and you took the responsibility. A very difficult solution, with him being tortured in the bankruptcy law, means not only here. We haven't found the right solution, as far as I know, he's nowhere to be found. It means that this would also apply to guarantees, so that they would come out no matter how unfair it seems, because the main debtor is off the hook, and the guarantee remains. But I'm saying because the legal basis is a different main debtor can go towards the bailiff with his claims. These apartments will not be taken into account because if you look at the person performing the independent activity, the condition is that there is no more than 100,000 kuna debt. So there's no real estate that's gonna be held back, it can be if it's less than 100 grand, but it's real, it's not like that. There are other reasons why it won't happen, but this is already the one that won't happen. I think that's all of what you've set up, but I'm sure there'll be more and we'll be in touch. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105152	We have a few replicas reported, but it's 13.30, so we'll hear them at 3:00. I'm announcing a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105153	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We'll proceed with the replicas at the minister's presentation. First up, she's a colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm a little embarrassed to replicate right now because the deputy doesn't know what we're talking about, but about the number blocked, I agree that they can't be the reference rate we're talking about. I didn't mean when I spoke in my debate that the number of 320 thousand blocked would be a reference rate but that we should certainly take care of that, about the reasons for the existing blockades, it certainly does. And what worried me about in the response of the minister himself, he said that all those who get the receipts, so they don't even have the bills, that they're not all blocked, that they're dealing with each other in another way that opens up another problem for us, and that's also working on black and achieving a certain income that we don't have any records of on this. Anyone can decide whether to go into personal bankruptcy or not. But I think if we know this data and we obviously know it when the minister says it's another extra job. As for the Austrians and that they should worry about their debts or about what their savings have opened up personal bankruptcy, I have no doubt that it will not do it well enough, given that the latest information is going to contribute to the fact that in Croatia, a very, very simple society with limited liability with 10 kunas of underlying capital that are regularly calling for Raiffeisen cooperatives to attend meetings where they would negotiate or negotiate a reprogramme of existing debt, or more about how to take the property than to make a reprogramme, but it opens up again an additional issue of dealing contracts and information to the citizens themselves on the contracts they have concluded with savings cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105155	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there's no minister, and in principle I thought I'd give up the replica, but let's keep it in the record anyway. So the minister said there is a commitment whether the believer in the Republic of Croatia or outside the Republic of Croatia. The key problem, however, is whether the religious relationship, due-religiously, was created in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking about these Austrian savings banks where according to the Foreign Exchange Act, it is clear that since 2001 Croatian citizens have been able to borrow from outside, but these funds could have come to Croatia exclusively through a jury account and had to be recorded in the Croatian National Bank. So if this is the case, then it is not disputed that this believer can participate in this process as well. However, if the debt is not created in such a way, but in a different way the money has been transferred to Croatia, then I think simply the Croatian Ministry of Justice cannot afford to make such a statement. No, no, I'll tell you what I'm talking about. Many, those in charge of money did not come through the jury, but were entered into a suitcase in Croatia is illegal. And such a debt-religious relationship cannot have the same status as the one that went according to the law. And the other thing is, we're talking about donations, we're not gonna let someone donate real estate a month before, so all these properties are basically already loaded. Whether it's a mortgage or something. Therefore, one who receives real estate also inherits obligations. He can't take over the property without a commitment. Someone can't give someone real estate and they can't afford to stay with them. So these are things that are completely clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105157	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, Madam Assistant. So it's very hard not to support a law like this that's trying to solve traumas that, not a few, but hundreds of thousands of them. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will try to make our own comments and suggestions. And I hope that's how we make this law applicable. Because this law, so I've read it a few times and having some experience from some other jobs, etc., and the problems of collecting debtors, creditors from debtors, I don't know how many of these, provisions in this law, are going to go towards some things being solved for two reasons. One reason is that most of these debtors are in a very difficult situation. And even a large part of them are on the sidelines of society, I get the circumstances but that's how it is. But when we talk in general about these obligations, we must not forget that Croatia was in a credit expansion between 2003 and 2008. The state where credit could practically be raised by then, all of a sudden everyone started offering you credit cards, everyone started offering you credit cards, everyone started offering you all kinds of things through Leasing, so you could buy both the apartment and the house via Leasing. So these are facts, and that's why there's a big jump between 2004 and 2008. When you look at virtually from 2008 to 2014, you have almost no increase in credit debt at all, so we have this 6-month CNB report, so when you look at 2012, 2013, so your population's loans are practically exactly the same. So we have detected the problem, not really the problem, but as there has been such a large credit debt, then we should also say what has happened in Croatia in the past six years, so that there is not only the past 3 but since the crisis started. So in Croatia, we lost 220 000 jobs. Also, the number of unemployed at one point increased by 200,000 because in 2008, the number of unemployed was around 175,000, and at one point last year practically came to 400 000. And I think there's the biggest answer to the questions we should have asked. However, what is crucial is whether the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is the same today as when they bought that property or when they were in charge of something else. So the sitting foreign price of real estate has fallen significantly and this is a fact that you cannot escape from’, however, the question is how much the cost of living from the energy price to everything in the meantime has increased and how much some average budget or, often, trade unions can say how much the union basket costs, how much this union basket in Croatia has increased and how much it has reduced the credit capacity of those in charge. So that's what I'm saying for those who were lucky they didn't lose their jobs and they didn't get paid much more. Because look, when you add it all together and in state services, the salary has dropped almost 10% in the last six years. So it's those who were lucky they didn't lose their jobs. Now, what about those who unfortunately had this accident that they were out of work and they took out a loan and practically today they don't have the money to repay the loan, but they don't have the money to cover their regular obligations, living, everyday, and we're just going to take a picture of this government's budget projections and fiscal projections for the next two years. Why am I saying that? So while one country does not have economic growth for at least two years in a row of over 1.5-2%, its citizens will not feel by increased employment or by standard practically this economic growth. This means that, in practice, when we talk about this law regarding the creditworthiness of citizens who are supposed to repay loans, if we have not detected what is the practical number of them without a job, something more drastic is not going to change in 2018. So there will be no change in the number of people who will get a job and who will be in a position to start returning part of the loan. The second thing, when you look at some of these numbers, I usually like to play with numbers, so when you take these 31 billion to 322 000 blocked citizens, then it turns out that the average blockade is 96,000 per citizen. But when you look at this jump from 2013 from 299 795 to 322 000 blocked citizens and when you look at the amount that has grown from 23 billion to 31 then it turns out that those blocked additionally in 2013 that the average amount of that blockade is 324 000 kuna. If you take that for an average apartment of 60 square meters bought by someone there in 2005, 2006 and somewhere between 5500 and 6000 euros, so the total loan should be for 30 years, then you will see that most of these people do not belong to these 324 000 kuna because that 5000-5500 euros is somewhere 40 thousand kuna per year. So what's wrong with this law, no matter what it is, we're going to have to figure out the type of credit, we're going to have to tell those who are blocked, and we're going to have to pull back what's being run away from, and that's the social part because without it, they're simply not going to do anything. And the other thing, it doesn't matter if in one family there are three or four people and they use this property together as a joint household, and the credit obligation goes to one or that family is four and not one, and they have a credit obligation for the apartment. It's different things. And when you look at the basic principles of social policy everywhere in the world, let the European Union directives go, then you will see that this family status is a key factor when it comes to this social aspect. And you when you talk about the law on bankruptcy, I'm not going to tell the consumer but citizens, then you have to take this social aspect because the basic concerns of the state must be social concerns to those citizens who are the most vulnerable, and then those who are able to repay credit in one way or another you put it in certain economic categories. And that's what unfortunately I couldn't read in this law, no matter how hard I tried. So that's it. And the other thing is let's go a little bit to those who do those blockades, etc. The blockade has become a very lucrative business. Now there's a little... utility company in some community that's charging 15 parking spaces there, and there's a lawyer who's sending you a warning that you haven't paid a parking ticket. You have a warning that you didn't pay for this, you have a warning that you didn't pay for it. You happen to have a payment stuck somewhere for the eighties or how many kunas a rtv subscription comes to you. But it says there, if you've paid, consider this warning as if it hadn't happened. But if you didn't pay, then next month you get, you see what that amount is. And when we discussed some reports there the other day, then you saw, about HRT, then you saw that law firms annually earn 37 million kunas on the bill. That's the same thing, you have citizens who are blocked who don't pay taxes. They also didn't pay, that amount went up to about 700, 800 kuna, so he got 2.3 warnings. Here's to an hour of 4,5,000 kuna. So, one caste made a nice living all these years on roadblocks. But let's move on. So this whole story should be run by Finn and the courts. Well, look, I, if anything to Croatia over the past 20 years cost her bankruptcy proceedings that were conducted after 10 years and eventually those companies disappeared. I'll never forget in 2001 when I became mayor my predecessors sent a utility company into bankruptcy. Complete municipal infrastructure went into bankruptcy. Three years you lose to convince someone that what the citizens of that city were doing, so the plumbing, the sewers, the pumps, the purifier, etc. can't be the subject of a bankruptcy mass. Or bankruptcys like that. Now these same people should be leading the bankruptcy of Croatian citizens. This bankruptcy if it will not be effective from it any benefit as it was not even in the economy. FINA – an institution which was intended to be shut down. Now FINA has suddenly become a couple of excellence companies in Croatia, the most valuable, everything solves etc. However, let's take a look at the latest FINA report, so let's see what the qualification structure of FINA employees is, and whether there's enough people in every branch to be able to deal with bankruptcy. And yet there must be a certain education, this, that someone might do it. And let's just say in law, and I'll come by later, if I have any time to do that, you have no regulated terms at all that this man who runs the bankruptcy in FINA, the middleman, or whatever he calls himself, must have, which he must satisfy. Because it says, it will be prescribed by the rules. Well, I think if this House makes one of these important laws, then some basic things should know. It is clear exactly what bankruptcy managers should have had to do with bankruptcy. So here in FINA you know exactly what kind of equipment these people have to have. But I said this morning in the replica of the minister and I'm still standing by it, that article 36. The law of twisting is contrary to this law. Why? Because of Article 36. The law of craft clearly defines when a craftsman comes to the problem that can be done, which cannot be done. And therefore, no law on bankruptcy, if we have already established in Article 3 that this applies to craftsmen, even though it does not have a blockade of more than 100 thousand kunas, cannot change it. Article 36 will have to apply. The law of craftsmanship. The register and procedures of consumer bankruptcy are valid. Who's running that register? Does the Department of Justice run it, does Finna run it? This is where it has to be indicated who's running it. So, the register is a register. The minister said that many things would not be seen publicly, but when the bankruptcy proceedings were opened then he must be made public at a given time, that they all, who, because they didn't have to be just one believer, that all the believers knew about it and that they could ask for it. He's saying counseling. Consultations within the meaning of this law shall be considered organisational units of the Financial Agency. It's real. So, let's say some kind of business of FINA in some small place has the capacity to be a consultant for such a complex problem. I doubt it. Intermediate, I've already said the terms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Look, colleagues and colleagues, we used to get questions from teachers at school what the writer wanted to say, so I would also like to say what I meant with my colleagues when I proposed the OIB Law, that a central register was established in the IRS and that all this information was mentioned here except property ownership data which, unfortunately, was not listed through the OIB can be withdrawn into the central register and information is given to every state body that should go. And now it's definitely out of the OIB concept. Article 14 is amended as follows: Debt settlement plan. The consumer is obliged to submit a call for participation in an out-of-court procedure to the Advisory Plan before the publication of the call for participation. Now I'm asking you a question. If someone who has an 8th grade primary school, I wouldn't want to insult anyone, find himself in trouble, as he is able to make a debt settlement plan. How is he able to make it? There's no job, no income other than compensation at the Service of Employment 1200 kuna. And how you expect that man to make a debt settlement plan, and unfortunately, it's probably the most of these 322 thousand. And Article 23 of the Special Account of the Commissioner. Look at everything in this country about a number and it can't be, on the OIB, and it can't be any particular account of the Commissioner. Why? Because it is legally stated that all residents, not residents who have any transaction in the Republic of Croatia, must receive a personal identification number. Therefore, the Commissioner can have no special account, but rather for that one. I'm just asking you to finish the sentence. In order to open the procedure, it shall open an account registered through the OIB and no different. But if you open up the Commissioner's opportunity to open special accounts, then you'll see what joy you'll have. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to say half of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105159	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I must immediately say that we support the adoption of this law and, of course, it's good to go in two readings. This is the law that's the first time, I'm not going to say the law, but the idea, the way, the need discussed at the end of 2008. The Croatian Union Association and then the former HDZ government only had no courage to enter the metrics, but since May 2009. The Ministry of Justice then opened the debate, put out certain drafts that this law was passed and then still in some kind of foundation or strategic document. Of course, it is important for all the public, for our citizens not only for these 322 thousand but also for all those who could possibly come into such a situation, but also for those who listen carefully to how we are solving this problem is extremely important to say clearly what the minister has repeated, which is that this is, to create conditions for developing a system that will result in the creation of opportunities for insolvency consumers to reprogramme their obligations or a new beginning, and enables creditors to evenly settle their search, but there is no coercion to get into this. So this is an instrument that doesn't have the opportunity to force someone to work under this law, to be forced into so-called. The bankruptcy or bankruptcy that today wants to prove itself than this is voluntary. When we discuss this extremely large amount of citizens, 322 thousand, when we talk about 31 billion kuna, this debt analysis that says that between 2 and 10 thousand kuna is 89 thousand citizens, and less than 2 thousand kuna 139,301 citizens that essentially between 10 and 25 thousand kuna 63 195 citizens, or blocked accounts. So up to 25 thousand kuna is 245,000 citizens. These are large numbers, however, by this law, by these discussions and other readings, I believe that it will be ensured and will allow many, very much to be solved, for citizens to get help with these instruments and this law the possibility of many blockades being resolved. And that's what's really important. Of course, the predecessor of a colleague who discussed when he said that both housing loans and other obligations and blockades should be classified, of course we can not put any citizen in equal terms with another, regardless of this large number, that there are also loans resident who are certainly something that is one different way of solving and then the first real estate, the second, the third, etc. A family where only one or three people work, etc. Therefore, this is the part of the job that, in any case, the FINA and tomorrow, the court will be able and will have to go literally and only rightly in general to go with individual cases and deal with it in the best way possible. However, these numbers I have said, which include up to 2,000 kuna, up to 10 thousand kuna, from 10 to 25 thousand kuna long in the blockade are obviously situations that will be much, much easier and easier to resolve if a citizen voluntarily accepts to participate in this future law. And these are extremely, extremely good advantages and this is just another indicator of the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this coalition of life problems, which we are facing or which in a short time have grown in such a way that we have to address the legislative framework in a way that we are going to meet the needs of life and not just the laws that are related to compliance with European practice. What I would like to give in the name of the HNS Club as one note, not as shortcomings, but as one addition to thinking, an addition to preparing another reading to improve certain articles of the law better read them and prepare them so that tomorrow, in the implementation itself, it is much, much clearer and, of course, less rules, and that the law itself is already clear enough. So let's take it this way. The objective of the law, Article 1(1), as the objective of the law, states the settlement of the creditors. We don't think at the HNS club that it's in the first row except for the settlement of the number one credentials to help citizens, citizens who are blocked. So this is still a law that has an extremely large social category and, of course, the calming of the credentials. But I think this assistance to citizens is absolutely not only political but also the essential number one objective of this law. Secondly, consultations and intermediaries, Articles 7 and 8 will take place within the framework of the FINA. Of course, we have already heard in the debate whether FINA and their employees are adequately qualified for advisory extrajudicial proceedings? Of course for certain procedures yes. Again, I am talking about the less likely and simpler examples, but there we should do a diversification within the FINA and clearly define because certain situations when we talk about private personal matters to citizens extremely important existential ones, then the persons who do so must indeed do so in a way that is appropriate for such situations, for such cases, in cases which are extremely personal fates. The third request is the credentials of Article 10(3), saying "The believer should only submit a written statement of his claims without credible evidence of the existence of these requests within 7 or 8 days." We think that should make it a little stronger. The believer who wants and intends to charge, the believer who has even blocked the consumer is obliged and it would be logical to have all the rolling documentation because as soon as the blockade has gone, I suppose there is also valid documentation that would be good to deliver immediately within 8 days, because the goal is also to speed up the process. When someone enters this process, a difficult process to allow them to get out of it as soon as possible and not to get into a situation to collect documents for months, etc. so that we do not come into a situation of bankruptcy or how long they lasted, but one of the problems is bankruptcy, we talk about legal persons, because it was not an obligation for the documentation to be served within certain deadlines. So then some bankruptcy managers had neither the possibility nor the courts to make certain decisions because they had to collect, there were certain claims but they had to collect documentation so that the whole process could be carried out. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "One sanction, the only sanction for a Commissioner who does not carry out his duty successfully or against the court's decision or by the provisions of the law is a resolution." We believe that we should also provide for a fine with misdemeanor provisions, because when we talk about this law, then we have to talk about the most sensitive rights and human rights, and the existence and the one who enters to be a commissioner, who helps a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Croatia, he must bear apart from a moral and a certain other possible sanction in order to do the job as much as possible and more responsibly. The sixth, sixth supplementary thinking, bankruptcy mass, Article 41, states that the bankruptcy mass includes the total property of the consumer, so the family home, which may need to be excluded from the bankruptcy mass or, with the express or written consent of the consumer, or find a certain modality that ensures that the right to a home, constitutional right, remains a protected person who enters this process, what, in which way I will not now represent variations, but that minimum right, the right to a home that has to be protected by those and the Pos, etc. Seven, the exception to the sale of real estate, it is said that the consumer can propose to exempt property from bankruptcy, but perhaps it should ensure that the Commissioner must warn him of this possibility or that the property needed for the housing is completely excluded from the bankruptcy as before. Here is an emphasis of good work that we also have the Consumer Protection Act, i.e. consumer lending, which we have greatly strengthened that information by the banks, i.e. the creditor to citizens where we really need to be sure that a citizen who enters this process and, firstly, out of court, is guaranteed the right to complete information and there is no situation in which to speak or have a fine writing or something is said, because we must make sure that the citizen does not have to and absolutely and should not be fully informed but that at the moment when he comes to discuss the participation of this law tomorrow, he must receive complete and true information, and we, as legislator, believe that we should have that possibility secured. To carry out the activities of Article 47(3), how the consumer will carry out the activities during the verification of behaviour if at least one property is not excluded from the bankruptcy of the machinery, equipment, material and other activities, we are in trouble. So we've secured him the machines, but he'll put that machine on if that machine entered his bankruptcy mass and there's a possibility of blockage and exception. In the end, he will be able to work, approach, and the real estate will go to the creditors, so that he can be assured that he can really have 100% conditions that he can work qualityly and come in enough to satisfy the believer and normally continue to function further in the future. The relevant consultations of Article 57(4) of the provision is unclear because of the questions that are raised by appropriate consultants authorised to teach financial rational behaviour? This is the same important issue concerning information about the Law in bankruptcy of its rights, obligations, etc. But we also discuss counselling and we need to think that other than citizens who are going to enter the process that this law is participating, there are citizens who might come to advise on how not to get into trouble. So, when we're doing this well-conceived law, let's take a step further because those consultations are essentially behind those who are currently unfortunately in big problems, but also for those who can avoid it tomorrow. I think it'd be a good one and a great one anyway. And another point, the reasons for the shortfall, Article 58(2), a possible nomotechnical error, i.e. in front of the word "convicted" instead of the word "confident" should be the word "user". So, once again, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, we support the adoption of this extremely complex law, the required law, I stress once again for the public that the minister has stressed the law that no one commits to entering this procedure, but I believe that especially for that part of the citizens between up to 2 thousand kuna, up to 10 thousand kuna will certainly be made possible in addition to these consultations and that people of all these blockades are really getting rid of it. And, of course, we stress this law that he primarily refers to citizens rather than to the self-sufficient beliefs. So this is to help consumers and citizens primarily and only then to the believers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105161	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Vesna Saboliæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, I absolutely agree with you in this part where you stated as a goal that you should change, or in the first place for the purpose of this law, the help of the citizens should be put in place and only second place the settlement of the creditors. I also agree with you that the family home should in some way be an exception, i.e. that this law should provide for the protection of the first property, although we have heard that this is not possible, but I think a few proposals that have been discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105163	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105164	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I couldn't agree more with you. And I want to point out one more time, so here in the first place is protecting the interests of the citizens and then the believer. And of course I must once again confirm that this process that the Government, or the Ministry of Justice and the preparation of this law, has made with one broad and public debate that has long, long cooked and no one has had the courage to put on paper is something extremely good. And no matter how many dangers there are in any case when someone enters this process, surely this law is an instrument that will be easily solved and it will be easier to get out of that situation, the most difficult, life-threatening, existential, not just the person who has to enter this process, but basically the whole family. And this is a sensitive issue, and once again, I will use the opportunity to stress and invite the ministry to really prepare well in terms of and counselling and responsibilities of FINA employees, because this is not just about lawyers and economists, and I think that here and a part of that psychologist should absolutely be part of some team that should help those who have to apply tomorrow because they don't have another way out and help those who could possibly be in trouble tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105165	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105166	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, not only did the last government not have the courage to pass this law but she could not and did not want to secure the funds because to achieve this law it is necessary to provide certain funds in the budget which, as stated above, will be provided in the budget from legal aid funds and then we see for the next and 17 years which are significant amounts. That's one side. So I'd supplement your thinking, but equally, she also didn't know how to pass this law. Because now HDZ is asking a number of questions. After all, how this, as it were, will be asked questions, something that the average citizen knows perfectly but the HDZ does not know. Which doesn't make me personally because he doesn't even know how to run his own finances. Well, that's what got the party down. And what is yet to be God's permission to confirm, that the verdict by which HDZ will have to return for an existing verdict if it becomes a powerful 5 million fine and 25 million looted money. Then he'll really need it,... additional knowledge of bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105167	Please, please, colleagues and colleagues, please continue in the spirit of this law. Minister Orsat Milenic, Izvoilte Minister, called for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105168	Thank you very much. So, I'll thank you first for all the questions, regardless of because every question points to a possible problem and if we find the answer now, we'll have a smaller problem later. However, the issue of home rights extends through more discussions here. And I think that maybe what is contextually put into something that is not so much put in accordance with both the Constitution and the European Convention. So the right to a home, of course, exists. There's also a right to property. And these are two opposing rights sometimes where there's a principle of proportionality that will... But the right to a home isn't absolute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And never has the Strasbourg court established him as an absolute right. He made it very clear that if you've pawned your property, you're no longer in it, and you haven't returned what you've pawned, you have no right to a home anymore because it weighs on each other's rights. So that's the legitimate goal. There is also a right to property that must be protected. So we can't leave absolutely from home protection and actually ignore the interest of the believer. And let's not always look at the believer as a big bank and a big system. Believers are all of us here, believers to our employer, believers to someone who has remained in our debt, etc. So these are two interests that are often conflicted and where there is no absolute. So we've been trying to reach a balance here. But I repeat, it's impossible to say and give absolute protection to the real estate that's being pawned because someone has assured by his will that this property will be sold, whether it's the only home or more if it doesn't pay back the claim, or debt. And that's the first thing we have to do, it often bothers all of us because in practice we see a big system versus an individual and then we feel some kind of injustice, but really. The individual took the money, signed it, what's going to happen? And that's something that means where the different religious people are, it's a really specific situation. As much as we humans can look differently but it simply doesn't exist, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. So it's not coming at all as far as we're concerned that it puts absolute protection here in this law or in any other law without saying what it would mean for young families. You say that you don't have any more... loans in Croatia, just no more, then it's over, the offer is over. There's just nothing. And finally, to say that, we'd all pay out of the budget because someone signed it, the state said you don't have to go back, they'd get the state out of the budget, so from taxpayers. So I just think that we need to be very careful when we're reading the concept of the right to impression because it's being misused too often in public speech, etc. Here we kept on that account but it has to be balanced, it's not absolute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105169	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. We are always glad to see you here and to admire what Slavons say about all the problems arising from certain laws, this time it's a law called consumer bankruptcy, let's call it that, even though the previous speakers here said there might be some kind of a different name for this law. In addition to this law, there are certain discussions, proposals that are certain citizens and associations and all those interested in sending to the Ministry of Justice in connection with the resolution of this problem. One individual, I won't speak the name and last name, I can say the initials of J.S., says this: consider a way to allow debtors to be paid off from another pension post. All those with sufficient funds or assets in their account should be reduced by the amount of debt in order to use the money from the second pillar. It's a better solution than by law to drive debtors into the street or on the street. Staying without the only real estate is a dangerous way to solve a problem. And the section accepted-unaccepted writes accepted, so the ministry as law-makers accepted that suggestion. Well, now I don't see in the legal regulations here in the articles that it is so and can these money from another pension, my last report was that I have in the second column of 200,000 kuna, it was the last report I got, I haven't been getting a report in a few years, I don't know what's going on, but it said that I have somewhere over 200,000 kunas that I might be able to use for a return that sits behind my neck, etc., and I even have one in Swiss francs but well, I paid it off, it was a car so it's no longer hanging, but more some other credits. No one, I don't know that there's anyone here that's exactly credit-free even though our old people said don't go to the bank and don't take credit, they'll always cheat on you. And that's what our old people knew. It's not a 25-year-old bank in the Croatian state, but there are banks from Austria, and people knew it well when they go to the bank for what they want and what they will be. This is the law as someone said here a smart palitative law. I said he was ante fine, so for people who are on the air about their financial situation and he's kind of prolonging the agony that's going on. Only that, nothing more, lasts from 1 to 5 years of agony. Why it prolongs agony, so because it remains a state of state and society that, there is no change in the best, there is no increase in GDP, there is no new employment. Unemployment mostly remains the same. Banks do their business with loans just like they used to. With us, interest on loans is twice as large as in the countries of the European Union. We know that 5.99, in Europe you can get any credit for 3% of the interest, we have a minimum of 5.99. They're still bragging about how they're doing a free credit account. Don't tell me. And that's what we have on public television ads, commercial TVs, how they're doing a free credit bill. And when I was buying the car, they charged me 3%, so 3,000 kuna at 100,000. That means I bought anything, property, property that costs a million kuna to pay 30,000 kuna for the credit account because it was fixed 3%, there's no reduction if the amount is higher. Imagine, to buy a house of 130,000 euros, pay 30,000 kuna to the bank for the credit account. Well, since I can't give you 30,000 kunas, put it in the wars for 20 years and 30 grand, and then I'll pay interest for that credit bill too. Well, somebody really played a game, and he assumed it was a banking industry. We have a mortuary industry now, the other day I heard there was a tourist industry, we have a banking industry, insurance. We are an industrial country, a real industrial country, all become industries and banks and tourism and undertakers, and now we have a mortuary industry and it is now developing fiercely new law. That's terrible, and the insurance industry I'm not even talking about. Who are the greatest believers in this country and to whom do our people owe 25 billion kuna? Number one says co-worker here. Clearly, no one makes anyone have a cell phone and makes huge bills. And indeed today, when we see that there are twice as many mobile phones in the Republic of Croatia as the population, there are about 10 million of them, and there are 4 and 200 of us, if we are not in the meantime, given this exit from Croatia as Israelis to Babylon or Egypt, otherwise people, but they no longer move as in economic reform only one goes away and family stays in Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. No, no. That was '65. The years when she was, now everyone and the family and the children are leaving, so they're leaving together. That's sad. So, on 4 million Croats 10 million cell phones. So, on average, each of us has two and a half cell phones. And then here's the situation where you owe the calf to the operators the most, the biggest sum, the biggest sum of money. Then the banks go, which is interesting on top, on the minuses that people have, I also have a family situation that one of my family is constantly in red and constantly has interest on that red, and his personal banker naturally shares a bonus at the end of the year because he took and tightened interest on that money that came to him at the end of the year for a reckoning. So, bankers have a permanent profit and extract capital from the Republic of Croatia, and managers share bonuses based on red. So those people who are in red based on their torment and based on their tight interest share bonuses, not on the real money being made, by the banking industry, by working in the banking industry. Now you have the illegal work of the RBA savings bank that sat down on the premises especially as Cain said in Istria and Primorje where he counted 1,400 objects that were, 1445 that were taken away in the Istrian county, so a definitive performance was done. It's very clear to me, he wonders why in the Istrian county he's doing the justice of the chica chaka and he's doing it so strictly. Well, because Istria is attractive, that's why it's done. Well, of course there aren't in Slavonia cases, no one's going to buy an old house with a mortgage headed the way home. Well, that's nobody, but in Istria, and yes, that's where it's done both in the coast and at sea. There is certainly more than average enforcement cases, especially from this illegal operation of the RBA savings bank. We've seen reports on both public and commercial television. Banks were misjudged, so the creditworthiness of the debtors, so they shared, and sometimes with the premeditation that they would come for payment, even if they were mortgaged, or as it is said by the exact law of Croatia. But with all that, look when I was buying one apartment then I put a mortgage on the property, the bank, and she still asked me to sign her insurance company and her life insurance. So, I had to become a member, and I'm not going to speak the name of the firm now, so I'm going to be a member of that bank that's working with that bank and life insurance for 40 years. So, from the day of the loan, another 40 years of life insurance payments. See how much guarantees or guarantees are, whatever you want on one loan of about 20 thousand euros, 160 thousand kuna About the law? [[Intruding Batinić: My colleague Grubisic, I would like to hear a little bit about the law we are discussing.]] Well, that's all. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Is this about the law? So it's about the believers all of it. And what about the debtors, and what about the debtors? Poor them and with a law like this, it's just a delay not to say guillotine. It's just agony and the duration of something more extended. That'll get more commissioners, then courts and so on. The Prophets will never be cut off, but neither will the Kuna, no. It's just that maybe they'll postpone their claims and nothing else. He says the minister himself is the mortgage that exempts completely, completely from this law. So we don't have anything. If someone signed the contract that mortgage on the house she's going. There's no new consumer bankruptcy law, he's not saving things. So, about the debtors, about the settlement of general forgiveness, about the Hungarian solution introduced by Prime Minister Orban, nothing at all. We're trying to somehow be a wolf full of sheep in number, and it's not going to work like that or we're going to fly in, I don't want it to be, I don't want it to happen in Greek syndrome, and we're already in debt slavery. And it's just our patience and endurance, I guess, until the water gets to the bottom of the mouth itself, that we don't have what it might be. You have the Blocked Association, it's, they represent 300 and 20 and several thousand citizens. You have the Franak Association, you have 30 says thousands of O.P.G. as a debtor, you have 25, we actually have all 25,000 craftsmen. Mr. Milinkovic here is talking about 70% of the OPG. I don't think that figure is correct, I think it's smaller, but it's also 30,000 farmers as debtors who are ahead of a charge or a forced charge, etc. It's quite enough to make our agriculture feel very good. I'll come back about the creditors, so after the teleoperator, the bank, the HRT. HRT which now intends on every car, since we have little insurance to introduce a radio fee in the car, which is apparently right under the law. So anyone who registers the car will already have to pay a radio fee on the technical examination itself. There's little money, and we got a very bad report about payouts on HRT, so I guess now we should get Mr. CEO some extra funds to spend, boast, etc., starting from the hotel in Houston to the hotel in Dubrovnik. And other things, from 40 to 50%. And then we say that we believers must realize what they have provided. Do they have to or do they have to listen to the voice of the people or do they have to listen and see how the people live? For if the destruction of those who trespassed in debt befalleth, then all these believers and they shall break. Are they even aware of that? And we know well how they are created and how debtors are created, by losing their jobs, by not paying them their monthly wages, and even when the employer is a state or a majority owner of the state, and by paying them off on black as some drivers in companies pay, so 2800 minimum wage and remaining on hand, and then contributing to health and pension cuts. And so we have in the end if you live to be 65 years old then a minimum pension. And then how he's ever going to raise a loan, how he's going to pay a TV fee, how he's going to pay utility taxes for the plumbing, garbage transportation, etc.? This law in this first reading of the HDSSB club will accept. And you know why? Because we are not losing hope that we will succeed, not in agony, but finally end it. No matter which government was next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105171	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Gordana Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I must say, you said in the end not to lose hope, but the way you spoke on behalf of the club, you're doing everything you can to kill that hope with everyone else. And I would like it very much that when you speak, either on behalf of the club, whether individually in this assembly, you finally stop speaking out of your mind about certain things or completely twisting facts that are irrefutable. Or at least take an interest in them. You said there was absolutely no progress in this country, no recovery, and all the indicators in recent months say that economic recovery is finally coming. It's true, slowly but it's coming. Not only are government members talking about it, but economic analysts are talking about it, both dependent and independent, however you like. So I'd like you to look at some data related to the decline of imports, about the growth of exports, to look at some accurate employment data. You may have 6100 young people who, thanks to the guarantees for young people, and thanks to the laws that we have passed here since the beginning of this year, have employed 6100 young people indefinitely because employers have taken advantage of the opportunity we have given them by freeing them from part of the contribution. So that doesn't mean anything to you. Last year's employment of 40,000 new employees doesn't mean anything to you. In February of this year, more than 1,000 people were employed last February than it was last year. This may seem to you, these indicators, growth in industrial production and everything else, so these data may seem irrelevant to you, but these data are important and these data show that they still agree with them from the European Commission that recovery is easy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105173	Thank you, fellow Sobol. Replication response, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105174	First, your government needs to deal with the State Statistics Service. Is there 60 thousand employees or not? Well, we haven't got an answer yet who's right. Is Mr. Mrsic or the State Statistics Institute? Furthermore, when you talk about imports and exports, please don't tell me, because Slavonia is puking from imports that are especially carried out on agricultural products and on food imported and you and her former government and everyone who has destroyed Slavonia and Baranja. Next, come to Slavonia and Baranja and see empty villages where there are no children to enroll in school because they have all moved to Ireland, England, Germany and everywhere. Slavonia has 100,000 inhabitants less by 10 years from 2001 to 2011 and even now for the last 3 years your government has 50,000 inhabitants less than it had three years ago. They're your indicators, that's what you're saying, go into the world and see. Now go to the container right here behind Radic's street and see, go see the beggars here on Radic's street. That's what you see, and don't tell me the nebulises of your government that you do all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105175	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105176	You're telling your colleague that banking, and so far you've talked about banks themselves, their position and behaviour were created in the 18th century, but banking in the most general sense goes all the way to antiquity, and modern forms of banking have developed in Renaissance Italy, where even the name of a bank is, because first these money deals were going on at the bank, on the bench which is on the Italian bank, the bank itself is the word bank. Otherwise, I could agree in a good work with you on what position the banks themselves are taking, but this depends greatly on how much they are essentially given the space to act in this way. I think that this government may not have achieved one in Europe exactly, so even now we have a deal with banks, something that seemed impossible in other countries. I know that in national contexts given their origin and global influence, it is not possible to correct all these consequences of what we are discussing today. If it were a different economic system, which the banks imposed and the states that made it possible for them, they wouldn't be talking about this bill today. And I wish we weren't discussing this law today, but it's a necessity, it's a normal consequence and a good and voluntary response to the abnormal state we've been brought into. Which is influenced by someone else's, and we had our homework a few years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105177	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105178	My colleague Ingrid, I think you'll agree with me that it's all policy and purpose. Politics called for Hungary, i.e. Prime Minister Orban also spoke to the banks and told them that I would impose a 70% profit tax on you, they said we can't deal with 70% of the profit tax. Because you can't do business? He says we can't. Then leave Hungary. No one's gone, no one's bank, doing business for 30% of the profits. How much is the bank's profit tax with us? 50% is even more different. So, I have this place for as long as you want, but no one thinks of it, nor has the courage to take it, not only courage, but I am also afraid of the external influences that hinder it in politics, external influences from Europe and America. So, you're not going to make those things simple, I mean two of them, but you wouldn't want to be free to talk about it. No one has that. And as for the banks, thank you very much for the information when they came in, before that was a trade, so I'll give you a sheep and you'll have me corn, 200 kilos of corn and you'll have my sheep. So it was the first trade. Then the Phoenicians invented the money and then it started. As one of my colleagues would say to you, one of my colleagues will not speak now, Doctor... for a successful operation, he said and the Phoenicians solved the problem a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105179	Thank you. Ada Damajanac replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105180	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, here I am listening to you all the time and not just today, I see you immediately raised your line, you don't even know what I'm going to say, but it's okay, all the time, and not just today, so almost no law, no government move, no debt forgiveness, no personal bankruptcy, no pre-election deals, and no youth employment without starting a working relationship is okay with you, nothing saves the situation, nothing helps the citizens, it's all for the purpose of an election campaign. So here I invite you to make a better suggestion, to set an example, or perhaps to give examples, given that you have been in power in the county for a long time your party, and to show the example of Slavonia how this can be better done to help these people really who have acquired circumstances or for any other reason become debtors. I'm glad you said in the end that you would support this law and I would say don't talk so negatively all the time. You said you weren't losing hope, but with this kind of speech, believe me, you're killing everyone else's hopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105181	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105182	It's obviously my fault for you at the SDP for losing hope, not likely. And besides, you wouldn't even let me lift this plate, it's a dictatorship of proletariats, it was called that before, and we can say it now, even though I have a replica for every answer, so I have the right to lift a plate until you do, as they say. But given your thinking and ideological composition, that's the real dictatorship of the proletariat you're talking about. 2,000 people have taken advantage of your debt write-off program, 2,000 people, to 4 million Croats, 2,000 people. What is the perception of poverty, not just perception of how poor people in Croatia are, do you know? 33%. What's the perception of poverty? 70%. But it's 335 who are really poor. And you wrote off, you in your agreement with some banks, etc. Your Minister for 2000 Croats, it's pure deception, pure fraud. You were talking about 70 grand, 60 grand, and in the end it turned out to be 2000. Furthermore, when you talk about young people and youth employment, when you talk about employment for a certain year for 1600 kuna, of course it was a certain help to young people, and when they did so many did not want to extend, they went to Ireland and England and everywhere. ... So now it's 2400 and it was 1600. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I know how much, what you're saying to me. So let me say mine, but you obviously have this mental set of ideological dictatorship proletariats. Therefore, no young man will be able to create a family, neither can he marry, he has to raise a loan for the wedding, he has to borrow for the wedding and enter into a relationship with a bank he can't get back, and then he has to pay back, just to get his wife back, because he can't get it back. Don't get me into your stories, your thanks to your government has gone too far. And do you see how the people live? ... You swim in the clouds. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105183	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Comrade Grubisic, I suggest you continue the debate with your colleague outside so that we can continue the individual debate. Vesna Saboliæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105184	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry to say that I'm a little disappointed by the text of the proposed law. Of course, I will speak only for the purpose and with the intention of trying to influence some things if it is possible until the second reading. In fact, I am not satisfied with the first name of the law as well as some colleagues who have debated today, and I hope that in the second reading this law will get some name that will be, there will be no law on consumer bankruptcy. So he's carrying one, is that we're all consumers, that's a fact. However, it is also the fact that many in personal bankruptcy will come under special circumstances and bad luck, fate or whatever you say to me or by placing bad products on the credit market in Croatia. What's important to me, I think that we should be much more committed not to the balance between debtors and creditors as Mr. Minister said, I advocate a certain imbalance in favour of debtors, of course, because it's simply not possible to get a balance in which we would be satisfied with each other in this situation. What I think especially needs to be taken care of, the economic situation in which we have found ourselves and where the debtors have found themselves. The largest number of debtors, we've heard everything in front of us and numbers and what's the most about but most of all it concerns citizens of the so-called. middle layer. Everyone who deals with society, social communities know what a society and a state means to weaken the middle layer in the first place. We know that there will be no progress if we don't have a wide and stable and many layer of society and we need to make every effort not to let that middle layer slip below that line called poverty. We know that there is a dangerous number of people at the poverty line, and that is why I think that we should stand up for a certain imbalance when it comes to this law and because it is brought into this crisis period where our society and the state are in place. According to the data, we should also talk about the situation as well as why we're in this whole situation. Perhaps we should mention the situation that we discussed when we talked here about Swiss francs, about loans in Swiss francs how it happened that 24 Croatians were gone, that 24 Croatian banks had disappeared, how that foreign banks had come to our market so directly, how we had recovered from the pockets of taxpayers all those banks and then sold them cheaply to foreigners. And then these same foreigners were able to deal with the public right away, they could cut interest rates to get as many committees as possible. I mean, in fact, we have to consider all the objective circumstances that many debtors have put in the position in which they found themselves in order to become the subject of a law like this at all. I think you yourself said in the bill of law that it must be taken care of evenly distributed to the believers. I think the most important thing is to make sure that the debtors get out of the situation to sell out all their assets, i.e. to enable them, or in a certain way, to determine some moratorium so that they can get out of it themselves and start, to pay off all their debts. It seems that the equality of the credentials here is a key issue, not the legal protection of individuals and their families, i.e. citizens in the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees us the Constitution. I wonder how the Constitution guarantees us that if we can find ourselves in a situation where everything we have is taken away from us and that in principle they are taking away their business ability because they are getting someone who will lead them and sell out their property. I say for the present situation, it would be much better to extend law-making until we find a solution. If, as a state, we've helped to resuscitate banks, in the recovery of entrepreneurs, if we've forgiven debts and entrepreneurs, and we've helped defenders even, and many others in the state, I think we should discuss and that in some way the debtors are being rehabilitated where, of course, the courts estimate that this is feasible and that this is possible and that it won't disrupt relations within, relations between the believers at the end. I think that simply the Croatian state must take care of this huge number of people, not only because of their debt, which is huge, but because of this psychological feeling that causes the very fact that 322 000 people are blocked, that means that a million and a half people are at least in one non-exit situation. It might be good to give certain guarantees or to secure some funds or to prolong, whether it's a moratorium on interest, but somehow we need to find out, without immediately selling the entire property. For five years, it's basically an instant sale of the entire property of citizens who are used to it. And today we talked about having a specific culture at the end of the creation and construction of apartments, houses and homes. First of all, I think it's important to protect people who have come into a position that they have to go into personal bankruptcy because they've lost their jobs. No matter what they took loans with interest rates that are not common in other countries, no matter what, but all those who have lost their jobs are not their own fault, they need to find some special benefits. Here I suggest that until the next reading, of course I commend, and it is very good that we will finally get this Law on personal bankruptcy so that people eventually know that there is hope and when it all fails, but that we need to be more committed to resuscitating the debtors and that they are paying back their debts and not forgiving their debts, but to enable them, which is, of course, the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105185	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Here you go, Hansel Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Wessna, I've replicated your saying when you mentioned the word balance between a believer and a debtor where you sided with a debtor. I think this law is well-conceived, that it should be equal to all and the faithful and the debtors. If this law had arrived too late because after 6 years of recession of all the problems that have been encountered by society, it would have been better if the economic conditions had been better if we had discussed this problem. As far as the security of all citizens and all debtors and creditors are concerned, they must be based on precisely clear laws. The value of this country is based on whether or not we are implementing laws. What you're asking for is a prolonging, the law can't make a prolonging, but every interested party owes to its believer in a plea bargain... more. I think that here, most often in our debates, we transfer responsibility to the government, according to the motionr, according to the law, and we don't bring any moment into the system of debtors and creditors and use the regular procedure that every law requires means by judicial means. I think the court here is of great importance and I believe that in all these procedures where objective reasons are if both persons who were debtors were left without a job that would otherwise act. Here, first of all, we need this law that needs to be passed as soon as possible, to make it easier for a large number of people to get out of these problems as soon as possible, but by respecting court and law. Without it, this is all Utopia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105187	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Sabolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105188	Thank you very much. So by this law, we are already introducing a new legal norm and in a certain way derivating other legal norms. I think since the law's intensity is to solve the problem, then I think it's much better to help in a way that the debts are being paid back, so in our interest it has to be and then there needs to be some help from the state. So if we could resuscitate private companies, I think we can also resuscitate private persons when they're in a situation where it's not possible. I advocate that the courts decide, but this commissioner is going to have a hard time doing this job better than the court, so I think there's somewhere to open up a space for prolonging and for more than five years when it comes to unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105189	Thank you. Tomislav Žagar replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105190	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sabolic, I think you and I differ in understanding the spirit of this law, so to speak. So this law, in my opinion, neither promotes poverty, nor sends a message that obligations should not be paid. So this law primarily, which the minister has repeatedly explained, and we kind of like that explanation, it actually allows citizens to get out of one frustrating situation, to run out of everything and to stay out of debt. So, the point of this law is that if citizens already have to pay their debts and if they remain regrettable for the purpose or for something else, but still not to stay with the debts, they can have a new beginning and that they can start living normally. In that sense, and the equality of the believers when you speak, at least that is how I understand it, that equality of the believer goes to the hand of the debtor, and not in terms of equality to make it easier for the believers to pay their dues, but that the debtor would not, that the believer who is in a better position, pay the debtor, and that the debtor remains in debt to what he or she does not manage to repay even part of his debt to another believer. That's how I realized it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105191	Thank you. There's no answer. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105192	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of the 7th century B.C., we will remember, the Athens-based Grand Reformer Solon abolished debt slavery and removed the stones from the real estate because these stones were a symbol of duty, confiscation and property and departure of owners into debt slavery. And of course, as much as I think the minister is doing great things, we won't be declaring him our Thessaloniki right now. But what is certainly a comparison like the stone that was removed from the countries then so government this proposal and I believe that we will find the strength to recognize all that is good, perhaps regret all together why it was not brought before because the stones that press the noose I speak around the neck of these overindebted people. And what I said this morning, I'll do it again. Really how bad fate, how much mental illness, trauma, people don't see the way out. They say they envy those who have nothing. I wish we had nothing, they're fat below zero in that debt. How did that debt come about? I'm sure it's an irresponsibility of a religious-debt relationship for both of us. And now, to me, this is a bill that resuscitates such consequences, and there's room and room to talk, what other colleagues have been saying and here's colleague Vesna Sabolic now but also others, let's see these causes. But here's the government except for this bill before this, that program, the new beginning, the write-off of debts, what the fellow Sobol had just said earlier, listing only a small part of what the Government systematically corrects not to do, that the overindebtedness of citizens and their personal bankruptcy does not come and preserve their assets that they acquired, the property they inherited from their fathers, grandfathers and grandfathers. So there was, there was irresponsibility and malignancy with those who forced them to, who misrepresented things to them, and there was also such a general social, there was both such a social and political climate that taking the loan was no problem, that real estate could be easily acquired, and that the receipts would go and increase. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case. What's good with this is sending one message and that's what these people are asking to be helped in that situation. They can't get out of that situation on their own. Many who can, so this is the law that we have said good and voluntary, who do not see, who should help them with all this. They'll be used by this law. And that's a good law. Of course, as the minister said, it's not a magic wand. He requires certain discipline, but it's a man who sees the light on the way out of that tunnel. And unlike other countries, even in Europe, and even in one Germany that is very restrictive, it may be worse than the one that, or under the heavyest cautels, passed a similar law by the United States, which, America, is preceding this institute. In the very beginning, they knew what kind of structure they were creating that they would create these people. It's a ruthless battle, a competition where there's no place for you to be or a winner. No middle school, or you're a loser. And that's our problem, so we can't copy such an economic system. So they already had a regulation at the time and in their constitution where all federal states are explicitly authorised to pass equal laws on personal bankruptcy. So that's something that's supposed to be, and that's what worries us the most. Those who have made certain remarks about how this will happen, how it will be, whether it will be possible for the man himself. Some others speak but he puts himself under tutorship even though it is a helper. So we see two conflicting things, such two fears, and the law gives an answer to the middle of it. So no one can help you unless you first decide to help yourself. So, there is a possibility that creditors and debtors are negotiating, because such a debt-religious relationship, a long-term situation does not go either side in favour, or even in itself, or in the very believers who simply want to clear these things up. And it comes and this law makes it possible for these people, I mean extremely rational and very religious when they realize that there is no longer any further and that this kind of debt-religious relationship should be interrupted and it should end. So we have two phases essentially of procedures, two phases, or two species. The one with the property and the one with no property. So all debts, i.e. all evidence of this, must be prepared, so the evidence, therefore, that the procedure itself goes quickly, without delay, because any delay would be only prolongation and would not make any sense at all. And what is therefore the believer and debtors agree, and this is the prerequisite of the agreement to go before the court, but before the court they do not sign the bianco their solution, or the settlement, the solution of their problem, because we saw and rightly so, these were fundamental objections in pre-chasing agreements that some wise debtors, or to God's debtors, and the religious believers agreed and there were fictional investigations, we should not pretend to be crazy, and then the court had no opportunity because it was the wish of that law to go, to avoid the court, to avoid the court not to be burdened and to have these proceedings go quickly. However, just by realizing such abuses, this bill makes it impossible to do so. So this is one law in which an individual will be allowed and on a very relatively short period, some are even 7 years old, so up to 5 years old, that he survives to go to a new beginning. There's been a lot of talk here about homelessness, the right to a home. There's two things to tell, and there's a lot of populist I'd say without argument talking. It sounds nice to be invulnerable at home. And please, nice while we're here discussing someone who doesn't have a home, enters our home. And I ask you colleagues who said that the invulnerability of home you want that person who has no other home but has just entered yours, is that invulnerability at home? So let's let the people figure out what we're discussing. But I'm still standing at the point of view that there's a way to solve the situation and what the minister said I'm a little bit of a cartoon now, actually it's not a cartoon thing that we had in the war while bombs dropped women went to the market, came home and someone else possessed her, especially if it was other nationalities. No more in the house, no more 20 years, no more in the house, 10, 15 until those items got rid of it. Then who was talking about home rights? Well, we're not going back in the long run, and we've got current problems to solve. And what the minister says is different. And there's still room for those people, and I was saying it on the board, and I think the government will accept it, so we still have unfair systems where someone has secured their property, so they don't secure it, but they're going in to solve their housing issue, buy the property, and the bank becomes the owner of the property, so that's the famous fiduciary, and the bank remains the owner of his apartment, his real estate, or anything, real estate, until he pays off and the last kuna. That's what we find unjust. So, without abolishing that institute, it is necessary to find a measure when it becomes a clear injustice because we also have in the existing law to repel all legal transactions across half. So why not apply the institute by preserving perhaps fiduciary ones, because on the other hand, some who are burdened with the mortgage, they envy even those with fiduciary property because their debt has increased even the value of that property. So then, by supporting this law, I have to especially highlight, find and remove those elements, those institutes that create the situation that, by now, the government has reacted with these francs, but there's still room. If you bought a real estate worth 500 grand for seven years, eight years, your husband and your wife's family pay off, and after eight years you owe 850 grand. Well, it's not worth anything then. And it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105193	It's time, co-worker. Thank you. Replica, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105194	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Antičević now on what you said about home invulnerability, I don't think it's a very good comparison because you're here, someone enters your home, and so, quite the public is sensitive to the situation in Croatia. I support this law, and I believe that the minimum aid is also welcome and needs to be helped by people. But it's not a light at all, unfortunately, I'd like it to be as few cases for this law as possible. But let's just say it honestly needs to be helped. But watch out, how many judges and bailiffs pay loans for people who got in trouble so these people can stay in their homes and their apartments? Maybe some of you have that case, I have it myself, and I'm not sorry that... I'm in a situation to help, and maybe I won't be tomorrow. So it's a rather sensitive society because of the state of the country that has its reasons and beyond some political debates that can be less good or more good. I think we need to be sensitive to this question, that we need to sort out a whole series of laws to somehow balance people who are really hard to live today. If we conduct policy on such cases, I don't think it's good, because then we can get the wrong idea and send the wrong message here from the Croatian Parliament to people who are in serious trouble. If we really want good, then let's just admit it's hard for all of us to find a way out with these legal solutions, and that's not a bright spot, unfortunately. We are going to try to start an economy and put Croatia on our feet no matter which government is headed. It's not a political message right now. It's more human. And then it would actually be better for all of us, and then we can see in the political ring who's better when we get out of these situations. And we're gonna need time to do it, all together, no matter what party that party is in power now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105195	Thank you. Answer, colleague Antičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105196	Of course, the prerequisite for a solution to the underlying problem is growth and employment. But I can tell you that the injustices of this kind are just that it's in a small number and it doesn't stand out, and I'm sensitive to every single thing like this, and by supporting me, don't plant it on me that way. Because if this is how we say home invulnerability, then one such example that I have told you is that those we should and should protect by keeping in mind the principle of solidarity should help you. But what this bill is based on, but also other laws must be the principle of responsibility and solidarity. And many governments didn't want to make citizens aware of their rights and their responsibilities, but to keep them in some kind of subservient position so that they have them in their hands for different things. There should be a clean relationship between citizens and the state. First it's a clean bill and then it's gonna be a long love.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105197	Thank you. Minister Orsat Milenic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105198	Thank you very much. These are actually, I've appeared before, so the first question is the name or the name of the law. Why consumers? The European practice is that consumers use the term precisely in this sense, even recommendations are to make consumer laws. So it's in that context. We also have the Consumer Protection Act, which also includes a broader concept and corresponds to this. However, if, like any law, it is also a political act, so we need to express our own position here, and since from the debate and it turns out that in fact one need to review the law, called the law, we are completely open here. So we're going to consider it as a possibility, I'm not for personal bankruptcy because the legal persons are persons, but in that context we're going to open and consider it, I just wanted to explain why, why it is. Again quite often, I already spoke right to home, constitutional protection, excellent but the Constitution also has the right to protect property. If you took someone's property and that's money, he has the right to protect himself from giving it back to him. And that's right, equal right to this, and let's not always look at the believer as some big evil system that stands on the other side and brings us little ones into an unequal position. Believers are you and me. Each of us are daily believers and the task of the state is to ensure that we collect our claim. And there it is, it's both constitutional and human equal rights and you can't give one too much and then tell the other there isn't. Especially if someone went voluntarily to pawn some of their property, etc. There was a citizens' recovery, it's an idea that sounds great, but let's just say what it means. If we have 30 billion or as much as we said 20 billion claims, that means 20 billion from the budget. Believe me, all the believers would be happy if the state were to resuscitate the debtors, everyone would sign it tomorrow because the state would pay for them and they would charge for what they would never charge for. But there's just no way to do that, and I don't think that's an option at all. By this law, he's voluntary and it's first and foremost, no one has to go into it, but if you choose that option clearly from the beginning to the end you know what you choose and you take it right, this is on your desk, you don't have to use it. So he's not obliged and it's an important, crucial thing about him. You will use it if you consciously estimate that you will get something with it, that you will profit if you do not, you will not go into it. Why would we go into something that's worse for you? And no one's making you go into it. But if we were to now, so now we're saying that we help debtors to get rid of them, that's just impossible, that would be ideal, we'd all be happy if it were possible, there's no more debts, nobody owes anyone but that's impossible. And the intensities of this law, and that is not so, it regulates a legal relationship between debtors and creditors, the state regulates its intervention to mediate and help to reach a solution, and that story actually ends. He's not the law that solves the social problem, he can contribute to it, he'll help someone solve the social problem, but he's one of the forms by which the debtor who wants to go through a particular process will be freed of debts and the believer will get what he gets, the believer will get what he gets, how much he's left. You have a believer who's going to get 0 kuna and we can never say that this is in favor of the believer, it's not at all because you have a whole series of creditors who are going to lose anything, and maybe we'd go through this differently, we'd wait and that's why it's 5 years maximum. Countries that have had a long period of time, they actually killed citizens' prospects over a long period of time, which should be as short as possible. The tendency is to cut back. It's been five years, it's something you see in front of you, you see where you'll be in five years, after that you've finished the story, you're out of it, and you're out of debt. If it was easy for you, it wasn't. If you think you're gonna stay with the property you won't, but when you're out there, you can create a new value, you can live on something. If you didn't get into it, you'd be left with debts that will go through your interest forever, costs just increase. So these are some kind of, we have to be aware of what the law is, the law has great limitations but also gives great advantages but he's voluntary it's first and basic, he's a debtor available if he wants it, if he doesn't go as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105199	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Here you go, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105200	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've been pretty much talking about some kind of let's call the innocence, the incendiary, whatever you want the believer to do. Yes, that's how you said that, of course, believers when they give their assets, even if the news in that form has the right to return their money, and whether they have the right to treat debtors as it did in Swiss francs, whether they have the right or whether the debtors are responsible for the situation when they remain incompetent, so without a job, whether the debtors are guilty when the incentives are reduced in agriculture, so they cannot pay the debt to the bank, whether the debtors are responsible for the return of capital investments in agriculture, are the debtors therefore guilty of the foreign clause, which is of course prescribed by the CNB, the bank and the state together in one agreement? So, in this total innocence of the creditors, mostly banks, I'm not convinced or believed. The fact that citizens have the right under this law to take or leave it completely clear to us, that is absolutely clear and that is why I said that the HDSSB club will be, because at least some citizens will have the right to choose what you say. But all in the hope that in one to five years, there will be some improvement in this sense that I have spoken of both in the religious and in the entire situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105201	Thank you. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105202	When what you and I were saying actually connects, we come to the same thing. So, if you were listening to the opening, I was just saying that this is the fault of the credentials and that the current system that was based on some kind of debt is wrong and that we have to share and drag the believer into the story. Because if I'm in charge, someone figured he could give it to me, so he has to bear the risk because he gave it to me and I can't go back. And that's why there's a write-off. So if I'm such a believer who's given himself to someone who doesn't have the property, who can't make money and pay off a debt, I'll be left with nothing. And that's what we make possible. So anywhere and I would never say, you know, it's a mistake, the believers are innocent, we're in it together. We, as citizens, were in debt often and more than we should have and the believers pushed us into it. So now we're here to share it, let's share the risk. And because now that he's set up, I'm the only one who has the risk as a debtor, you don't have him as a believer. And that allows you to use one mechanism as a debtor and even the risk. You're always getting worse if you're facing a big system, but that's how it's always been everywhere. But again, step back, let's watch the private relationship you and I. You and I can owe each other something. Is it okay if I have, I keep what you gave me, I don't pay you back and you have nothing to live on? Is it okay, let's say we talked again about, let's say you have, here's restraint, I'm, say, obliged, hypothetical for child support. And now I'm saying, okay. But you can't take my apartment, it's my only home and that kid has nowhere to live. Is that okay? So you understand what I'm saying? These are all relative where we have to look at every concrete relationship and see what. But that's it, volunteering is a key thing and a risk sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105203	Thank you, too. We're continuing to discuss Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105204	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is after the detachment of the economy that the government has implemented and is still implementing are citizens. So now the government is more focused on detachment of citizens. Why? According to FINA, 322 000 498 citizens were blocked on 31 December 2014 due to outstanding commitments. Their debt amounted to over 31 billion kuna and exceeded the registered spirit of Croatian companies. So citizens owe more than the Croatian economy. Three-quarters of the population in the blockade is more than a year, so it's not some sort of temporary and occasional blockade, it's really long-term, hard-core blockades. On the other hand, according to data from the Association of Blocked Debts, they grow by a rate of 2.8% per month. Or every month we have 3.5 thousand more blocked accounts. All this data thus very clearly shows a difficult situation in which a million of our fellow citizens are present. Counting that these previously mentioned 322 thousand owners of blocked accounts have of course their own family. The state reckons that 30 thousand citizens will try to solve the debt problem outside the court, so by settlement and about 7.5 thousand citizens will go bankrupt. When it comes to the total debt, it is important to stress that almost two-thirds of the debt, or to be quite precise, 65% refers to financial institutions and 56.8% of the debt refers specifically to banks. So banks are absolutely the greatest credentials. Of the 31 billion kuna of the total debt of the citizens, 17 billion is debt-to-bank waste. In 2014 alone, the debt of citizens to banks increased by 4.75 billion kuna. What I want to point out is that part of the responsibility for this debt buildup has exactly the banks as the biggest creditors. The minister said about the following in the opening statement and now in the replica of his colleague Grubisic. When creditors give the debtors more than the debtors can repay, they participate in their borrowing, and then they have to participate and at the risk of not paying back the debt. I remind myself of the Bank's profit tax law last January 1st, so in 2014, citizens in difficult situations of life were able to forgive at least part of their debt, primarily because of their loss of jobs and then their regular incomes. This applies, of course, to the write-off of claims on corporate loans granted by banks to companies or craftsmen. In return, the bank is exempting the profit tax. And with these housing, so civil and entrepreneurial loans. So for the amount of debt written off, banks are reducing the base for taxation, so they certainly pay a lower profit tax to the state. I think that, in the interest of banks, there should be a reduction in the loan claim, above all, to the share of the so-called. Bad loans in total placements. According to the Croatian National Bank, the share of partially compensated or completely non-refundable loans to banks in Croatia was 17% at the end of last year. With the fact that I have to point out that the company has passed as much as 30%. When we turn that into absolute figures, it turns out that out of the total of 280 billion kuna loans in the bad category, more than 47 billion kuna were mobilized. So it is obvious that banks are also affected by a situation where an increasing number of debtors cannot repay loans. Another argument that banks should have shown far more concrete will to address their debtors' problems is the fact that taxpayers spent billions of kunas 20 years ago and 25 years ago to resuscitate banks. So the total cost of resuscitating banks between 1991 and '98. the year can be estimated at 31% of the annual GDP, which is what Croatia is actually in a group of countries with the highest recovery costs of banks. It's interesting that the cost of resuscitating banks in the '90s was also the main component of public debt. That's interesting. So it's like '98. In the year, as much as 50% of the public debt fell to debt due to bank recovery. So now is the right time for banks, so to speak, to make amends in some way to the citizens. The third argument is why banks have to participate to a greater extent in solving the problem of over-indebted clients is a high level of deposits of business banks, but also lately the growth of these deposits. So now for a long time the deposits haven't grown, clearly, because of the recession. Here's the last few months they've been growing. In January of this year, deposits amounted to 244 billion kuna, which is more than €6 billion or 2.7% more than in January 2014. The amount of household deposits mentioned increased by 2.7 billion kuna or 1.6%. So deposits are growing again like I said and that is why more banks play a more active role in consumer bankruptcy. Reprogramming credit with write-offs of course part of the principal could solve the problem of a significant number of citizens who have been drastically reduced revenues due to the crisis. Citizens would thus retain their real estate, and I think banks would profit significantly more from the fact that due to the non-payment and non-reimbursement of loans, they would take up apartments and increase their real estate portfolio to real estate that are actually low on the market right now. Unfortunately, so far, banks have not shown too much understanding for the problems of their debtors under the pretext that clear criteria have not been established for the write-off, although we are all aware that the ministry has also passed a rule for that purpose. It would actually be very interesting to know, and we didn't, at least I didn't hear them or know them, how much of their claims to the citizens of the bank have already been written off. In particular, it would be interesting to know what Hypo Alpe Adria banka has done on this issue, which is, if we look individually with our 565 million kunas, the largest believer on the credits of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So to conclude, I support the Consumer Bank's bankruptcy law and expect banks to play a much greater role in the implementation of this law than it has ever been through a reprogramme and debt write-off. If the banks don't have hearing, so if they don't help much more actively in healing the debtors won't actually have someone to place their loans to, or their placements, and in fact that's their basic activity, they live on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105205	Thank you, too. Here you go, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105206	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister. Well, here's what I should say about the consumer bankruptcy bill. He said today the minister all have it so let's have it too, which we miss, better to have some possibility than there's nothing here so whoever wants to use it voluntarily, if there's no other way and there's no more or less discussion today. At the end of January 2012, 211 234 citizens blocked at 13.2 billion kuna. At the end of December 2014 322 500. It's some kind of picture let's say a policy that's been going on for three years and the government can't run away from that that's what happened because it's a sin from the '90s, from '75. or 2010. It's just 111,000 new people, new citizens who are blocked, and the amount of debt from 13.2 billion 2011 to 31 billion at the end of 2014. Only 17 billion. The government will say again what our mistake is in all this. This is still said by everyone in the government the best government in history, never better. We see also these days running around the field, representing various benefits, measures, possibilities, however the results are gone, the results simply deny us. They say the most citizens owe to banks, only in a few years 5500 real estate completed. About 140,000 people owe up to 10,000 kuna. Who is the poorest in these blockades, it is hardly possible to avoid a public enterprise, and these are Croatian waters that very neatly want to block out citizens for small debts, let's say for a water drop, and you can count thousands of them. These are the debts of several hundred kunas that grow in a year by blocking several thousand kunas because they must all be charged, of course the most lawyers. It's just that a man doesn't believe, I'm reading these days, that these payments were sent to Gunja, which was flooded last year, and taps for pouring water, i.e. Let's say for the maintenance of all channels and all that needs to be helped not to flood it. First, here's to the citizens of Gunja. It's really beneath some level of normal behavior, but obviously I'm saying it should be taken care of by those who deal with it. Who's comfortable with this situation? I've already told the most lawyers, and then they're not far away from the banks or other financial institutions because I'm just saying, for example, some small implementation of Croatian waters, you can see what the amount is, and there are thousands of them. You may owe a few hundred kunas, and in a year, it's all the cost of the procedure, with the cost of the blockade, so with the expenses of the lawyers, it's going to rise to a few thousand. And what the citizens are going to do is just let go of the blockade and try to survive somehow. We have simply come to the fact that through and through this law we must look at a single conflict between this great government policy on the one hand and on the other hand that the real state of Croatian citizens that is often described here as debt slavery or misery. The state says so we give you tools to get rid of some of your problems, but these tools obviously fail, simply, but citizens still manage to live somehow. And I'm really surprised sometimes the way we do it with all these blockades, with all the problems, somehow exist. There's so much innovation in there that sometimes you'd be surprised that people tell you everything in their experiences. The fact is that we're in the pre-election year and the government has realized that after three years there is a people, there is a people who have problems. And now, through the politics of some write-offs, he's trying to write off these same citizens for three years their carelessnesss, their unhappiness and no results. These fire measures simply need to put out this social fire in the pre-election year, and I am also looking at the effects of this law in this regard. Because how to interpret all of this that we've witnessed in the past three months. All we can think of is freezing the Swiss franc course. One media fairly bombed-out topic, results after a month and a few days since our debate, and some bankers meet, and the Franak Association, and a protest is announced. So we couldn't make any arrangements. Banks don't give up their demands, they're trying to get citizens on their own model. Citizens try to save their invested money and some kind of existence and value they tried to gain, but they have for it a year. Then it went into debt write-off and everyone just ran in debt write-off. There weren't any local self-government over, utility companies. This press conference was held daily, so it would be said to be one 60, 70,000. These days, 3200. And our minister, Mrs. Opačić Milanka, disappeared, no more in public. Obviously, the measure did not strike, because when you set all these conditions as a possibility a small number of citizens can satisfy it and try to find salvation there. We hear it, so he says it's a good thing there's one. Well, that's good if one's great. It might be good here if there's seven of them and that's something. But let's move on. And I've recently been here along with some colleagues trying to open a story about RBA cooperatives and savings. It is one of the same media very closely followed topics, as it speaks of a lack of care and injustice that the state has through its institutions in some way tattooed. And why is that happening? Because a group of citizens with problems appeared, with their life problems, with the properties they live in, with whom they tried to live especially on islands and in the coast. But there are them in the entire Republic of Croatia, and they find the silence of the state administration, i.e. an institution. They reported the problem neatly, they supplied the papers neatly, they filed criminal charges, they protested outside the Justice Department, they protested outside the DORH, they organised themselves in the association. As there is an Association "Franak" there is the Association "Stop Blocked" and simply no one wants to hear them. And then we talk, talk and try to suggest something, and then we hear today, says the minister I'm not about to declare a moratorium on that. And what happens to us? These people continue to live with their problems, they continue to fly daily by those people from the Austrian savings. They recently appeared on Rab, then filmed their houses, entered their private property until about 20 days ago, and one court ruled out the possibility of which the minister warned you to report to someone for religious relations – a debtor, so that you might try to get out there. For the first time in Rab, a court was declared appropriate to judge the contract between debtors and creditors for the first time. It's some kind of success. Let's move on. What happened next? These people still have to repay loans they can't repay because they got such conditions that they can't pay them off. Many have been deceived right through the system of state institutions by grantovnica where they have been given what they have given, and they have given the house and the terrain as a mortgage for the return of loans to them on the entire zk stake and on all the property. I can't sell property out of it, not talking about interest. The bankers came to Rab and sat down with each individual sitting and negotiating. They still have a loan to pay for about seven or eight years. They tell them we give you a 3% interest per 18 months, a year and a half, and then we'll see. So where's that? And we all know that the CNB has shown itself about it and said they had no right to give such loans through intermediaries in the period 2010 to EU entry, and everyone knows they were giving them. And of course we're waiting for what the DORH says. The D.R.R.H. says, I guess he's in the investigation, everyone's always saying he's something in the investigation, but no one's showing up and saying what it is. Was that okay? or it wasn't okay. Can we find out one more fact? They don't run away from wanting to pay it off. They're not even in Swiss, so they don't have that problem. But there's one other, that I can't get out of that debt slavery at all, given the way the conditions are imposed on them in one country. And now we have a story that has no end. So let's look at this situation with the Cvetkovic family here in Zagreb, which has been going on for several days, for them for five years where people say we overpaid that obligation. But in 2010, the court simply took away the property and gave it to someone else for a much lower price. So what now? They've come to the point that the bodies have to defend their property while our system says there may be some possibility that you might defend it or there's no possibility for you at all, you gentlemen have lost it. So are these ways to solve these problems? And when we propose a measure, there's no interest in her. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105207	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105208	You see a colleague, with such a family and others, it is a dispute between two natural persons to say that the decisions of the court are final and binding. And to this end, especially when banks and financial institutions are a question not to. In your debate, you say how many blocked, how many are there today, how many were there, how many were there a few years ago. A few years before joining the EU, the main objection is that the courts judge, that even the verdicts are quite slow, and that the executions are not working and that the judgments are a dead letter on paper. Proposed team, you pass the Law on public perpetrators, where the most sensitive thing is, and these are the performances. It's always sensitive, regardless of the verdict, it's a powerful and final one. You pull out of court, outsort, try to do it, and we said no, that's what courts still have to do. Because why? Because the public contractor, of course, is a natural person, a private person, though, with public powers, but who is guided solely by economic rationalism, nothing else. While there are certain obstacles in courts and in such procedures, there are certain things to which it is referred. And let me tell you, not only that, you say it's so blocked, it's so much work. Well, you're not going to say that this is the government's fault. Today we spoke of this bill where no one spoke about who created these debts and of natural persons, we did not go back into the past, and you yourself are breaking into the pit you dug yourself. Namely, every procedure, if you know anything about procedures, as fast as they are until all the legal way is exhausted so that someone can move out of the house and you can see for a while with this family you've mentioned for over 20 years. ... Your HDZ men were in power then, gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105209	Thank you. Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105210	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, you don't have to be mad at the data. I only gave a review of the time when you took over and what happened in three years of that government. And you said you'd be better, if I remember correctly. Well, there you go. Apparently, this 17 billion people don't weigh that much. I wasn't talking about the 100 grand that went out of the country, I wasn't talking about having fewer employees and more unemployed. These are your models you've been doing with that great policy of yours. And I said that she came now to face that people of ours you've noticed. Here's the prime minister noticed him in the last year of his term, and there he is, among us, seeing him day and day, visiting people. He says, "Here I am among you." We haven't seen him in three years. And now you refer to it and say public contractors. You've come, the first law you've proposed you've just downloaded public contractors. They got into court disputes, some litigation won. How's that gonna end? Maybe someone will pay, maybe they won't, I don't know, and it'll take a few years, obviously, by our judiciary that you're saying is expeditional. And I've been talking about it today, and here's the law predicting FINA in some part as well as a body where it might work out. FINA was, I say, and I cited examples, and in real estate performance as the intended body since 1.01.2015. And I've been reading the data in three months since it started any requests at the FINA. No local court notice means he announced an auction of real estate at the FINA. He's gone. What does that point to? That there are local judges who obviously see some kind of interest in real estate because otherwise they'd let it go. I'm not going to accuse them but the fact that some houses are. Only some can buy, i.e. Only some can report to the top, especially for these RBA savings, only some can get at a very low price such a property and only some can sell it for a much higher amount later. And now you're gonna tell me it's not like that, it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105211	Thank you. Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105212	I thank the esteemed vice president. So, my colleague, Boric, I don't think your cynicism and mockery of the results of the current government is going to invite anyone in this country to applaud you. You're unhappy that industrial production has been growing in recent months, that exports are growing and unemployment is falling. And as for today's citizens' debt topic, you know very well that nothing happens overnight, and even these citizens' debts have not occurred since 2011, as you said so far. So they date back to the past years, and the fact that in recent years they've been increased because the consequences of your government's work are still felt today and we're going to feel them for a long time. So, just because we all know how you've done years ago, you're the last to wonder how our citizens survive today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105213	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105214	I haven't been able to figure out what you resented me for, except cynicism? Well, it's not cynicism. Why is it cynicism to tell the truth? I don't get it. Maybe my style isn't good for you? ... Well, it's for you, I told the truth, so I didn't make up these numbers and it says that 17 billion more and 111 thousand people have been blocked more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What am I supposed to say now? Isn't that right? That's right! Now if that offends you and you claim that you are successful and that it lasts, that night, it's been going on for three years. So you say nothing overnight, so it's three years already, almost four. So how long does that night last? It's all our fault. It's not our fault. Everyone, some ahead, HDZ, I don't know, some others etc. Well, that's bad stuff. I've already said it once, and now I'm going to repeat here the only thing Croatian citizens are and and we should learn from the Germans is this home budget mathematics. And she says that if you have less than what you had, you're in trouble and you're having a hard time serving your debts. And it's obvious that citizens in 2015 have less than they had in 2011. And as a result, this number of blockades and the amount of kuna blocks that are growing are also numerous that have left this country to survive. And these are the results we're going to warn you about this year because you can't say that didn't happen. It happened during your government, and you said and the people gave you the opportunity to correct all the mistakes that were noticed during those failed past governments. But apparently the results were better then than now, and you can say as much as you want it to be now much better than it was then. But it is not so and do not try to deny the truth because they are written and exist and they simply warn you that you were a highly unsuccessful government, the worst government in the history of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105215	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Boris, the worst government in Croatia, was the government led by Ivo Sanader, which you were part of. Worst! And you know that, and that's why Ivo Sanader is in Remetic now. Otherwise, I respect your desire to disrespect, especially you fellow Boric, every effort in this country to make it easier for people in the most difficult situation. You know fellow Boric that you were responsible and that you were thinking about various opportunities when you should and when you could, when you were at the opportunity of those citizens today, you might be in a difficult situation, but not in such a difficult situation as they are. And that this government, that is precisely forced to bring something that can be called fire and short-term measures, and temporary measures. But I don't think that you as a parliamentary representative should be demeaning, say, the fact that 3,890 citizens have been released so far, so they've been forgiven of their debts. It may seem a little bit to you, and let's say it's not small and that's only the first part because if you follow that problem then you know that the second part is coming, so for that group of citizens who go by other criteria and that part will last for the next two months, and that number will certainly increase. And you can also belittle that there are indications of positive trends in Croatia, and I will repeat that not only we who are in the SDP, and we who are in the government, read serious reports of economic analysts and addicts and independents, so to speak, which everyone thinks that Croatia is coming out of the recession. And the crisis didn't begin 3 years ago, and you know very well that it started in 2006-2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105217	Thank you, colleague. Every Croatian government, every government is a Croatian government and every problem in Croatia is a problem for all of us. Reply to the replica Josip Boric. And please don't talk to the club between the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105218	Each government is the Croatian government so is the vice president. For my colleague Sobol, each other was the worst. For me, the worst is this one. And now whether it's demeaning or not, everyone can take their heart. But the fact is that everyone says that she's the worst and that we've never had a more failed government than this boredom, and that's what the figures are talking about. And now that someone tells me here, we've grown 0.3 of GDP in the last quarter, and in the plan you wrote there the governments you adopted here in 2012 that he would be 5%. And now what? Nothing, all of a sudden we've encountered a sea of problems, there's a story going on, these are the ones in front of us. Let's think of all those excuses why we dropped GDP, why our credit rating is garbage and why we're doing this today, and why the monetization of highways becomes a monetization of public debt, etc. etc. So we have a daily excuse but also new tools to get out of debt. I'm not demeaning anything, I'm just stating the data, and the data says 2011 is over, i.e. In early January 2012, 211 thousand were blocked, 322 thousand are now being summed up, taken away and seen what was happening. How do you interpret this successful government that has brought a tool that prohibits employers, i.e. They should be prosecuted if they don't pay their wages. Here are the workers in Rijeka, TIBO and MID which now, who do we sue, who do we send to jail for not paying workers? State, employer, CERRP, DUDI? Well, that's what it's all about. So you're making laws and tools that no one is following in implementation, creating the effects that you've imagined, and then having excuses and revolution, every law of revolution is doing something better, and the fact is that every day with this power, it's just worse. Here, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105219	They're hoarding some replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105220	That fellow Boric, you asked a good question, what was the government doing in the last three years? Yes, the government was cleaning up all that mess and chaos that came from the last government and also trying to create a new value. That fellow Boric wasn't easy. ... [[The intruders can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105221	Do you need a five-minute break? Let your colleague say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105222	That fellow Boric, as I said, was not easy. The riot was too big, but fortunately getting out of the crisis wanted you to admit it or not. And that's what all the statistical indicators show. And as for how the government of Ivo Sanader worked, which you were part of, so it was all said by citizens in the 2011 elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105223	Josip Boric responds to the replica. One side must be ready to listen to what they do not like. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105224	That's right, Vice President, but every debate I have here is considered cynicism and the truth can't be cynicism. So you're starting to fear your own numbers and it's not good in the pre-election year, you reduce your anxiety, the prime minister tries to make you look good with this American PR, you have to learn a little bit, you can't be nervous, and if we get out of the crisis, the citizens will just reward you, if we're not, if the numbers are still bad, then you'll get the red card and go next, it's such a rule. But don't convince us of something that doesn't stand. And I'm always talking and I repeat to you that saying that clearly and beautifully says, "Don't look back because you're not going that way." You keep looking back, you keep looking at it in 2010, 2009, we went through it, the citizens gave you a chance to correct the mistakes and you committed the same and worse, and that's why you'll be replaced because you have to go understand because you underestimated them, you promised them, the Prime Minister told them I won't let you down, he said on election night, I can't let you down he let them down. And these examples, which I quote, they only enhance that impression in the sense that citizens are truly dissatisfied, and especially ineffectiveness of state institutions. And if someone gives him criminal charges and wants to investigate his business on RBA credit and warns about the illegality of work and has all the papers on it, then someone has to say that, it's illegal or you're the guy's guilty, ie. You got it wrong and it's legal and keep paying for those loans. That's all you're looking for. But I can't even find out in a year. And the prime minister comes and says, it's toxic products, it's interest rates and we continue to do the same. We're still going on the same way, and we've been wanting to move it around for a while. Okay. But if we're looking, let's stop something for a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's see what's going on here. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105225	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if you've written this motion for discussion. Among other things, it says that the debt to the state has increased by a billion to 400 million. And remember that famous list of debtors and how everything would be wonderful and wonderful, how order had become public finances, etc. So the result of why this law is passed is simple because Croatia has lost in these 3.5 years hundreds of thousands of jobs, because there are 60,000 more unemployed. And that's why this law is passed. And when we talk about macroeconomic indicators, you see, it's very interesting that it came after a commendation that economic growth in the last quarter last year was 0.3 of a very sharp letter from the European Commission. And afterwards, the Bureau of Statistics announces a decline in industrial production in January 7%. So I don't know who that data is, what that data is, but the facts are just as they are, making certain people nervous but we can't help it. And when we talk about the successes and failures of the government, the HDZ government has a 12% GDP growth in 8 years, and this government will have a 6% GDP decline in these 4 years. So now I don't know if plus 12 is so bad a minus 6 is so good. If it's so good for colleagues, then let them put a negative 6 in their current account every day and see where it comes from.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105227	If we're going to sum up as many governments as we have, we're not going anywhere. Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105228	That's right, fellow Shuker, we can add up. Let's say we can add up the public debt, but I'm sorry we went this far because this really has nothing to do with the law that's been proposed, but once the data is out, so here, we're going to remember this government for this 150 billion kuna of a new public debt. It's the same as all 9 governments until then. It's also a success. And that's what we need to talk about in this House and in public because some place your money's gone. Now, we say it's growing debt to the state, and it's growing. Let's just say one city doesn't want to transfer money to the state budget even though it's charged by protected tenants and it needs to keep its share neatly and one other part back to the state but it doesn't pay and it's one big city and 50 million kuna is in the story. Why does someone tolerate it? And it tolerates. Because SDP tolerates SDP from doing so. I'm just saying we have behaviors that are allowed for the left, we have behaviors that are not allowed in any way for everyone else. And just in that kind of relationship I say we're also discussing this story of consumer bankruptcy which, at first, I said, if we have to have this law because we all have it, so let's have it. And I've already been accused in advance of being against this. No, I didn't say I was against this, I only spoke widely about this subject in my own way and warned about a problem the minister was silent about even though there were protests with him, in front of the ministry where people warned that despite this law, he would lose his property under other laws. They will lose them and can't get out of it because the state institutions won't tell them what's true, which is true, and that they know how to adapt themselves to that truth and move on. And why you've been doing it for a year is not clear to me. It took a year for the prime minister to say that these are harmful products and that they should be seen from all aspects and that the institutions need... /The speaker has been disabled./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105229	Please be quiet in the hall. You can't concentrate on who's talking, if you're all talking in one voice. The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105230	Thank you very much. So I would first like to thank you for the support we have received for this bill. Also on all the suggestions we've received, like I said, we'll consider them, and everything we can put in, we'll put in. We, I would also ask here for one thing, so this law brings perspective to a whole series of citizens that they will get rid of a certain part of the debt. To burden him with what was before, who was what when he did was completely deplaced and wrong. Should I now start here to say why it wasn't adopted in 2007 when the first guidelines were to pass the law and then start to drag how many fewer citizens would have been in trouble if it had been adopted in 2007 or 2008, '09, '10. So go so far and now analyze and burden this proposal, it is there, what the Proposer pleads and begs to make a suggestion. If you think something was wrong, let's say it's not good, and what I said was all that we're going to consider and appreciate, I thanked you first. But now you come back, because the law is here before us, tomorrow, or when there's a second reading vote, first reading, you'll have a choice, you raise your hand, you don't raise your hand. But not that, it's been brought in, we did this or we didn't do that. It may be for something else but this law too many citizens look at it, too many people will use it and they need it, or we can say they shouldn't. Then let's just say, whoever thinks they don't need the law, they don't need the law, we're not going with him. If most of you are here against him, we won't go with him. But criticizing him and pulling this data. So what I'm going to start talking about is who put in the blockade at FINA. Well, we didn't do it. But I think it's a good measure and I support it and I think it's a good thing it was introduced. I really think she's fine and she's doing a good job, but I'm not gonna come and say that right now because she brought someone else. I mean it's a good measure and we've moved on with this... and we should all pull out what's good, take it and move on, what's not going to go different. But criticism, I mean RBA, you mention RBA, so what we're going to do now is we're going to go watch when RBA... credits, who was in power then, why didn't he stop them. We won't. We have a problem with the citizens we have to deal with now, and I said what we gave in the executive law. You yourself said that the courts started to do at least one example but no one here can order the court to apply the law that exists. The council brought it, no more of it. There was the President of the Supreme Court, ask him why it is applicable or not. The state's attorney is also completely on his own, so you can ask him why he's being prosecuted or not being prosecuted, you understand? We have institutions and they need to do their part, but I'm telling you what we as a government have done for these citizens and each of them has the opportunity to stop that performance until this thing is resolved and we've done it and we've said it and it's there. You're talking about the annual moratorium, he's pulling out only those loans he's actually impossible. To go to all moratories, we can go to all moratories but here's the question of how much it's going to cost us and what's going to be the consequences. If you vote that out again or vote it well, it will be there, but you take into account how many citizens in this country pay back their debts every day, hard and painfully. And let's consider that every time we play, we send hope, a message, it's going to be a moratorium, it's going to be me and what, etc., we actually give people a message, they often get into a bigger problem because of it. I mean, some things we'd all like to do, and here I would love to, but it's gonna cost. Let's go, let's introduce a moratorium, somebody's gonna pay it, we'll pay it out of taxes, it all comes down to it. So fina, you mentioned to fina, fina's the only one at this point capacitated to implement this. We've spoken to FINA, FINA's convinced us that they have the capacity for it and we don't have any other means. So we're a country that's dimensional about what it is and there's institutions like it, that we're going to hire some new 20,000 people now, there's no point, we don't have money for it. So we have to use what we have, it's FINA and municipal courts. We need to educate them, they need help, we need to inform as much as we can, and they'll do it. We want to talk, you mentioned Frank, it has nothing to do with this law, but Frank was a problem five years ago, so nobody did anything. We've now done what we've done, and we'll find a solution, but go back to the past who, what, when, when, did you need to ban those loans, who was then in power, who wasn't, I mean, it doesn't make sense. I'm talking here we have... But the ministry could have always proposed some law, the Parliament could have passed it, as we propose the laws here, as we have now passed the law, so it can be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's not switch everything over to someone else, the regulator, etc., you can. Well, we could have told you guys about this, too, so that's your problem, so I don't know who solves it. We came before you with the law. So this law is there. Once again, I ask you not for us but for the citizens to whom it is addressed, honestly to me as Minister of Justice, it would be the easiest thing not to go with this, really, this is one measure that will burden the judiciary and us in the ministry, it will burden the whole system. And you see how the debate goes, that's good, but we're going to criticize you, so we won't even be commended, and we're aware of that because we're giving people the truth, and the truth is the problem. The truth is, if you owe too much, you'll have to pay it back, you'll have one tough time ahead of you, but the truth is, after that, you won't have any more debt. We tell the believers you won't charge for everything you ask for because you've been unwarrantedly giving credits and they'll write themselves off and you'll never get it again and nobody likes it. What everyone would like to hear is the believers you will get everything, the debtors you will not pay anything and until you make such a proposal, of course, that people will be well dissatisfied. And I say, so what is and we have heard extremely good and constructive and remarks and suggestions. Most of it, all we can put in. I'm going to thank everyone again because it points to support, because it shows that the law is actually conceptual there, that it is necessary, that we should go with it, and here's to another reading we're going to get some things done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105231	Thank you, Minister. We also have a replica of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105232	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said we couldn't take out one group and then do it. That's what you said. Then how did you get out a group of Swiss people and work? And that's what someone's gonna pay for, probably the state's share. See, that's what this is about. So these people don't ask, they don't have in Swiss credit, they have in euro, they don't ask for a course freeze, they don't ask them not to pay for a loan, they don't pay for it, they just ask for the truth, they don't ask for someone to tell them whether that job was legal or it was illegal. Since there were intermediaries, these intermediaries did not pay what they had to pay because they could not have been licensed, could not have had a business here and all happened in one closed circle and in that circle were both public notebooks and some judges and today we see the results. And these problems occurred in 2011, 2012, and so far they last, and many have lost real estate. But then you say we can take these out and it goes, the Prime Minister freezes course, he says it's going to be so good-bye, and here you can't, that's what this is about. The question is why you can't and why you don't want to, and why institutions don't want to manifest themselves, and I asked for the public's attorney to be manifest, I spoke here in front of the club, I asked for a five-minute break, and I asked for you and the prime minister I asked exactly over 60 days ago. There's no answer to my representative's question even though it has to be answered in 30 days. So someone doesn't want to be obvious, and now that I'm constantly pulling it out, I feel like the Croatian institutions are supposed to be silent. Well, our job is to look for some way of truth for those people, they're not looking for anything else. But if you say you can't, then I'll tell them gentlemen please take care of yourself, the state doesn't want to worry about you, you're a special group that's impossible to declare a moratorium even though there's a possibility that you're in an illegal business, so everyone will suffer their sin. Here's what I'm gonna tell them. ... But you can't say that the state can't do anything. [[You can't hear it.]] The state can right here...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105233	Thank you very much. Minister Orsat Milenic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105234	Thank you very much. So, since you asked and my testimony I can only tell you that I'm not in charge of it and I can't give it to you. And these others you've been looking for, I assume you'll get. But I'm telling you again that we technically tried and considered and saw how to implement that moratorium and that we couldn't fit it into the legislative framework. If you have a concrete suggestion, I know you suggested something, but it was inconclusive. If you have anything that is specific and feasible, please make a suggestion. Here I can tell you right here in public if you make some concrete proposal that will be implemented that we will seriously consider it and go in that direction. So it's not at all. You understand? I think here, so normally we want to help all citizens and those citizens in what was illegal, that if I were to go with the logic that was used before I would ask you who was in power when those savings were going through Croatia. I'm not gonna say that. You understand? I mean, it doesn't make sense. Now let's see, Article 65. The law provides for a delay in the execution, right? That's what we said we did. If you have, if you've figured out how to implement this, give us a proposal, we'll sit down, we'll consider it. That's what I told you in public now, and here I can call you in public, it's not at all, but let's not run away from it. Let's put the thing concrete and see it can be, can't be. I said, we haven't found any way to do that under the regulations we have. If we have anything, let's talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105235	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105236	Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs, the usual procedure on Fridays at 12 p.m. but before we move on to a decision on the materials we've processed this week, one notice. On Tuesday, March 31st, at 10 pm in the Small Council, the anniversary of Croatia's entry into full NATO membership will be celebrated. Among other things, representatives of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly from Brussels and the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament will attend the celebration. I ask MPs to attend the event. An exhibition of photographs of our soldiers, a soldier in NATO missions, will be set up in the small council hall. So on Tuesday 31st this month, at 10 am, I expect parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies to come to this date. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we are now going to decide on the agenda points we have worked out. So let's check the quorum. Let's see the number of states. We've got enough MPs and deputies to decide all things. First of all, the proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z. No. 811, the debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes for, 19 abstentions, nothing against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105237	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 812. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, he will explain the bill to us, Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105238	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. The area of nuclear and radiological security in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by the applicable Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety of the National No. 141/213, which was adopted in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU relating to Chapter XV. Energy for nuclear security and protection against ionising radiation. Following the entry into force of the applicable law, Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom of 5 December 2013 on basic safety standards for protection against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation and leaving out of force of Directive 89/618 Euratom, 90/641 Euratom and 96/29 Euratom, 97/43 Euratom and 2003/122 Euratom entered into force on 6 February 2014. Since the applicable law does not comply with that Directive, it was necessary to amend it. Furthermore, some legal solutions provided for by the existing law did not give the expected results and should be amended. The amendments to the laws of the categorisation of exposed workers, the obligation of dosimetric supervision of exposed workers, and the frequency of the health check of the individual categories of workers exposed will be brought in line with that Directive in such a way that a significantly smaller number of workers exposed will have to be subject to dosimetric and health supervision. Furthermore, the model for the acquisition of professional training for the application of radiological security measures by complementary education and the renewal of knowledge will be modified in a way that will be provided by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, which provides additional funding in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of 260 thousand kuna per year. The following amendments to the law will reduce the parafiscal burdens in the section relating to the costs of the implementation of the dosimetric and health supervision, and the training of the exposed workers on the application of radiological security measures of around 5 and a half million kuna per year. The National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security shall cease to carry out tasks for the storage of radioactive waste and used sources originating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the central storage and management operations of the Central Storage in accordance with the European Commission’s observations. The Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste to be established and managed by the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the Krško nuclear power plant, which will be responsible for its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the amendments to the law also allow persons who have completed a university degree in biotechnical sciences and biomedicine and health care to be inspectors and senior inspectors for radiological and nuclear safety. Amendments to the law repeal the Radiological and Nuclear Security Council and lays down that the Nuclear Security Council established pursuant to Article 25. The Law on Nuclear Safety of the National No. 173/3 ceases work on the day of entry into force of the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105239	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105240	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I was in a dilemma first whether or not to participate in the debate on this agenda, and then I got something into my eye and I was convinced today that the Deputy Minister had repeated this in particular about the urgent procedure of the law that we should pass and the reasons for the adoption of the law are listed by Council Directive 2013/59 adopted on 5 December 2013. Not to mention what the deputy minister said because it stops with that directive five other directives. But what is controversial is that the directive entered into force on 6 February 2014. Well, I have to say, that's not true. This Directive shall enter into force on 6 February 2018. And that means three more years. It's a period of harmonisation with the directive. I'm now asking myself why an emergency procedure should have taken place, I'm not getting into some of the coordination problems that the Deputy Minister was talking about here, and I think it's good and that there should be some changes and coordination, but there's probably the other part of the problem, which is what the Deputy Minister pointed out, which is the practical establishment of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre. Why am I saying that? Because the strategy says that waste management means the centre under the term Center for the Management of Radioactive Waste in the first row is about taking over the facility for processing, conditioning, manipulation and long-term storage of institutional radioactive waste from Krško nuclear power plant. Now, it was probably meant to be this easy way for us to come up with a strategy that we brought in at the end of last year and bring this part of the provision for the establishment of the centre. It was also not disputed, but the strategy itself says that when it comes to the location that a particular debate should be held on the location, all specific opinions should be respected. Clearly, we cannot escape that radioactive waste from the NE Krško that we must take over in Croatia must be taken care of. For the first time I have seen that the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection mentions the Šarkezovac military warehouse in the Municipality of Dvor. And that, practically, in 2040, a dump was established. And now what's the point of all this? This is the issue that bilateral agreements between Croatia and Slovenia were established at the end of last year and an extended period of use of NE Krško was made until 2043. Clearly, we will receive electricity from NE Krško, it is cheaper by some estimates, but the question is also when we say that it is currently 38 euros per megawatt hour and that somewhere in 2018 it should be about 30 euros per megawatt hour. The question arises whether this part of the price is included in the price of radioactive waste disposal? It is probably not and it is likely that the same thing should be taken into account when we talk about it because it is a significant amount of radioactive waste. And the second thing I want to say in particular and emphasize the extension of the age of use of NE Krško is the question, clearly I assume that it will work well because it is 40 km from the city of Zagreb and do not give God a certain hararium that could happen and the problems that could be caused in case there are certain problems in its work. It is indeed a very large amount of radioactive waste, and I believe, and I think that within that precisely why I have come to the debate it was necessary to conduct a certain discussion in the first and second reading of the amendments to this law, it is not a problem to get to know the public, to tell and to know the public that it is necessary, that it should be done to say that the possible consequences would not have been agreed with Slovenia by 2043 no Krško and whether we will be left without electricity or possibly whether the imports of electricity would have been more expensive in that case. That's all the things you should talk about. I am afraid that under the EU directive, something else is being imposed here, which I think is not good, that practically we MPs in the Assembly are being real to the kids because I can't interpret it any different in the way it has been said that the directive has been applicable since 2014, and the directive itself is written in 2018. And I think this is an inappropriate way for legal proceedings to come to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105241	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105242	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Cesarek and Mr. Medakovic. And I feel like a member of the Health Committee cheated a little bit, that we discussed it on the Health Committee. If this information that Mr. Tuška has just said is correct, and it seems to be correct because you have not responded anything when Mr. Tušak presented the fact that this directive enters into force on 6 February 2018. So you've silenced us on the board too, and we're a little bit as we're holding, so I need to be a little bit self-critical of these committees at a time when, here it was at half past 10, so the time of the plenary session, so at the time of the plenary session. It was scheduled at 9 a.m., and then it was changed to be at half past 10, so we were in a better hurry to get to the plenary session, and so here's a little bit of the fact that the directive, the European directive, comes into force on February 6, 2018, and now that I've actually raised my hand for this bill, I feel a little deceived, and so I'm going to think a little bit when I vote at the time when the conditions in the Croatian Parliament are coming up, and don't blame me for how much that doesn't be the opposite, because it's more than obvious that you caught us, I'd say at night and in the situation of teatishness, so the lack of time and actually covering the intention of this legislative proposal. About the fact that in the municipality of Dvor it is in several locations so Trska gora as they like to call it even though it was never officially called Trgovina gora but Zrinska gora, the whole area of the municipality of Dvor is called Zrinska gora but I guess it bothers someone so let someone be called Trgovina gora, so many said, although there is a place in the Shop, it is probably by that, but there is a place Zrin and still a day today and it has been called Zrinska gora since ancient times. So, at the location I discussed with the assistant, so after the committee voted out, the Health Committee voted unanimously to adopt this legislative proposal and that the Krško nuclear power plant with an extended lifetime until 2043 and piled barrels of radioactive and nuclear waste is actually now an urgent need to take care of it and the location would be so-called. Trgovska gora i.e. Čerkezovac, a place of former military JNA when it starts from the Castle to the village of Matijevići further towards Kotarani and the borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina but not on the border on the river Uni but on the so-called "Uni". the dry border. Regardless of the location which is relatively carefully and carefully checked, it is not near the river Una, the county of Sisak-moslavina, which belongs to the municipality of Dvor and the municipality of Dvor, it seems to me that they do not have an affinity to accept or approve and build a warehouse of radioactive nuclear ionizing waste in their area. Well, then, we come back to college again, and I won't say the war situation with regional and local self-government units, and in connection with the location of such warehouses, and if I say again in the conversation with the assistant minister, I've got guarantees, guarantees however you want, and given the location, and given the construction of all modern, modern and sub-legal regulations of that warehouse, and given the compensation that a poor municipality like Dvor would be very welcome, to some if we understood some million kunas a year. So I wonder, though, if this million kuna is also enough compensation for what can be expected and what danger the city’s warehouse of radioactive waste was built on. Since the other articles speak about what we say on the Health Committee, we have harmonised and clarified completely, so without doubt and since it is therefore in the work itself with the sources of nuclear ionising radiation, so dosimeters and all that is already good. I'm saying in that good faith, but here's not knowing about this data raised my hand and on the Health Committee, this time I won't do it. I don't think there's any need to talk about further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105243	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105244	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr. Director of the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security, Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it is strange to admit, after Mr Tušak's presentation, which, in that part of confirming the compliance of this law with the 2013 directive, writes that its full compliance, its full compliance, takes effect on 6 February 2018, so for another 3 years, and then somehow acts as an inconclusive need for the urgent adoption of this law. The more we cited the strategy to deal with radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel that we brought in last year, the obligation and the need to adopt the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste of Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. Therefore, since, here we have seen that some special necessity does not force us to adopt this law as an emergency procedure in order to comply with the EURAT Directive. Then it would be logical to firstly adopt this National Programme for the Implementation of the Radioactive Waste Management Strategy and for several reasons. The first reason before this national programme itself would be to draw up a strategic environmental impact assessment which would be a preliminary issue for the adoption of the National Programme for Implementation of the Strategy. That's the first thing. Then perhaps, perhaps, they would be more convincing in changing the model of establishing a centre for the disposal of radiological waste spent nuclear fuel used sources compared to that strategy. So if you had first adopted the National Programme for Implementation of the Strategy, you might have made a strategic environmental impact assessment more convincing in the provisions of this law that are changing the strategy itself. It is unacceptable for this House to adopt a strategic document in October and the Government to send us a law in March or February which sets the law aside from the principle or model that the strategy has prescribed. I therefore agree with my colleague, Tušak, that there was no need to rush on the one hand, and on the other hand there were valid, justified, professional reasons which would then be the basis for proposing such a law that we are discussing in the Assembly today by an urgent procedure. In fact, what I have to tell you is that the law is addressed to a public debate. However, in this law addressed to the public debate, there has been no norm, a fundamental change in this law which changes the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament, we have already talked only there about the need to categorise workers exposed to these radiations, their professional education, supervision, etc. And it was in a public debate. And the change in the model that I'm going to say a little bit more about later was not in that public debate. Therefore, this law did not go through this public debate for me. And when such an important change came out of the strategy's solution, it was then necessary to amend the law and then just refer it to a public debate and hear what the expert public thinks about this decision that was passed by this law. And what exactly is this all about? It is that the Radioactive Waste Management Strategy has been envisaged that the National Institute for Nuclear, Nuclear Security will form a body that will establish a radioactive waste management centre, etc., etc. With this law, we deviate from the solution adopted by the strategy, and this law claims that these jobs will be carried out by the Krska Nuclear Power Plant, the Fund for the Degradation, the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. So what we claimed in the strategy 23 months ago is now being amended by this law. It is questionable whether this fund can be carried out professionally because the state institution is fully professionally trained, the highest institution in the Republic of Croatia that can manage it, and now the question is why we are releasing such a solution that has been proposed to the Institute and we accept the new solution that this demanding job attaches to the fund when we know that the fund has never done these professional jobs before, but for it has been carried out by a specialized APO company owned by Croatia's electro-prived company. We therefore believe that this was the way to go first with the national programme, before the previous study and then to establish this part. Furthermore, we hold that the reasoning of the law given the importance of what we are changing, that we are changing the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in the opening statement is not nearly resolved or mentioned in terms of what relations are at the moment and in accordance with the bilateral agreement between Croatia and Slovenia on the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, on a conditional permit to extend the work of the nuclear power plant until 2043, on Slovenia's decision to provide half of the radioactive waste, etc., in its space. This is therefore not a word of this in the light of which, in a certain way, the reasoning would justify what the billing officer has changed that basic model. On the other hand, there is no word in this explanation, Mr. Tušak and some of his colleague Boro Grubisic were already talking about the phase of solving the construction of the centre in the area of Trska Gora, or as Mr. Grubisic said in Zrinski's space. Since this location is foreseen in the 1999 spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia, but this solution has not been accepted by the Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County until today, nor has the Municipality of Dvor accepted it, and in any of their spatial-plannic documents there is no such location, and we have long mentioned that it is actually this military-storage complex that is in the municipality of Dvor. So, even as we heard it on the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, the director of the Institute said in which the current status of the establishment of the Trade Mountain and Zrinska Mountain is as the future location of that centre. I think there's a lot to be said about that in this law. Furthermore, what is missing or not well processed in this law is the necessary financial means. 260,000 kunas per year are spoken for the implementation of this law itself, however, not a word on the significant means to be provided under this law in order to build this centre for the disposal of radiological waste, etc., etc. At this point, I think that the fund has 172m euros collected from Croatia's 17m-euro electricity sector annually to get closer to the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. I therefore believe that, first of all, the National Programme was to be adopted, firstly to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment, then to establish a bill, explain in the Croatian Parliament what are the fundamental reasons for us to deviate from the strategy we adopted 3 months ago, to carry out this derogation through a public debate with the interested public, and then to make a proposal for a law and to convince us MPs that the solution that we will accept this bill is better than the solution adopted by the strategy 3 months ago in this same Assembly. So you did not say a word about it in the very explanation. Why do we deviate from the model that was planned 3 months ago and now we're building a new model that the construction of this centre takes to the National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security and attaches to one fund, one body that is exclusively designed to raise funds to degrade Krško Nuclear Power Plant in the future when it stops working. Therefore, it was a real business, a real procedure that had to be done, with the fact that no obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union has hastened us to do so because, as we have already established, full compliance with the Eurostat Directive is on 6 February 2018. And in this sense familiar with the parliamentary representatives of the current position of the Republic of Croatia with neighbouring Slovenia in part of the continuation of the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant by 2043, to see if we are still in the position that Slovenia has adopted unilaterally, which is that half of the waste of Krško Nuclear Power Plant will be taken care of in Slovenia, and for the rest of the rest of us we must find a location, which is like, it does not say in the law but it is told on the board, is Zrinska gora or Commercial Mountain, and that location I was just saying that Cerkezovac, so the military storage complex Cerkezovac in the Municipality of Dvor. On the other hand, this strategy, which we have also adopted, would be the basis for negotiations with the local self-government unit to ensure that it is possible to establish that location in Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. the Municipality of Dvor, and then go to changes to this law and then write exactly where the centre will be built. In this way, no procedure would be forced, there would be no legitimate objections, and the government could introduce us to what stage of negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Sisak-Moslavina County, or local communities, because no one is very comfortable in its space as much as there is a storage military complex that may be a quality solution, no one wants to take over radiological waste and spent nuclear fuel that will be there after 2043 or after 2023, depending on when the centre is actually established. In that sense, we at the HDZ Club cannot support it and we will be restrained about this law because I believe there is no reason not to bring it in, but once all those necessary steps are made which are foreseen by the strategy, once a strategic environmental impact assessment is made, it would be possible to discuss this law in a quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105245	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105246	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I agree fully with your debate which is on the trail and the previous two discussions. But what we all forgot to say together is that we have both public and official opinions and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as neighbours because the border with BiH is immediately 500 meters, 1 km from the Cherkevs. I was there myself, so I know the positions well, and the Una River is about 2 km away, so as a border line between BiH and Croatia as a border, so the Una River, our beauty. So if we take all of those to say dangers, and even a subjective idea of a radioactive waste storage facility with a half-time break-up of 200 years and 300, ask God how much, I've already forgotten it since high school and I knew, so that one subjective but also some objective not danger but all that exists next to that warehouse is the question of how both Bosnia and Herzegovina will react to the suggestion of this location that's being spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105247	Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105248	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you have already exhibited as a good topographer the exact location located 2 km from the Una River. However, I do not think that the location is definitely established, although the government's representatives are already speaking quite loudly about the location. Namely, it is neither currently in the spatial plan of Sisak-Moslavina County nor the municipality of Dvor. In order for this to happen, it will take quite enough arguments to convince the local community that this is the most favourable location that is precisely why I have said that it was good that the government had developed a strategic impact assessment on the environment of this Centre for Radiological Waste Management, that it had made a national programme for the implementation of the strategy, because in that document all these questions that you asked me, which are justified, which is talking about possible cross-border impact in accordance with the ESPO Convention, could be questioned, and then have answers to that as well. This is how we hear it only to negotiate with the local community how, why, based on what we don't know without a document that was necessary for the creation of a national programme and beyond this law. We really didn't get anywhere with this law in a hurry, we didn't need an emergency procedure, we didn't even have to debate me until the previous questions I was talking about were resolved, and what you said certainly mattered. This is a relationship with the neighbouring country, as it is clear that possible radiation will not only affect this northern side of the border but also the south side of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105249	Final Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Marian Cesarik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105250	... that Council Directive 2013/59 Euratom of 5 December 2013 entered into force on 6 February 2014. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, the directive came into force then, and by 6 February 2018, all, therefore, legal and sublegal acts must be transposed. So if we don't, then we're in violation. I stressed that the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security ceases to carry out activities of the storage of radioactive waste and used sources originating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the central storage and management operations of the central warehouse in accordance with the EU's remarks. Therefore, it is necessary to separate the regulatory and this executive role. The regulatory role is played by the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security and cannot do this storage work, etc. Council Directive 2011/70 Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, so Official Journal 199 of 2 August 2011 is currently talking about this issue and this concerns the European Commission’s observations, where we are clearly told that we need to separate the regulatory and this executive role. The National Bureau of Radiological and Nuclear Security and has no right to execute, so this is all you've been saying. So it's going to be the executive body, and that's why it's very important to pass this law, and it's not true that we wanted to plant anything on anyone. In fact, we were very conscious about doing this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105251	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105252	Thank you. So Deputy Minister, on the last page signed by Director Sasa Medakovic and Deputy Minister Josko Klisovic, clearly writes. The deadline for achieving full compliance with the EU acquis is 6 February 2018. I went to the directive myself to check out the original document and no mention of the date in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105253	The difference is when it is brought and entered into force and until it has to be applied in the Member States. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105254	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, we can accept your position that it is necessary to separate this regulatory from the executive, or operational role of the Office in the case of storage and construction, the establishment of the Waste Management Centre. However, I suppose we also knew that when we adopted the strategy, because this Euroatom Directive was already adopted at the time in 2013, so that, at that time, it was not some particular reason for us to, why, at that time, did we not, in the strategy, separate the regulatory function from the executive function of the state office. That's one thing. And the other thing is, that's how we're in a public debate about this law without that part, without that part where we establish a fund. Therefore, the original law that went into public debate did not even touch or imply a change of model and separation of this regulatory function from the executive function of the institution itself. So I wouldn't say it was necessary. It may have been through a public debate, as it was said on the board, one of the objections in the public debate that drove the state administration and the government itself to go into this amendment. In my opinion she may be good, it will show time, but then she should have written in the explanation and needed everything I said earlier, and that is primarily that the National Programme of Implementation of the Strategy has proved that what you are saying is good. Because, as I say, we also knew when we adopted a strategy because it was in effect a directive that requires you to separate these two roles from the executive, or operational roles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105255	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105256	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 812, the debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 25 abstentions and 3 votes against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105257	We will now have a united debate on the next two laws - Final draft law amending the Law on the shortfall of wages by the basic years of employment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816; - Final proposal of the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 815; Introductory proposals for the law will be explained to us by Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105258	... MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Today, I do not have a very easy task, given that I have to present two laws that have forced us to have economic circumstances and the consequences of a multi-year recession. The fact is that we are facing an excessive deficit procedure, a large public debt, the need to adapt all of us to such circumstances, and thus the need to adapt certain rights of employees in state and public services, to all these circumstances that are linked to an excessive deficit. Since all representative trade unions in state and public services failed to reach a consensus on the regulation of certain material rights that are being denied by these laws in order to balance public finances and the state budget, the Government was forced to deny those rights by law. This procedure was also caused by the fact that certain material rights were agreed at times when the situation in public finances was not as serious as it is today. Similarly, the collective bargaining system in public services is somewhat decentralised, so those issues cannot be resolved only by changing the basic collective contract for public service employees and collective contract for public services, while at the same time not changing the border collective agreements in certain activities, which further complicates the process of compliance with social partners on the regulation of those rights. In this respect, it should be pointed out that those laws deprive material rights which have not been paid in the private sector for a long time, and when it comes to a salary allowance based on years of work, it is the right already paid in the same allowance of 0.5% per year of work. Therefore, these laws deny the right to pay off the regress and Christmas Day for 2015, employed in public services. This will equate employees' rights in public services with the level of civil service employees' rights, given that they are based on Appendix 2. The collective contract does not pay civil servants and subsistence employees the rights until 2016, so until the collective contract is in force. Since the rights of workers employed in state and public services are ensured from the same source, we feel just that the level of material rights of employees in state and public services is equal. When it comes to denying the right to increase wages of 4%, 8% and 10% on the basis of years of internships, once again I stress that it is the right to be paid by years of internships, which are already the basis of which is already paying an allowance of 0.5%. It should also be pointed out that this law on the shortfall of that right should be passed since trade unions in certain activities have already waived that right, and in order to equalise the level of rights of all the employees who are paid from the state budget, we consider it necessary to adopt these laws. The Republic of Croatia is in a difficult economic situation due to years of recession. By applying the new ESA methodology for the period 2010-2013, the consolidated debt of the general government on average increased by 27 to 29 billion kuna annually. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, a series of economic governance procedures are implemented at EU level as far as the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, with the aim of ensuring the sustainability of public finances, given that the general government deficit exceeds 3% and 60% of GDP's debt will be covered by a corrective excessive deficit procedure aimed at reaching the planned levels within the shortest reasonable time limit. With regard to the change in the economic situation for 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Law on the shortfall of certain material rights of public service employees for 2012 and 2014, the individual material rights contracted by collective agreements or other agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that this law does not cover the right to pay a regress for the use of the annual vacation for 2015 and the right to pay annual awards for Christmas workers in public services for 2015, so that employees in public services would be entitled to pay the basis of those rights under the proposed law are deprived of those rights to employees in public services. I note that civil servants gave up those rights by 2016. By way of derogation from the right to increase wages on the basis of the years of employment carried out by the Croatian Parliament on 21 March 2014 employees in state and public services from 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014, the right to increase wages was denied on the basis of the number of years of employment achieved, which were agreed by collective agreements at 4, 8 and 10%. The reason for the adoption of this law was the need for fiscal sustainability of the state and public services system, i.e. the achievement of the necessary savings in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia created in the environment of unfavourable economic movements. This is because on 10 December 2013, the European Commission reached a conclusion on the existence of an excessive budget deficit in the Republic of Croatia and then adopted recommendations on 28 January 2014 and called on the EU Council to address the state of excessive budget deficit by 2016 by implementing structural measures. One of the structural measures was the adoption of the mentioned law, which has had the planned effect of 359 million in 2014 during which intensive negotiations on amendments to existing collective agreements were continued in respect of those additions, as negative financial and economic developments in the Republic of Croatia continued during 2014. In view of the fact that by the end of 2014, the negotiations on amendments to the collective agreement had not been successfully completed for all existing border collective agreements and the structural measures that started in 2014 were necessary to continue the same in 2015. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, under the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has adopted a regulation on the amendment of the Law on the right to increase wages on the basis of the years of employment which the application of this measure extended to 31 March of this year. Since expenditure on employees in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 is planned at €20.1 billion and less than EUR 250 million compared to the year 2014 is necessary to extend the Law on the Shortening of Salaries on the basis of the years of employment achieved by the end of 2015. In the short term, the payments of these increases in the coefficients of complexity of business, i.e. the salaries of employees in state and public services in 2015, will result in an appropriate part of the necessary savings in the state budget of around 300 million kuna, as the commitment of the Republic of Croatia was made within the framework of the European Semester and the convergence programme on the implementation of economic policy measures to correct the excessive budget deficit. For the reasons described, it is proposed to pass this law by emergency procedure and as far as the effects of the laws are concerned, and what we can certainly say is that with these savings that we have foreseen we will maintain the level of pay and that there will be no need for wage cuts in this year. This measure is of short-term character, related to 2015. We believe that in the meantime we will reach a consensus with trade unions and other public services and that this issue will be resolved by agreement and that this law will cease to have a purpose. These laws will achieve adequate savings to ensure payment of all other rights financed from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105259	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105260	Mr Minister, when it comes to some things to compare then a methodology must be established, however very interesting that you were talking about the 2010-2013 methodology when it was not mandatory to apply and when that period was withdrawn from previous years, but very interesting that when you were talking about 2014 when it was mandatory to apply the ESA methodology in 2010, then some national methodology is being talked about. Because if you stick to that methodology, then it's a 2014 deficit. 20 billion kuna. Because you need to include guarantees as included in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. And so when you're talking about some data that has some sort of timeline, then you have to use the same methodology. If you don't do it then everything you said just doesn't make sense. But I repeat the only year you mentioned in which the ESA methodology in 2010 must be used is the only year in 2014. And all these years, they've been conducted according to the 2001 ESA methodology. Therefore, simply data that is not accurate and not good because, on the basis of this, all 20 billion guarantees have been withdrawn practically issued over the past 10 years, and if you look at the budget then you will see that on average the last 3 years were 5 billion kuna guarantees, primarily for the Croatian railways, and when you include that deficit in 2014 over 20 billion kuna. Not to mention the second pillar of retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105261	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105262	Thank you very much. So, respected ministers, you said it was necessary to deny individual rights to civil servants and tenants, or employees of state and public services for savings in the state budget, due to excessive budget deficits and planned 250 million less in the 2015 budget compared to 2014. So I wonder what resources you plan to employ more than 1200 people in this election year, on an indefinitely 1040 employees you published in the National Journal in the reception plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105263	Minister Miranda Mrsic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105264	Thank you very much. So the reception plan was agreed at the government level and at the portfolio level. Part of the employees will go by natural drain, therefore the funds that were for their salaries will be used for the funds of those who will enter the system. Therefore, there will be no need for additional funds to be allocated and the savings we have achieved have been the savings that we have achieved by agreements with the union, so the reduction of certain rights through the basic collective agreement between them are Christmas, regression and 4.8 and 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105265	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your speech and everything that's written in the materials here about the state of the economy, about the state of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, and the measures you're taking with these two legislative proposals confirms that I'm severely attacked by members of the Kukuriku Coalition and fellow MPs here is Mrs. Sobol and others here, that the situation isn't as black as I'm talking. However, it is fully evident from this, which is why these measures are taking place. And you can see from the report that it's obviously not to say it's closed, but it's true that it's a deficit and a state budget, that it's a huge public debt that goes to over 70% of the new method and that it's... However, I have here received assurances from your fellow MPs that it is not all black but that we also have pink elements which, we should be euphoric over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's true, it's true, we were just discussing it when he was here on the benches of the Personal Banks Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105267	Minister Miranda Mrsic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105268	Well, I'm sorry that everything is looking black, things are very clear and this government has set things very clearly and transparent since the beginning, among other things we have finally, we know how much we owe, so there's nothing under the carpet, there's nothing hidden, but public debt is not an obstacle to development, all the countries that have a public debt run by that public debt and Croatia needs to manage public debt. And on the other hand, we should, so we should each have had our chance to manage public debt, so it's not, but in any case we will manage our public debt. Therefore public debt management can also lead to shifts and prosperity and job creation, so public debt is not a bogeyman. So let's talk about how things run. And things are moving, so the number of unemployed is dropping, jobs are opening. In northwestern Croatia, we have an increase in the number of employees in the county, we have an increase in the need for seasonal employment, all this says that things are moving. 7400 young people received a contract indefinitely, will remain for this reason in Croatia. And that trail should continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105269	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Leftists, colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105270	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you said that it's not easy for you to present such two laws today and it's certainly not easy for you, that it's easy for you to do so in a minute, two, it took longer. It is not easy to justify one injustice by other injustices, therefore, by injustice against injustice. Some of us have already abolished these privileges that are now being abolished here in one part of the people, some of us have been abolished, and now it's fair for them all to be in the same position. So some of them fell into the pit, so let's go and everybody else, so it's better if everyone's in the pit, there's no point in standing outside. You said, among other things, that people get that extra on the internship already through the second regulation and right, they get it. However, all that people get in a pay bag sometimes, today's salary is on the bill. And if a piece of it is taken, no matter what you call it, no matter how you break that pay into a basic, addition to this, supplement to what, and you say we don't touch the basic salary, you cut the man's salary, the receipts, whatever you want to call, what he lives on. This is anti-infection law. It is a new word in Croatian, appeared relatively recently. The arrests are the ones that got caught. So they came for bread and didn't come to work. How there's been an arrest. Who's to blame and who organized the system to get the arrests? So political parties, who else for God's sake. That's not how people got hired, that's how they got here, so they know the chief, so they're accepted in principle. Things don't work that way, and we all know that. This party employment has become a Croatian system. It's inflatable, of course, the system and the state administration and the local administration to an unprecedented extent, we didn't know it could get that far. I remember in 2000 in Karlovac, in the City Administration there were 92 people employed. I made an effort to do what used to be called an analytical assessment of jobs. So what is done there and how many people can do it. And it came to 76. And he went to the mayor and told him listen, there's no point in firing people now, I know how complicated it is in the state administration, but when someone leaves, let's not take new ones. And good. There are 182 in that same town today. It happened at the level of all the cities, it happened at the state level, and now all the people who do that work are declaring themselves in love, not all the arrests. We expected reforms from the government, including the reform of the state administration, perhaps the primary reform of the state administration. One step in this reform of the state administration would certainly be to remove the earrings that have multiplied there. However, reforms do not happen. No one touches anyone. The territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia does not want to be touched because it is an explosive terrain. But even within this structure, no one wants to do anything because things are dangerous from the election. Moving by the least resistance method, which is the method where water moves in the flood, stychically, goes, the government applies tactics, the technique of the Procrust bed. We can't fix this, we don't know how, we don't dare, the elections are close, who's going to touch it now, so now that we can't do it and we definitely need 300 million, let's put it all on that Procrust bed and cut off what's too long. That's what these regulations do, it's not the only one, and now that these are all implemented, it's going to be carried out. But the savings system, it's not a savings system, in Europe they call it... so I know what it's all about, cutting everything alive around it, that system hasn't produced results anywhere, and they've given up on it some countries. What makes you think this is exactly where it's going to come in? Let's just stick to it when it's drunk, but good. This system of Procrust beds brings all employees down to the level of their own needs. When I say my own, I mean the need of government, group by group. Now we need 200 million, 250, and we're gonna take this group down. We're gonna need 350 tomorrow and we're gonna find a group to take down. The groups before this need to challenge each other and dissipate the media. When this happened with teachers and teachers, then the media had articles on it. I'm not saying that they were designed and ordered articles but they were, in fact, they were. The teachers don't do anything, three months of fairies, five hours a day, and that's why he gets that kind of pay, so he really needs to take it off. So the doctors came in line, they have a big salary anyway, and they're corrupt. Medical corruption was, all the newspapers were full of medical corruption. It's suddenly dead, no more, no need. Doctors are corrupt, they have high wages anyway, so we can cut them off. These arrests that we're dealing with today are pathetic because of the fact that they're arrests. How can we stand behind the entrails? The arrests need to be cut off, they don't do anything in these offices anyway, they have three times as many as they should be. Tax fraud, which will increase wages, so people will be able to spend more, which, of course, has not happened, the wages have not increased, and these and these moves will still be significantly reduced, says simply that the government does not know exactly what it is doing. He's working towards the current need, the need this week or possibly this month, but not for longer. She doesn't even know now, she didn't even know when she was cutting her salary to doctors, so now she's thinking about increasing her salary to doctors because doctors have an intention to go somewhere. Or teachers who have been brought practically into poverty. Home teacher's salary, teacher's in high school is 4800 kuna. It's poverty if that's what family needs to live on. The government knows that it should close the budget and reduce the budget deficit and knows that it should win the elections. I'm afraid that both these moves and the mass of other moves make the opposite of what will happen in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105271	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105272	Dear fellow Vuljanic, I expected more principles about the use of public money, or taxpayers' money from a former representative in the European Parliament. In doing so, I don't think anyone has the right to have more than the other because it belongs to one or another structure of employees in, the fastest said employees in the social sector. I can't have one twice as much as one for the same thing, and not once. Here, if you don't know the most solidarity of the Civil Service Union and the undersigned has shown understanding with the current financial situation in the country and is practically signing a collective contract to reduce the rights set out in these two laws, but some don't want to negotiate it. In the system, all those who have negotiated lower rights temporarily have a clause that if only one in the system pays for increased rights then the state is obliged to pay everyone. So it's one connected system, and it's really a two-base internship for health care workers' structure that's not correct, but so far it's not possible to negotiate because there's a mood in the health union to negotiate it. We've been discussing a change of negotiator recently, we've been changing the law, so in these three months, it hasn't been done, and that's why this is before us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105273	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105274	Thank you, colleague, for your support. It's clear to me that in this country, for 20 years and a few years now, our common money, I'm not going to say state money, the state has no money, our money, it's spending a verse. That's true. But when it's going to be corrected so that it's pounding on the pocket of those who are the least, who can at least do it in resistance to such a move, then I find it unfair. The fact that they took one off, and the other now have to take it off because to be equal, is exactly that system... I think they got the wrong ones and they don't need people removed, but they need to find out who's doing it, so who's not working and taking him out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's your science fiction. It's clear to me that you see it as a science fiction because all the time you live in this exact system where you don't do it, you don't have to touch people. E needs to be touched by those who don't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105275	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105276	A lot of cynicism when you were talking about that part of putting everyone in the same pit, but aside from cynicism. What I wanted to tell you is reform. Look, they wanted you to admit it or not, they're going through the reforms they might not want with dynamics, but they're definitely there. And this measure certainly isn't a populist measure, no matter what we're in the election year, and you're doing it yourself while you're at the pay phone and you admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105277	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica. But answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105278	Thank you. That's why I'll be brief. The fact that I've used a lot of cynicism in my speech is the consequence of my long-term life and political experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105279	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105280	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vuljanic's, we were also in the last term here when Mrs Kosor introduced the SDPs then. It's here, it's been harassing so much here that it's all splattered from the word "hammers, heaven's roars, like in the epic of that. But what is this? Since I can't hear from the other side that it's a hack, I don't get it. But actually that's it. Yeah, yeah. That's it, let the pay go, as Mr Vuljanic says, all you get when you get it. It's pay. And at work, half-percent. ... No, no, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I also had a hospital when I worked half a year at work, so I'm sorry, Mr. Hrelja, don't get in my word. So this is really the same thing if it was a hack, then this is a typical example of a hack. Furthermore, 15 days ago here on the assembly benches was, there were four legislative proposals very constructive and systematic Mrs. Martine Dalic on systematization and awarding in state and public, state administration and public services. This went completely unnoticed and the vote showed that the vast majority against it, although it seems to me that these proposals were quite excellent and that it was precisely the reform of the state administration and public services, precisely those proposals by Ms. Martina Dalic, I say here completely undetected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105281	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105282	That a cynic sentence can also be that every four years I turn my head and listen to the same story from the other sides, it just depends on whether that side is in power or in opposition. The fact that Mrs. Dalic's proposals were rejected, based on a German model that has worked, I don't know since when, but it's been working for a long time. That fact says that no one has the will to change the system, that it's easier this way and that we're going to have ears in the future. Namely, the arrests won't leave that service if you take off 5 and 10% and K 15, and I don't know what it is. They'll stay, because they didn't come to work, they came to get caught. And these people who really work in these services and who know and can, they're going to try to find someplace else and a better place and they're going to stay, they're going to make this system a negative selection, and they're going to be the ones that nobody really wants or needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105283	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105284	... Tonight's debate I could call the theory of arrest, but the order is because here it's often mentioned that awakening units of local self-government and no one's talking about what it's really about. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Breaker Zgrebec: A fellow Klaric microphone.]] So, making new legal solutions, kindergartens, fire departments, city libraries. All of this in that part of the budget users is being numbered to the units of local self-government, so it seems that they have become so intense. That's not what I'm saying to defend a Carlian or any other unit of local self-government, it's just a straight line. Therefore, each newly built kindergarten brings new employment, and thus increases those on the budget of local self-government units. But with what you've mentioned, the government doesn't know exactly what it's doing, or it does it on purpose. We are going back to all these laws that have been passed recently in the past since the removal of mountain-mounted status, from the recent Law on funeral services, on imposing obligations on units of local self-government, on the Tax Act, all this leads to this goal that they either do not know what they are doing or they are doing it on purpose, so that it all sort of stands and collapses precisely for those reasons. There's definitely someone's rights to this kind of solution here. If someone wants to do something in that sense to fix it and then a whole new law is passed that will apply to everything and define a complete solution in that sense, and let's not bring something temporarily to stand and be abolished, and then we'll see what happens. I don't think that leads to anything. And it definitely shows what you said that they don't actually know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105285	Nikola Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105286	My colleague, what you said about raising local self-government is the fact that local self-government in the meantime received some ingenuity that it had never had before, something from the area, from the county, something from the state, etc. But it still doesn't justify this kind of thing I don't know what to call it, it's not even a wake-up call, it's too slow, it's such an increase in the number of employees. And it's amazing if a man looks at who's been hiring 80% of the time from exactly one party. I'm not just saying yours to each other and the other and the third, the one there in power. That the government isn't quite sure what she's doing I'm convinced of and that there's really no concept of what's at the end of it, what's behind this move, what are the consequences and what we're going to profit from it or not profit from it. So, some kind of law enforcement study that comes into this House I don't see. And I think things happen in song and that it's the only reason that we can actually survive this. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105287	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105288	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I see, it's a very interesting topic and there's a lot of us in the evening. It doesn't matter. Says the minister, this is a measure of short-term character. We had a measure of short-term character in 2012 and in 2013, so in 2014, we have a clear 2015, and then we could adopt one measure, so for this whole term, we can resolve this issue, not every year, to discuss, to confirm the regulations or to extend the application of a certain law. Or should I say when it comes to buying those famous 1500 cars and raising large hallabuka in public, then Prime Minister Milanovic said contracts must be respected. Clearly, for the purchase of cars it seems that contracts must be respected but when it comes to workers' rights, contracts should not be respected because with these laws we minority change collective agreements, and we change even in one part of the legal provisions because it is the weakest link and we will easily resolve this issue and save some of the money the minister talked about. These two laws say they will save around 650 million kuna in the budget, that less planned are funds for 250 million kuna than in 2014. And well, maybe that's the exact information. I asked on the board today that I would be very interested in this part of the internship for 20 years, 30 years and 35 years that it's employed at 20 years to have an additional 4%, which number is at 30 years to have 8%, which number is at 35 years to have 10% and I can't get that information. I think then math and math would be a little different. But whatever it is here, it says 650 million kuna in the documents. In Rijeka, you ministers said that over a billion kunas would be saved, now I'm asking the question is it 650 or is it a billion? Or, based on last year's debate on this law, instead of the current 300 million said last year there were 500 million, the documents said, the bill. Now I'm asking if the calculation wasn't right at the time a year ago, whether today's calculation isn't right or whether we're doing it financially, we should be so short of it, and we can't get the actual calculation to back up under the law that we can reasonably discuss it here based on the arguments, based on the facts and make certain decisions and laws. Of course, there's been a little talk here about some other things, I think we should say the same thing. Because the issue of arrests they are somewhere through 14 500 employees in 40 agencies, 16 institutions, 5 funds or when it comes to the state administration and the public sector whether certain rationalizations could have been made more high-quality, so in a way that we hire people to work, not that we have a boss and then less superior under it, and then it goes to some hierarchy where they eventually complicate themselves life and the efficiency of such work is very bad and confusing and ultimately they meet citizens when they need certain services. Could we save money elsewhere? Not on workers, not employees. I think we could. How much we paid for certain consultants, certain projects when it comes to master plan, when it comes to monetization, when it comes to outsorcing, projects that have never revived where money is spent. If we hadn't spent that money, if we'd gotten into some different moves and clearly knew the result and the goal we'd come up with, then probably the result would have been different. Clearly, the government faced a situation where she lacked money, had a huge deficit in the budget, and clearly she was forced to fuck certain things, but the reason she didn't do it on the other side did not ensure that larger revenues were made. Is that if they had achieved higher incomes there, they probably wouldn't have had these problems in this second part. And as we see it may have been best if the government had passed one law and said that while we are in power to abolish collective agreements, we will regulate everything by law, rights, and probably less would spend money, time and debate here in the House, 5.6 times about changing certain laws, and we would probably save a certain amount of time there, and perhaps focus more on those major points that are about to solve this issue. Because in this section when you said the ministers have a positive measure, so here we are growing employment, that clearly it's starting to grow employment now because they're going slowly seasonally, and every year it happens. But overall looking at this time based on last year, either last year or in 2012 or 2011 in Croatia is 60 thousand less employees, some speak even more. We're here in doubt between what data is accurate, whether it's HZMO data or that data from the State Statistics Office. You have to agree to that, come up with some data that because those two institutions, if they say different then how can we know and in fact that's the result of where they only talk about the better things and not the bad things, and because it's clear that the victims of them are all employed in the public services and employees of the public sector, and I think that this account that we're talking about is because there are two different laws that are one about pay, because this part of the supplement of 4.8 and 10% it increases pay. Of course it's gross giving. On the other hand, when contributions are made from that salary, taxes etc. It's coming back again and probably these financial effects are a little different. On the other hand, when citizens get a little more money, they spend that money. When they spend them, they pay 25% of VAT for going back into the budget. So the effects of this are much less than what you're talking about, and so we go from 2012 to 2015, and we're practically saving only on those on which we should save the least, and we're not ready to take the fall to create a certain reorganisation, efficiency of the state service, the public sector and keep the standard of people and on the other hand, when we're banging certain rights, I'm sending out a clear message from the collective contract and that part of the rural part of the economy. Here's when we can do it in the public services and in the public sector, and you can so remove certain rights through collective agreements, and clearly then we're spinning in a vicious circle and out of that vicious circle in this way we'll never get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105289	They're hoarding some replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105290	That fellow Tušak should talk about facts, and the fact is that certain savings simply have to be achieved. Savings are sought in all fields and in all areas. Somewhere more efficient, they're less effective, but they're here and they're already feeling on the budget, and trust me, nobody's really happy about bringing these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105291	Gold shower response on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105292	When you save your colleagues Kredić you work over everyone linearly there is no savings, there is one dissatisfaction between all people. It's not a question of motivation of work, it's a question of people's dissatisfaction. Falling into a certain depression, falling into a particular situation where we do not motivate people and clearly that this whole part of the system that has been talked about efficiency, yes, save that, but the biggest savings and the greatest inefficientness has just been made through part of the human potentials that are employed here and clearly there are reflexes and the other part when we talk about the economy and when we say that there are no employers willing to enter a certain risk of employment and we are practically brought into one situation that we will very difficult to have and it will take a very long time to get to some smaller, better and more quality shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105293	The colleagues Grubisic and Cain are not present, so the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, colleague Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105294	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few thoughts of me trying to share with you. I'm going to support this law and I didn't expect it to be a united debate, I've devoted a little bit to these material rights more or less to regression and Christmases, but plus, minus, that's it. I will support it because I think it is one way towards justice, one way towards unification in the territory of Croatia, but on this condition it is applied everywhere, that it is also used by Croatia's electricity industry, that it is also used by Croatian forests, that it is used by television and everyone else. Why did I answer? Well, I answered for two reasons. I answered for a reason because I watched the union reactions and the other day I went with a lady to Western Slavonia and then I came to this amazing fact for me, the girl was college-educated, she was 25 years old and she was never easter than Zagreb. She was never more east than Zagreb and she has no idea what's going on in other parts of Croatia. And then I swore that from now on I would keep talking, whenever I said that I would say what the situation is, what it is, that people already once realized that it is not Croatia Zagreb, that it is not Croatia Primorje, that it is not Croatia Split, Rijeka etc.. The average salary in Croatia is net about 5600 kuna, Zagreb has 14% more than average and Vukovar-Srijem County has 23% less than average. That's almost 40% of your difference. In Baranja, where I come from, there are about 39,000 inhabitants, of which statistics are about 6.5 thousand unemployed. Of the 8 units of local self-government 3, Popovac 30% unemployed, Jagodnjak 40% unemployed and the White Manastir between 20 and 30, something is now shrinking due to these measures. The eviction is mass. And here I was the other day in a village... The residents are there and they're all excited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we said, "What is the matter with you, we wait for the sun to shine, so that spring may come, and I shall go to Germany to the asparagus." They're going asparagus. They couldn't earn otherwise, waited five, six months to wait, to leave, to earn three, four months there to get black, to come back and have something to survive with. Most of the population in our country lives on welfare. And an interesting one like this tends to more or less beg God not to die a grandfather or a grandmother because then he'll lose some income. ... Not because they love them, but because of the money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Those who work most often work in private companies and there are wages less than 8%. Or they work in a farm where the salaries are less than 15% of the average, they do temporary or occasional jobs in agriculture or they work with privates, and they're lucky to get some kind of minimum wage. At the same time, according to state sector data, wages are higher than the 3% average. There's a series of benefits and there's a certain safety at the workplace, maybe even a loan will pick up, and then it'll go away as some of them have gone through, if you're working with a private, you won't be able to lift it. There's hardly anyone in Baranja public service business. Every day long columns are formed toward Osijek and in schools barely anyone works from Baranja. An example of a municipality, a primary school, I don't want to name, a janitor at school, a school has about 100 students, a janitor comes and travels every day 70 km, and there are a lot of people in that village who know how to replace a pipe, fix a doorknob, make a window, etc., means all of it, or make an oven, etc., means the duties of that janitor. Many services have been moved and moved to Osijek. And another piece would be here, which I picked up, says that 25% of workers in Croatia have no basic benefit, no shoes, no transport, no Christmas, no regression and all these other gifts can only dream. In my opinion, it is not correct and fair to seek neither a regression nor a Christmas certificate while such a situation is. I come from school and these days I've talked to some colleagues, everyone says it's not a problem in giving, the problem is at pay level the problem is in creating conditions for good and quality work and there should be a focus of strength and there should be a demand for the situation to improve. It's not a Christmas card or a regression, so the problem is low pay. But there should be a normal difference between beginners and those who have worked for many years. We're watching a little bit and what the unions are doing, and I said that's why I called. So I didn't hear the unions strike what teachers and students go from one classroom to another in the snow and in the rain. I didn't hear they were moving on strike because the students didn't have five kunas for lunch in high school. There was dust like this when children in the White monastery had no or few children for a warm meal in elementary school, and then they started all this for primary schools. However, what happens to high schools, how can this problem be solved? Why don't we strike what students have to go 5.6.7 km per night and winter because there's no transport, because there's no easy transport. It's easy from the capital to discuss whether children have one enough fruit or whether their food is full of vitamins. We're having a discussion about whether they have anything to eat. It's easy to discuss when students have free or guaranteed transportation, free textbooks, but it's hard when a family has to single out 50% of their incomes on transportation and nutrition to their high school children, and about books that we don't even talk about. It's hard when parents don't have enough resources to send their children to school and then someone tells them about a union basket of 5-6 thousand kunas or analyzes a holiday basket whether it's 500 kuna or 600 kuna, whether it has ham in it or not. No matter what black 5-6 thousand kuna, so people live with 1200, 1600, 2400 kuna, that's what people live with. This is the reality of Croatia. 36% live in households that barely make ends meet. It's data from the State Statistics Office. 19.5% of the population lives at the risk of poverty, each fifth. And that's why I think one law and another is on the right track, but I said and I repeat it again but then everyone applies it. Then it can't happen that on HRT they pay for Christmases, regresses, they can't happen that in local self-government units and cities or municipalities they pay for shoes and God asks you what everything, what kind of giving or giving don't know what kind of supplies. If that law is on the way, and if that's how we're gonna go, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105295	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105296	Yes, colleague Juhas, it's a good thing you mentioned the union's reactions. Of course, and as expected, they are not positive, but I do believe that they must be aware of the seriousness of the situation as they must also be aware that this measure is only a temporary measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105297	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105298	Yeah, in any case, the unions also play a big part in all of this, and it might be good to really look up to these unions in the state services, so let's sign these contracts once, so let's put those collective agreements on once, put a point on all of that, and move on. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105299	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105300	Comrade Juhas, I listened to you very carefully, given that most of the talk was intended for our Slavonia, Baranja, and Srijem, or Baranja, above all, where you came from. But you didn't tell us, you started talking about a VSS girl you brought to Western Slavonia and what she experienced there, you didn't tell us, so I hope you'll answer that in your replica. And as for our Slavonia, I will only add to what you have already said. Namely, the average salary in Zagreb has said itself 16% higher than Croatia, meaning about 6500 kuna. About 4,000 kunas in Vukovar-Srijem County. It's a terrible distance and a distance. In Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem there are 7,000 pensioners more than employees. It's our only region, although it's not an official region, but we know what it means, where there are more pensioners than employees. In many schools you have talked about Baranja, teachers buy chalk, students are told to buy and carry toilet paper to school so that they can use it at school. 75 limes get teachers a mile when they come to work at any school. We know as much as you and I do. We get, like, two kunas a mile. They're getting 75 lips. So these inequalities that you've talked about, or all or none of them, I agree with you to apply the methodology to all the same, and then, let's say, as these educators who have already been taken down in 2010 and the regression and the Christmases, all pray that the neighbors die a cow and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105301	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105302	I will be my colleague Grubisic very short. That colleague's answer was, so is it possible that people live here too? Is it possible? Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105303	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105304	Thank you very much. Comrade Juhas, I understand you, you're going from some position let's be as righteous as possible but then you take the wrong attitude, so let's all have as little as possible. And you call for some solidarity, but in principle I don't have me, I don't need the other one, or I don't have me, but they don't have one, so they don't need the other. On the other hand, we all remember when the Croatian Government signed some contracts several times, it must stick to these contracts, we have raised the loans, we have signed those loans, we have to pay back those money. And here the Croatian government has also signed something for its citizens, but there is no obligation to keep what is signed. No one stood with a rifle with representatives and forced them to sign what they signed, and now suddenly the turkey dot is not worth it, we'll do what we do, and you can't do anything anyway because we have a sufficient number of hands in the Parliament. We'll vote whatever we want. You call for correctness, and I remind you of correctness, let's say when the prime minister says that pulsism finds that there are hungry in Croatia, that it is not true. Two days behind him, the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, says this applies only to Roma children as if these children have some minor needs or are less important. And on the other hand, we've got debauchery with all kinds of offices, bathrooms, jacuzzi as soon as we can. Then we have those famous, famous those use of planes that were very generous in terms of costs, and then buying cars when we said the same thing, but we have to stick to those contracts because we signed them. And here, according to our citizens, we don't have to stick to the contract. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105305	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105306	Comrade Juhas, in one part you took pictures of the situation and you said that unions should strike when children have nothing to eat or no transportation. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that this is why trade unions can't and can't strike, because if the unions strike and invite their workers to strike, it would be an illegal strike, and every illegal strike has certain consequences, and that's a shame, and that's a threat to firing. Trade unions can strike only when they are fighting for collective rights in collective negotiations or in the case where workers are not paid wages. It's the only legal basis for leading the strike. I'm sorry, but those laws were passed here in the House when there was a debate over the Labour Act. But probably employees would have the legal option because of cases like this that you instructed them to go on strike, to solve a particular issue and children and transportation and all those other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105307	Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105308	So what does a man say now to these two replicas? I'm trying to show reality, trying to show the situation the way it is in my environment. I am trying to show the situation in Slavonia, Baranja and what my colleague Grubisic says in Srijem. You have to understand once that this country is divided, that there are two worlds, there are two ways of living, and that needs to be adapted. So you can't compare what's going on or now you can go to whether the unions need to strike or not to strike. Well, that's absolutely not a problem for me. For me, it's a problem that people don't have and I'm not for not having everyone to die of cows. I am for all to be rich and all to have. I'm up for it, and I absolutely stand for it. But then I guess, first of all, you have to do some sort of order, put the ball down, even some things. So, politically now that we're having a discussion and we're arguing with government representatives, oppositions, etc. Then it's all okay. But it's not reality, it's not the life of my people! Your life is that when you go to the village and here you are six days ago, seven days ago I've only been to one man's house saying to bathe me like a normal man. Well, my people, that's reality. These collect...... I don't care. [[You can't hear me.]] Am I going to tell Milanovic, Josipovic or someone, I'm saying this in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105309	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105310	A colleague showing the condition, and it is harder and worse than you will not like people, nor do you help people in this way. You're saying half the pay people give to co-finance transportation. Then you didn't get to know what I'm very sorry about in 2012 and maybe it's our fault that we don't talk about it, so I'll remind you, because we don't mention what we're doing anymore and that's a mistake. It should be repeated, because we're not all familiar here in the Parliament either. In 2012, we allowed free study and co-financing of high school transport to remove the burden of costs for citizens. So it was necessary to introduce the order that you're saying yourself now in the end, really orderly. It took other words, in order for many measures to be introduced and I would say, paintingly expressing that it was necessary to clean up... barns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace has been defrosted and re-coordinated with the cost of living. In 2012, we disabled the payment of salaries without payment of contributions. Until then, there was no criminal offence, and in this way, 113 million kuna contributions were paid to the citizens. You obviously don't want to hear it. I don't believe you're sorry. We've increased a million citizens' pensions, and we've brought them into line with the cost of living. We've increased the minimum wage guaranteed. ... No, I'm saying what's done, and you call it prom. ... [[You can't hear it.]] And he says that nothing has been done, that it is hard to live, and I say what is done. [[You can't hear it.]] Imagine how to eat. And you're not his lawyer. [[Invader Zgrebec: Kologa Grubišić!]] Register to the chamber and then work in a place where it's convenient. This isn't a courtroom. And in 2015, debt write-offs allowed for 60,000 of the most socially endangered citizens to begin again. I need a whole debate to tell you what we've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105311	Thank you. Shandor Juhas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105312	I wouldn't really want to talk about it all night. This government has done a lot of things, thank you. I've been talking about the real situation as it is, and this real situation is the result of everything that's been going on for the past 15 years, 20 years. She didn't come today. These people have not lost their jobs today, these people have lost their jobs thanks to their stolen businesses, which are combined to be abolished, which has been ruled by total poverty, which has divided the country in the way it was divided, etc., etc., which are closed factories, etc., etc. I didn't talk about whether this government did or didn't. It's a normal thing for you as a representative of the ruling option, is that's how you're going to say what the government did, but I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about a real situation. And I said in the beginning that from now on, I'm going to keep saying it so that people can figure out what the situation is. If you don't believe it, come over there and look at it, and you'll see what it means for one family that has 3 children, 3 high school kids, and it gets 1500 or 2000 kuna of some kind of social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105313	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105314	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We've gone a little far from the subject, but the worst thing is when certain rights are a substitute when you take something from someone. And then it's constantly being politically transferred when something was so loyal to the service, that's what it was called, it's being introduced as a substitution because the stand-by arrangement with the IMF in 2000 pays in state and public services are a reduction of 20% to 40%. It was introduced as a substitute that no one later succeeded in abolishing. However, I will begin my debate with the Labour and Referendum Act and running to sign support to trade unions in the 7th month 2010. Look at your colleagues and colleagues, which means one reckless move, which brings us to it. Here, it's been five years, we've been cooking today, and today we're talking about how it's the result of a bad economic situation. In 2010, the economic situation and the situation in the world was 10 times worse than today. Today, Croatia is one of the few countries still in recession. But then, because of pulsism, they ran to support the unions even though it was evident that there was no money to pay it off, no money. And if anyone in that government was negotiating with the unions, it was me. But it never occurred to me to make one of these laws. Where did the Economic and Social Council go, where did the negotiations go? Isn't that gone in Croatia? Of course you can pass the law, the ruling majority can bring whatever they want, but the question is, will someone at some point press charges? We thank God for that stand by the arrangement and for which this loyalty of service has been passed among other things we have paid hundreds and hundreds of millions, and we can also tell billions of fees to police officers, military personnel and educators for it. But colleagues and colleagues, I'd go back a little bit to how we function as a Parliament and what's being swept under us to say so under the kidneys. Look, this bill had to be passed if we're going to stick to the Budget Act the moment the budget was passed. Why? Because we had obligations and we did not ensure that these obligations were paid, at the same time we did not have the courage to say that this would not happen. Why? Because she was in a full-on presidential campaign. And what's going on? On 31 December, therefore, the last day of the year, a regulation with legal force is adopted, because it is so under the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, December 31st is adopted and published in the National Journal on 31st of December, so it is possible to perform miracles if you need to take something away from someone, and it says that this Regulation takes effect on the day of publication in the National Journal and that is how it says about the right to increase wages. In accordance with Article 33(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: On 16 January 2015, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Government shall be sent to the Croatian Assembly a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. But it wasn't very political back then, either, and it was wise to talk about what was taken by the unions. And now look at your colleagues and colleagues on this agenda that we received on the tables this morning under points 17 and 18, so we will not discuss them until this part of the session of the Parliament, a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. So, we haven't even discussed this regulation that we're taking some part of the pay in this House, we've even discussed it. So much for MPs, so much for the importance of the Parliament and so much for our concern for employees, so much for democracy after all. And now look what this law tells us. It says on the date of entry into force of this law, the Regulation amending the Law on the shortfall of the right to increase salaries on the basis of the years of work. You see, colleagues and colleagues, if we had discussed this regulation then we shouldn't have broken the regulation because it would have become an integral part of the law, but no, we did it. And now look, says the Law on the Shortening of the Right to Increase Salaries on the basis of the years of work experience achieved in the December 31st, 2004 article is replaced by December 31st 2015. Now, if we change the law and then what happened between January 1st and today, and today it's 25.03.? What were we working on? By regulation or by law? Because look at what it says here, Article 1 states that the word December 31st is replaced by the words of December 31st, 2015, and we say in Article 3 that the regulation ceases to apply. So what's been going on? Has this regulation become a law? No, I don't. So many colleagues and colleagues about our work. And then when the public evaluates us, as they judge us, then let us not be angry because we allow this to happen to us, this is a shame and this has never happened in the Croatian Parliament, ever. I've been here for 16 years, 7 years as a minister, and 9 years as a representative of this kind of thing never happened. Why did I mention, so because the Government can, in urgent cases, pass a regulation, change the law at the moment when the Parliament does not meet and what needs to be done is known, practically as soon as the Parliament starts to debate that regulation and that regulation becomes the law. But we did the same thing with a pre-fashion deal, and the 45th article changed. It was the same the other day when we discussed the Pension Insurance Act with an identical story. So let's talk about how we behave and if we act like this, did he even have the right to pass the law to take someone's share of the pay? We don't, we don't have a moral right. Why? Because we're not doing our duty. Well, we're full of words here that worry about this or that. That's right, but unfortunately this is our picture and opportunity. The second thing, when we talk about these redundancies, etc. Some additions to collective structural contracts have been signed and for the past two years, same rights have been given to calm things down or something is done. But are colleagues and colleagues structural reforms? No, they're not, they're not structural reforms. Because on January 1, 2016, a new government will again discuss with trade unions what is with this supplement to work, whether it can be provided or not. But look at your colleagues and colleagues in the 2016-2017 budget projections, you don't have any money insured for this. So here we are served a budget with which we are not covered by commitments that must be paid out of the budget and that is also voted on. So much for these rights cuts. And the Christmases, therefore, are very interesting amounts which are said to be pinched, one year is one amount, the second year is another amount and is said to be if a working relationship right is differently arranged by the Labour Treaty, the Labour Regulation, the agreement concluded between the Working Council and the employer, the collective contract and the law applies to the worker the most favourable right if this and other law is not different. My colleagues and colleagues, please try this Article 9(3). The labour law is to be incorporated into this Law on Denunciation of Law, so I am giving a truly Nobel Prize to a lawyer who will be able to tell what it is from January 1st to Friday, when the ruling majority votes this law, which, as applied to public service employees, thus quoting this Article 9(3). So much for how we behave and how we do. We will soon receive a written opinion from the European Commission from all praises that we have and how we have done. Croatia is one line actually one step to the red zone. Since you look at the agenda in front of you and since the session is ending, you don't actually have any agenda points to change certain conditions or boost the economy before the Easter holidays on Friday. Under which laws will the Government propose some quasi reform to the European Commission to cover for what the European Commission has written, this is this macroeconomic vulnerability and imbalance. So, just look at the agenda, the basis of which law, which we have changed in the past two, three months that has offered any reform that something more significant will happen on the spending side of the budget? Yeah, we've applied some kind of national methodology to show that we have a 12 billion deficit. But look, colleagues and colleagues in the EU are using the 2010 methodology, according to the 2010 methodology. Croatia has a budget of about 18.5, 19 billion kuna and these 500, 600 thousand kuna, with 500, 600 million kuna that will be squandered with these two laws will not significantly change Croatia's fiscal and macroeconomic image, more will not change. And I also think that social dialogue must return to Croatia, that these provisions of the 2010 amendments did not go towards the abolition of any rights but simply raise awareness of the same level and employees of state services, and employees of public services, and employees of local self-government units, employees of public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia and employees of local self-government units, that according to newly created relations and the economic situation, certain rights from collective agreements can simply be paid no longer, and that they should be approached by new collective bargaining. Because look, colleagues and colleagues, I can't agree that in one of the public companies of the Republic of Croatia, with which there is a lot of news from taxpayers that shows a profit of 2 million in some kind or this year, next year shows a loss of 40 million to pay some bonuses and to pay off some kind of Christmases and regresses while at the same time one part of those who work in state and public services have no right to do so. That it happens in some cities and municipalities, that it happens to their utility companies, that's something that just can't happen. And that's why we at the club just can't support this law. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that's your problem how you don't care, that's your problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know nothing matters to you. But I repeat, the reform was an amendment to the Labour Act 2010. This isn't reform, this has nothing to do with reform, this is what, you know that folk when you cut a cat or a dog, forgive me for the expression of tail, and then you cut it slowly into pieces to make him forget a little bit of pain, and then you cut him off again to start hurting him, so it happens to public service employees. But I say this with no discussion of the regulations and this way of treating the Croatian Parliament is simply scandalous, scandalous and embarrassing for us colleagues and colleagues regardless of whether we are on the left or right side of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105315	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105316	Thank you very much. I answered my word when you mentioned the possibility of being, I saw well that you had raised, when you determined the possibility of starting to press charges if this law was passed but the charges had already been filed. But you heard, the other day there was in all the media for a few years, waiting at all to come to the debate and likely to come to a debate when there was another government, when someone else had to face the problem. You mentioned a report on regulations and a relationship to the Parliament. But it doesn't matter when there's going to be elections. How will this current position react when today, according to the same laws they have forced, it is only possible to conclude that another government is passing some laws that are not even open to debate in this assembly? You don't even have a chance to say, to point out that something's wrong, wrong, what's extremely well-intentioned, you just don't have that option. Will he, then, only then, be aware of what they did in the time of their haughtiness? But I guess it's like always gonna be too late for a reaction. You also mentioned the agenda, of these 45 points that will remain on the agenda, so look what's left. All you have left are reports and suggestions from the opposition, legal proposals from the law. And then we experience some. constructive proposals, cooperate actively [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] A year on the agenda. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105317	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105318	Yeah, colleague Novak, you see this is very interesting, we're going to cancel the regulation and then we're going to verify it in about a month or two. We'll verify what we've lifted. And when you mentioned the agenda, it's very interesting that the Prime Minister often says that the opponents are inactive, especially in terms of my club, not legislative proposals and so on. And look what's on the agenda, at the end. There are proposals for opposition. But I said that out of those 40 laws that the colleagues of the SDP so praised that one of those laws had been put in place, when they came to power, I would support it by hand. Why? Because for most of these laws, I wrote a negative opinion as a minister because they were simply inconclusive, but when you're in opposition, then you can, forgive me for the expression you're pounding whatever you want, there's no consequence and that's what it looks like. So of the 40 laws that came to this, you have, among other things, a health contribution of 7% and a zero VAT rate and a strong argument that a zero VAT rate cannot go according to the European Union directives simply did not go through. So of these 40 legislative proposals, none of these governments have implemented. Now is it more responsible in this House to debate, warn, propose certain conclusions or offer legal proposals that everyone alive knows are simply inconclusive but they are so lovable, they sound especially nice to people who have lost their jobs, who have nothing, so it's offered as some kind of hope. Now that's a responsibility. You see the Labour Act and the signing of a petition for a referendum on the Labour Act is one political irresponsibility. Why? Because... By amending this Labour Act, Croatia has cost more than 15 billion kuna in the last five years and that we are all aware of the situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government today would not deal with it, it would simply be settled by the Labour Act and negotiations would be carried out and certain rights and obligations established.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105319	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105320	Thank you. A fellow Shucker rightly warned of one thing and that concerns what if the Constitutional Court annuls these laws? Because the trade unions launched a constitutional court agreement with the Constitution regarding these laws on the shortfall of employees' rights. What happens then? Who will bear the question of responsibility if the employees then proceed with lawsuits for this whole part of the period that they have not been paid certain fees with tight interest and with everyone else? That's the question we may yet encounter in the future. And you're absolutely right when you warn that possibly this kind of risk could come to a charge and the charge might be bad because we're in a pretty bad situation anyway, so what if the employees who exercise their rights by virtue, we don't know what kind of decision the Constitutional Court is going to make, but what if they do and repeal these laws? Someone's gonna have to pay for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105321	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105322	Comrade Tušak, if there is a more appropriate moment than when you bring a budget to suggest certain measures that you need to cut something, when you show that you have a deficit that you have, you reduce it by 6 billion more than what it really is, and you don't do it then, but you do it in some future time. What it offers than one irresponsibleness and not having the courage to admit to the public that it is so and that it simply cannot be different. And it was supposed to be then or even the moment Croatia entered the excessive deficit measures and when the convergence plan was adopted. Let's see from the convergence plan how many measures have been abandoned, how many measures have given up. So how will the money be compensated for these measures? It just says whether someone has a clear picture of what to do or not has a clear picture of what to do. And we can talk about whatever we want now, but it's very interesting that the positive trends of 0.5 and 0.7 GDP growth in the second and third quarter of 2011 weren't getting out of recession, but that's why one quarter of 0.2 is a fantasy. And then you get a slap from the European Commission that the situation isn't exactly what it is and then the next slap comes, and that's a 7% drop in industrial production in January. So let's not play, because simply these figures will cost us dearly. And I'm going back to what you started with, the lawsuits, yeah. Why did I mention this loyalty to the service in 2001 and stand by arrangement with the IMF, because it cost the Croatian state over 2 billion kuna. If we hadn't made a deal, if we had paid those bar fees of 1,000 and some more kunas in appeal, that would have turned out to be more than 3.5 billion kunas just because some rights that were based on a collective agreement were guaranteed, and not negotiated, were unilaterally taken away. And you even had an IMF warning that it had to be negotiated with the unions, but it was done over the knee and what happened happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105323	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105324	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, you were talking about a report on regulations brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. So here's the first time I'd have been able to talk about the fact that the government changed four laws: the catering activity, the provision of services in tourism, the heat market, the support for agriculture and rural development on July 23rd, so more than 8 months has not yet come to debate in this House. I suppose when the Parliament passed the Law on Government Powers, it then predicted that a report on these points was submitted immediately at the first session of the Parliament's first days. However, I would refer briefly to this law. You were talking about waiting for the written opinion of the commission that we expect will be more positive, and for that reason we are just changing these laws. Since my view that civil servants and tenants are paid little or no money, their executives try to make it so that the management staff in certain institutions has more than just regular employees so as to appoint regular employees as department heads, department heads, sector chiefs, department heads, sub-division heads. We have ministries that have 1.12 executives on one of the referents. I'm saying again, I've been working in the state service, I know these receipts are small, and since then, they've been much lower for the professional training, for the responsibilities they have. We say that we have a bad economic situation, while at the same time people on whom they rest from establishing borders, outcomes of different permits, confirmation of the main project, applicable permits to those people who work at European funds in the ministries, we pay a little, and these laws and special rights are being abolished. I don't think we'd expect our situation to get better then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105325	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105326	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterparts Martinchev-Juričev, it is common that regulations are always given at the first session after the break and that they are discussed, but when you want to cover up some things, then you drag it away. However, I would like to mention something here about rewarding and evaluating work in state and public services. Without adequate rewarding those who work and punishing those who do not work, we cannot speak public and state administrations. And now some are drilling into the Payments Law, etc., we had it in 2000, and then it was abolished. Then it tried to introduce it in 2009, and in 2010, it stopped at the starting coefficient in the negotiations with the trade unions. But what you were saying simply points to something else. When you need party arrests to raise because they are dissatisfied with the ordinary official salary, then you make up some kind of managerial jobs and then you handle them in principle with yourself and then you can't agree whether a card should be booked or not, whether there's something to be counted on or not. They're so burdened with dividing jobs left and right and... in the morning when they come to work because they can't give to anyone... just forget what they have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105327	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105328	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, here I will take a look at what you have said about the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and about the laws that should seek to enable economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. So here are some laws that were last week, and even today, even after the emergency procedure of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, it's so important and 2018 is a deadline. Furthermore, the Law on undertaker services, a clean lobbyist law that also went through an emergency procedure, and then a law on protection. Wait a minute. [[No, he was in two-reading co-workers.]] The law on the protection of tropical wood is so important for the Croatian economy that it came by emergency procedure at the session of the Parliament. When we talk about lawsuits, starting with the police, we know that, you mentioned that, in the ship's hospital dozens of doctors are suing the hospital where they work in Slavonski Brod for overtime work they've done, and it's not paid and they get through court and lawyer charges. Hospital i.e. HZZO, the ministry pays compensation with tight interest, lawyer costs, court costs, etc. So it's a less familiar thing. But in a number of hospitals in Croatia, doctors are suing the hospital for, i.e. the Ministry of Health for unpaid overtime. You may not be so focused on it, you may not have known. But what's with the arrests, so it's a catastrophic fact just like one to one for twelve relationships, so the steering structure to that ordinary reference, one to one to one whole twelve like a catastrophic thing and the ratio of the number of pensioners to the number of employees, almost identically comes one to one whole twelve.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105329	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105330	My colleague Grubisic, I deliberately mentioned this agenda for a simple reason to see that there are no laws in it that would change any environment for business in the Republic of Croatia. And why am I saying that? Well, because in the past two months, we haven't discussed God knows what kind of law. So it was just before the budget, and based on these laws, the budget was passed. Both the budget and the results of last year received an extremely negative assessment by the European Commission. The government has now made a new proposal for reform. Now I'm curious as to why they're made if you don't change existing laws that you can drastically change if you haven't changed the legal frameworks in which these legal provisions will apply. You can't change anything. Did we cut down on some right over reform or something to change some expenditure position on the bulky side of the budget? We didn't. Therefore, I understand that colleagues from the ruling coalition want to justify some things. But these are our facts and this is our truth. Ours as a Parliament, because look we are declared to be like this or like this, but we are realistically looking as a Parliament, and we have nothing to discuss. This is the report, it's... in two three days, because it's the 2013 reports, and we've basically got nothing to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should we write ourselves legal proposals for in order to cover up the government's unhappiness. Because this agenda is a typical example of the government's negativity because there are no legal proposals, there's nothing to discuss, and that's facts. And we will see what we will get from Brussels, how the European Commission will assess us. Because look, this decline in industrial production of 0.7% pardon of 7% in the first month only because one economic branch, practically two factories did not do so simply shows how right the European Commission is when it says that Croatia is economically vulnerable and unstable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105331	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a colleague of Hrvoja Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105332	Honorable vice presidents, ministers with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since it's too late and it's already been said I won't really owe it. Reflecting on what to say really about these amendments and additions that the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the right to increase wages on the basis of years of work experience and on the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services was neither easy nor simple. It was also not easy or easy to bring to the government such an unpopular measure, which is indeed not everything but populist. Unfortunately, it is only possible at the moment, and the result should be contributed to the reduction of the deficit that has left us all and our goal, which is also prescribed by the European Union. Personally, at this point, I believe that as unpopular as it is and as much as it is necessary to bring such a measure, rather than affecting the reduction of the number of employees and thus reduce the amount of wages. Of course, when you get the desired, when you achieve the desired economic growth that is there, which is expected and already in 2016 material rights that we are talking about, I am sure it will be returned. These are unpopular measures and, of course, that everyone would be happier if those measures didn't have to be implemented, that we were so rich that we didn't have to think about them. I really must say that this is really a temporary measure and the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105333	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105334	My colleague Nekic, very short. You say this measure will reduce the deficit. How can you reduce the deficit with something you didn't predict as a expense? The only truth is not to pass this law would increase the deficit. So that's a fact. Because if you look at the appraisal of the funds you need, then you'll see what it's all about. Therefore, these laws were to be adopted as accompanying documents for the adoption of the state budget for the simple reason that, in accordance with the Budget Law, we did not provide funding for the rights that someone acquired neither in the current year nor in the projections for the next two years. And the Budget Act says if you haven't secured in the current one, then you have to secure it in next year's projections, and unfortunately it's not secured in either one or the other. It is, therefore, not measures to reduce deficits, but measures to prevent the deficit from increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105335	On behalf of the club, not sorry. Hrvoje Neklic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105336	So, like I said, this is just one measure. I am sure that by next year she will be withdrawn and that the rights that have been recovered by this measure will be returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105337	It would be better if the total salary increased, not the fees. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105338	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy. They say the most severe Jewish curse God has given to have and not have. That's exactly what happens with these two legislative proposals that the SDP gentleman before me said were unpopular. Of course they're unpopular because slapping in the pocket is the hardest slapping, it's easier to get it in the face than in the pocket. When the educators lost their regress and Christmas cards in 2010, then it came down to their regresses and Christmas cards, and again under that password, they have a lot of hard media pressure to have 3 summer months, 1 month in the winter, and then for Easter and then there on their days off, so let them give in at least so that the regress and Christmas Day have been denied, and they have lived without it for 5 years. However, how they live and how much wages they have is best asked, but surely there is a great, great dissatisfaction. Today I got one text from a gentleman who has 5,000 kuna pension and 300 kuna supplement as a political prisoner. That's how it was formulated before. Now he's got 4800 because he's been stripped 10% but to the total. So, even on those 5,000 kuna he's got for retirement, so if he wasn't a political prisoner at all, he'd still have 5,000, but since he was a political prisoner, he's got 300 kuna bonuses, and now he's got 4800. I guess it's a punishment because he was a political prisoner in the former state, that rotten one, according to the SFRY. That's how the law works. Instead of taking 10% on those 300 kunas, it is taken 10% on all 5300 kunas and then he asks and best if I had kept my mouth shut and if I hadn't been a political prisoner at all, I'd have a bigger pension for 200 kuna today than I was a political prisoner and let's say some credit for that. So, the resurrection is about, excuse Christmas, regress, eh, that is also a resurrection, a Christmas, a regression and a compensation for the loyalty of the service, so on the years of the internship, which these two laws we pass with less media attention since it takes place at this late hour, although it would be much better to hear the debates at the time of the transfer to HRT 4 in the morning to the citizens to hear. I think these topics that were in the morning could also be replaced in order in the agenda because this is a topic that will certainly affect a large number of people, which will be concerned by a large number of people and will actually be paid by a colleague Vuljanić, so total income, sometimes it was said personal income or whatever you want to be less than they were before. This is not a reform, so it's not a reform at all, it's just that this part of these three things is being resisted and in order to save allegedly some billion, the amounts that are being mentioned are different. So somewhere around a billion kuna, someone says 650 etc. What does that mean? Well, someone analyzed here that not getting those funds will cut into some kind of consumption and then cut the VAT flow to the state register, I think a colleague of Tušak, and in fact, where you were, nowhere, what you were doing, nothing. Reforms cannot be implemented this way. In addition, he threatens to sue the Constitutional Court for which he could be more expensive pie for a tepsi. So, to pay and tighten interest and the costs of lawyers, judges, etc. and trials in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when we had the opportunity to introduce and when the proposals were constructive and the opposition, let's go, Col. Dalic, in connection with the formation and service of local self-government units, in public services, then in public services, we somehow passed those four laws as from the joke and, of course, voted united on both sides negatively, we gave a negative opinion to these proposals, which is what someone in the German model said we were proposed here to the Croatian Assembly and it went beyond that. And now it just fell a little bit into oblivion. What was I gonna say? In fact, this kind of savings in some way and the deficit of the state budget could have been done in a way that was willing and that was also smart, and otherwise. The other day we listened to the State Audit Report and what the State Audit established and in connection with the costs produced by the State, so government, ministries, offices, agencies, seductions, and what is not and how many employees there are in these institutions, how many arrests, etc. from that APIS unfortunate we mention very often and who we know is the structure of employees on the political line, so that's quite clear. But what hurts more is the finding of the State Audit that much more than 2% has been spent on copyright works, on fees, on contracts, used to be called labour contracts, far more than 2% of what is foreseen by law compared to 2% of employees' salaries. That's the problem. Let's go after the ministry, how many consulting services did the Ministry of Transport pay for consulting on the modernisation of the Okucani-Vinkovci railway, how much paid for consulting services for the first, has suddenly become the first phase of monetization of Croatian highways? How much has the Ministry of Health paid for consulting services for the master plan of the Croatian hospital, how much, how much, how much more, do I have? How much we paid for the 2,000 cars we got last year, 600 million kuna. How much information we paid last year in the budget, 600 million kuna, these are cars and computers 1 billion and 200 million kuna. And now says here some pact of sant servanta. So contracts have to be respected, yes, but don't collective agreements have to be respected, these have to be bought cars, and these don't have to be respected. How's that? There are conflicting, contradictory theories or economic strategies in Europe and the world. One is the consumption strategy increased, and one is the belt tightening strategy. It seems that according to the belt tightening strategy, it has lost the battle, and it is seen by the policies in Europe, according to Mr. Holland, who was pressed by a fierce belt in the beginning and now not. There's a Shuker tightening his belt, but it's not worth anything to him. But it seems that she's out of line, but we're coughing, obviously we're coughing, we're lagging behind these European trends, and here we are still at the stage of that belt tightening. On those consultations, he says of the payment of consultations for the outsorcing, and even the Ministry of Tourism paid consulting services in a million-dollar amount for a full of life. Because we know the company that it is, but I'm not going to name it here, it's not nice to name companies about it. Even many ministries and agencies have ordered non - Croatian lecturing jobs are not an authorial work. There's all this in the State Audit report with all that spending on coming to you in one ministry, raising money and then returning to the War Ministry of Money, but after a warning, not right away. So, loaning money in advance. Could it not have been reduced and rationalized by the number of agencies, the work of agencies? Well, look, there was this gentleman today who said he was in one agency and then there was a break, he says, so it came out the world I can't believe there's so many of them in the agency, and there are, but there's that. That, regardless of this measure and the savings that will come to this, any government or yours or any other, will have to be reduced to a reduction of the state apparatus, and some in public services or in public enterprises where a large number of arrests have also been placed that they will have to be reduced by starting with the presidents of certain administrations, for example. in HEP, where the director didn't even know how to change the light bulb, but he was a party director. I'll leave the topic if I go after Juhasa again in Slavonia, but there was a girl with them, so I don't have to go there anymore, I live in Slavonia, so I know how it is. Mostly the HDSSB club is unhappy with the general work and the way this government works, the way it could save and it couldn't, so I think these two laws, with these two moves where employees' material rights are cut, it's going to be a terrible incentive for their elan in the workplace, it's going to be a fantasy I think so, so we'll certainly have better results of their work when this is done. So the HDSSB club and of course it won't be for, accept such legal proposals. There, thank you very much. Since it's too late, I'll cut it short.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105339	Well, you won't cut... But you've got two more lines, so you won't cut it short. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105340	You started your discussion with a saying that you think is the most difficult curse of all, "I hope he didn't have one." Well, you see, there are worse than that curse on me, and that's an old Bračka proverb, "I hope you've never had enough." And that earlier years have made it impossible for some to have such a grampability that there would be no such bill today. But we're not going to talk about these consequences anymore, that's already done, and if I didn't repeat what's opening and boredom and, of course, in the name of the club, I wouldn't want to repeat it. But here you're talking about a political prisoner, it's a little bit less than time, so then we're letting ourselves talk in this time and something a little bit wider. When you were talking about a political prisoner who's using that pension today and who's smaller today than the one he'd have based on his work. Is that how I managed to understand? I'm referring you to a political prisoner somewhere from 2000, so it's not about Feral or any other media, but where you're sure to find some things on this subject that you couldn't find elsewhere. Political prisoners here speak of the case of an abominable political prisoner who was tried after 1945 to 18 years in prison, one of the few who managed to escape from prison at the time. He was sentenced to 18 years, then it was possible since '45. Until '48. to be sentenced to 15 to 20 years. He was sentenced to 18 years. He only served eight months, fled to Australia. He came after this bill was passed, he came, he picked up the money without, because there wasn't much checking at the time and so, pick it up, it was just enough judgment not to confirm that you'd endured that sentence, he picked up the money for 18 years, and since his opponents did. Or his associates discovered again he dusted in Australia. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] I guess he's waiting for some new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105341	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105342	Thank you very much. Your colleague Ingrid may be familiar with the pension system or perhaps not Australia's pension system. There's a man who came and I know one, who came to his son, who went to Australia early, lived for five years and got 700 Australian dollars in pension, for five years of continuous life, a continuous life in Australia got 700 Australian dollars in pension. It's the lowest or minimum pension in Australia. Maybe you didn't know that, but let me tell you that it's clear to you. And as far as individual cases are concerned, this isn't, what I've been saying isn't an individual case that you're suggesting has its own... It's a general case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not just him, it's not the 10% measure that's applied to everyone. It's everything. And that has nothing to do with what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105343	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105344	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Grubisic, I agree with you, always taking bankruptcy rights are unpopular measures and sometimes even saving the sea, which is being saved. I believe that and many of your colleagues who are local know, here I know them, some commissioners who also have to patch up what's left for them. There's been talk of responsibility, irresponsibility, but I want to ask you something else. Do you think it's irresponsible that today's productions hold us on these measures of those who have been in debt, those who have made unreal promises, unreal projects, who have built bridges in nowhere, who have painted tunnels several times, who have built highways through Slavonia that have been more expensive than through Gorski Kotar or through Lika or Dalmatia, etc.? So I just want to ask you, as my colleague, how irresponsible do you think it is and how unfair it is for our current public service employees to be denied the rights to earn money to pay their salaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105345	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105346	We in the HDSSB have a very short answer to that. In these 25 years, the existence of the Croatian state has remained, but I hope that it will not remain that way "blow Kurt to ride Murt" that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105347	Can I have a word? Minister, final minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105348	Thank you very much. I won't be long and I hope you won't use my discussion for the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic. Just for a little while, um... Therefore, in 2010 and 2011, collective agreements were concluded and were concluded in the best faith because at that time there was a situation which was such, so no one would object to people in state and public services obtaining certain rights, given that at that time there was the means to conclude collective agreements in such a way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2012, we realized that it was a crisis and recession and that we couldn't pay off everything that was agreed in collective agreements we launched negotiations with the unions. That took a long time. I note that in the real sector, trade unions and employers agreed very quickly on their salaries and on the very reduction of certain rights. So the negotiations were under way, the negotiations were ongoing, they were still ongoing. And as for the remarks of the distinguished colleague Shucker, it is therefore envisaged to reduce certain rights but it was not passed by law because it was thought that we could negotiate with civil servants and tenants because the agreements, therefore, were ongoing. So it was our instinct to negotiate this with civil servants and tenants and with public services to make it equal. So we also managed to negotiate a basic collective agreement, and we managed to do what hadn't been done for years, which is that we cleared collective agreements because it was always common for something that was in the basic collective contract to be rewritten into a border collective contract and when it moved from the basic collective agreement until it moved from the border collective agreement, that right went on. So what we have now achieved, we have achieved righteousness and equality. So what is agreed on in basic collective agreements and collective agreements for civil servants and subsistences is not agreed in the border collective agreements and now the situation is clean and I still hope that it will always be so that what the agreements in the basic collective agreements do not need to be copied into the border collective agreements. We negotiated as much as we could. The problem was 4.80. We negotiated 4.80 with school, with social services, with science. So with all the border unions, we've negotiated a 4.80 waiver, clearly with the clause that if a 4.80 is worth it somewhere in the system to open the returns negotiations for 4.80. I think it's a fair clause. And the health talks are under way, they're a little harder to go, they're a little harder to last. I hope it ends with success, too. Also, civil servants and tenants, which is fair and fair of them, and on the other hand, the government has agreed to it, have therefore said if you negotiate a reduction of 4.80 in public services, the civil servants will join in shorting out if there is short notice and in public services which is fair and just. On the other hand, when we talk about Christmas and regression, civil servants and deputies with the signing of a basic collective agreement and Appendix 2 gave up until the end of the collective agreement 2016 Christmas and regression, the reduction of the jubilee prize to 500 kuna and the reduction of the daily living to 150 kuna until the end of the collective contract. Part of the union in public services did not agree in this way, the negotiations were, they did not finish, they will continue. Public services, part of the union has not agreed to give up Christmas and regresses for 2015 and 2016, negotiations are ongoing and to ensure equality, justice, to ensure that all rights are equal, and not to let one public service right happen to us, and the other in public services are not. The most recent example is that unfortunate transport that we have contracted in public services in a new way. We also agreed with the public services in the basic collective agreement in the same way as with civil servants and tenants, but we remained in the border collective agreements different solutions and public services about 6 months more rights than everyone else who had, say, when we were talking about a collective contract for civil servants. So this is all we do, we do things, so we just pay everybody off, so we pay everyone what's unique because both of us get funding from the state budget. Just yesterday and tomorrow, there will be negotiations over a jubilee award that has been reduced to 500 kuna in a collective contract for civil servants and tenants, we have received court rulings. So it won't happen what happened in previous years to deafen the verdict of the court, so we finally had to pay interest and the costs of lawyers and everything, they're negotiating with the unions to return the jubilee prize to 1800 kuna, since we have therefore the final verdict of the court, executive. So we have to pay off to avoid lawsuits and avoid everything else. Negotiations are under way that both of us, although civil servants and tenants have waived the right to have a Christmas card of 1800 kuna, we consider it fair and fine that if we pay it to the public services to pay for the state services as well. Thus, the Government is for righteousness, that things be equally resolved for everyone because they both receive funds from the budget. And lastly, there is no honourable representative Grubisic, I am glad that he supported the separation of pensions because what he's talking about is she's our intensity with the separation of pensions, short of going to the special part, and she's not going to the short end to this part that's deserved so through the Pension Insurance Act. A little late, but here I see he's given his support that the one we're headed is the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105349	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105350	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we've been talking about unions here today, about redecorating rights, Christmases, regressions, etc., it's become a habit, it won't be paid, there's no money. But I'm interested in something else, one notion that's almost never been heard in this House in the past 3.5 years, and that notion is a union basket. The union cart has been the subject of fighting in the Croatian Parliament over the past 15 years. There was this play, there were baskets, bread, carrots, cabbage and everything else that was needed, calculated monthly and suddenly when SDP came to power no more union baskets. No one can live anymore. No one alive can calculate what has been calculated monthly by then. So I wanted to ask why that is, is it the union's incompetence that they can even calculate it, is it illegal because I really don't know anything about it, which is why I wanted to ask you, or are they calculated only when HDZ is in power. For we have witnessed great gatherings, first of all energy, then heating, then various living foods, etc. And suddenly as soon as the SDP comes to power, there's no more union baskets. They just disappear. Is it your influence on the unions that you managed to fight a little bit, a little bit apart, determine who's representative, who's not, who's allowed to negotiate, who's not, if you need someone to put away has gone away, etc. Is it perhaps your influence or unions more suddenly have lost their ability to calculate that union basket or is it some law that may have banned Eve I'd just like to hear your opinion about it because I was just thinking once, asking you exactly on the actual watch but I'm saying here I'm going to take the opportunity to tell me now you're here because you sure know a lot about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105351	You're here all the time in the Parliament, if the law knew. Minister Miranda Mrsic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105352	Of course there's no law because there's no SDP impact on the unions. You can go to the independent Croatian trade unions site, Mr. North and his union calculate that basket almost every month, so you can get data on the union basket there. What this government is doing is that as far as salaries and salaries are concerned in the Republic of Croatia, together with trade unions and employers, we are sitting around it, about wages, to see what salaries are in Croatia, what they pay in certain sectors. And then it will contribute to even greater transparency. So, you have to ask Mr. North to give you the information he's always been able to provide neatly. The reason why they are not likely to exist is because it is ready for another methodology to measure the impact of salaries and purchasing power of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105353	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105354	Thank you very much. I'll try to quote you from word to word. You said, "Collective contracts were signed in 2010 and 2011 in the best faith but there was no money." Right? Citizens who took loans in Swiss francs signed a credit agreement in the best faith. Turns out there's no money, no money. What is their chance compared to this opportunity now? You state by law that we have negotiated in the best of faith but we do not have and you cannot achieve it and we do not give it to you. This bill of law says something else? No matter who negotiated, the government negotiated. Are you saying that what one government is negotiating signed off on is no longer valid for the next one. I don't know if I misunderstood you, but that's how it turned out. It's not us, it's not about us. And now, at the same time, you're talking about how much money was paid and interest on lost court disputes, so we've come to a more favourable solution by settlement, and now we're going to meet others. So, you're taking on those obligations that the former government has made. Right? So is this. But second, some future government, regardless of whose it will be, will have these obligations that you will have today, or on Friday your deputies will vote on it, and then we will probably have an epilogue on the way to court after a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105355	Minister Miranda Mrsic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105356	Well, I'm sorry you didn't follow well, so in 2010 and 2011, collective agreements were negotiated in the best faith. Therefore, this government respected those contracts, so it paid what it could under these collective agreements. So, all those bonuses, all those salary supplements, the positioning supplements for these two things, so the Christmas and the regression and 4, 8, 10 there was no funding. We've started negotiations with the unions. Part of it worked, part of it didn't. So it's time for everyone to have equal rights. But let me just mention it to you so you can expand your width a little bit more. The situation was similar in other countries that had to reduce certain rights of signature on collective agreements at the time of the crisis and recession. The international organisation of work and the Committee of Experts has made it clear that, at a time when the state cannot because of recession and because of budgetary problems, it is possible to deprive certain rights in a limited period of time and after these rights can continue to be paid further. And that's what this government just did. And as for the obligations of this government or future governments, as far as collective agreements are concerned, there will be no tails left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105357	Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105358	Thank you very much. Well, dear Minister, you said you negotiated some of this, that you negotiated, that you made a deal. But my question is what do we get from it? It says about 350 or 300 million kuna. First of all, it's certainly not 300 million kuna, because that money and that money would be spent on these employees, so immediately in the state budget, there would be 75 million kunas of value added tax, so the minus would be, plus 225 million. Furthermore, we get dissatisfied officials and tenants, those who work in public and public services, we force them to leave. All those who are young and valuable and ambitious, those who have working experience, and then everything remains to us and lies on those who have no where or those who are before retirement or better told by those who no one will. And these remain, and we, on them rests the preparation of different EU projects, expect them to do all of this well, quickly, quality. We keep talking about this efficient public administration and I'm afraid this is the same thing as putting a donkey on everything we're saving on water. Just so it doesn't happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105359	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105360	There's no such thing as funds. So, in order to be able to pay for Christmas and regression and 4, 8, 10 states need to be additionally in debt and that's the only truth. Therefore, we do not have the possibility of further borrowing ourselves, of still raising the budget deficit even more than it is. We're in a system of excessive deficits and there's simply no such means for that, not just this year. They were neither in 2012 nor in 2013 and 2014. It just doesn't have those resources. Whether they will be when we start to recover, when the situation is better, they will be negotiated in collective agreements that are here, so that both two and a fundamental collective for public services and state services stand out at the same time in 2016. It will therefore negotiate for some new rights or existing same rights. As for the quality of public or state administration, you forget that you have a public administration where you have 270 thousand employees, where you have nurses and doctors. Therefore, at this very moment you have the same burden, each is taken equally. You don't take one and give it to the other. But I agree with you that the public administration, or the state administration, should be refreshed by new personnel and that new people should be brought in, and the salary should then be realistically paid, so we should probably go back to paying classes. Equal pay for equal work. We need to see what's wrong with local self-government, and we need to see what's wrong with local self-government wages. Because a lawyer in the City of Zagreb head has 30% higher salary than a lawyer in the ministry. If you're ready to be equal to everyone, we'll be better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105361	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals on Friday. Comrades and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 with half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105362	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the shortfall of wages on the basis of years of employment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816, the debate on the bill is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Please... He's gone. We'll stop, we'll postpone the vote. I'm listening to Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105364	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, am obliged to warn this High House of something that happened because of the government's irresponsibility. Therefore, point 3 is currently operating under a Regulation adopted on 31 December and published on 31 December. We have not discussed the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this House. We have discussed the laws repealing this Regulation, given that the importance, this Regulation ceases to apply on 31 March. So, the government will again regulate something by its regulation because of its negligence, because what they have done today is their negligence, irresponsibility and haughtiness towards the Croatian Parliament. And I think this was due to the Croatian public to be mentioned, because this simple humiliation is all the representatives of both the ruling and the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105365	Dear colleague Shuker, nothing has been done outside of the Rules of Procedure. So there's nothing outside of the Rules of Procedure, everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure. And now we're going back to deciding. ... No, no, no. [[You can't hear it.]] We didn't even decide. Allow me. Please! Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the shortfall of wages on the basis of years of employment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be shown about the amendment. Dear Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-25-0.u105367	The government accepts the amendment. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. Please, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. Please score! I find that by a majority of votes, 75 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 votes against the passed Law amending the Law on the shortfall of wages on the basis of years of employment in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. We have also done a decision on the materials and points of the agenda that we have worked on last week.
