ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53398	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53399	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Why does the prime minister hesitate to apply to the National Assembly for the reconstruction of the government? If there was such a misunderstanding about power through Western political parties that finance Western intelligence services around politicians who, in their opinion, go to the US and English embassies, after the Western treasonous act of the opposition, there are very stable social conditions for the government's reconstruction to be carried out. The Serbian Radical Party is an opposition political party and we want your power to fall as soon as possible, but to fall into a normal parliamentary or electoral process, not to try to do so with the help of enemy forces. Now that these conditions have stabilized, the government would have to be reconstructed as follows. To remove first all ministers who get their views on regents at the American or English embassy. I've mentioned these ministers a lot. Names aren't particularly important. You know better than I do now. Then, all the ministers who proved incompetent, all the ministers who proved to be greedy, alas, who were entering criminal affairs, who were performing acts of unworthy ministerial function, since we still had one year left to choose, and how the government's reconstruction makes practical sense. The government would be more successful, so we would go to elections in even more stable circumstances. Secondly, as it is under constant pressure from Western forces, Serbia has been incessantly for years and since the pressure is growing, the government's reconstruction would stabilise our position and in measuring forces with these Western forces. It would be good if the government were reconstructed before this meeting of the President of the Republic with Prime Minister Angela Merkel and President of France McCron. You know, the reconstructed government, the more stable the situation, the stronger the hands. That's what I'd do. Every soreness brings enormous damage. Who's he supposed to be sick to? I come from the assumption that someone is not the ministerial function of grandmothers, inherited in the Serbian government. I'm starting from the fact that there are no irreplaceables, and I'm starting to see the entire ruling coalition shake up. You have these parties that have shown that they want to sit on two chairs. They're with you while you're doing well, and as soon as you're downhill, they're in another camp. You didn't think about it when you were making a coalition. You've made the coalition under parole where all the Turks go, so let little Mujo go. However, it is not a proper political platform. Anyone who is unworthy should be told to his face as soon as possible that he is unworthy. If you are unable to do so, the situation will be tightened again by September of the month, in some other circumstances, some other conditions. I'm not saying this because I want your government well, I'm saying this because I sincerely want Serbia to do well, because it needs stability, because in the next election, I want us to have a better result, and of course, the people take credit for us and for being correct and for making moves that have always been best for Serbia, even though we haven't been in our party favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53400	Time. Next is Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53401	Thank you, President. I ask the question of the Ministry of Culture and Information, will the funding of works continue and how much funding is allocated to the site of the archaeological site of Caric's city in Leban, and have the conditions for this site to be granted public enterprise status? This would contribute to a greater affirmation of this locality, especially if we consider that amendments to the Law on Public Property have given local self-government more authority, when it comes to cultural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53402	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53403	Thank you. It is widely known that the protection of health and care for the sick among the main tasks of every society in which humanity is one of the central values, but we are also witnessing that individuals have been campaigning negatively against the current republican government and the health ministry for a long time, reducing the role of the state in treating Serbian citizens abroad. I do not know if it is necessary to specifically mention that in November 2014, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the initiative of then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, established a budget fund for the treatment of diseases, conditions and injuries that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia, in order to provide additional institutional assistance for the treatment of children and adults abroad in addition to the funds provided by the RFZO, as well as to enable the first info line on 1 October 2018 in which interested citizens in a direct conversation with RFZO operators to inform themselves about the necessary documentation for treatment abroad, the way applications were submitted, the status of submission to the application, the current stage of processing of the submission, but neither did Minister Zlatibor Lončar sign an agreement on co-operation with domestic air carrier Erpija in mid-November of this year, which provides for the Serbian citizens, who are to be able to carry out a successful stay in any way. I ask the Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar how many citizens, every calendar year since 1 January 2010, have been treated abroad at the expense of compulsory health insurance, which are the most common diseases that have allowed treatment abroad and how many of the total number of treated adults and how many children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53404	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53405	Thank you. Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several parliamentary questions and they are all addressed to the MUP and they all refer to the frequent savagery of opposition leaders in the last days and weeks in Belgrade. My first question is whether an investigation has been launched and whether the organisers of a shameful attack on women will be prosecuted on April 4th in front of the Belgrade City Assembly. On that day, to remind the public, a session of the National Equality Council was to be held in the Belgrade City Assembly, but the session was interrupted because Djilas's fighters Bosko Obradovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Marko Bastic and others tried to break into the city's assembly building. So, they tried violently to enter the building the same way they broke into the RTS building before that. Fortunately, the women present have shown truly great courage and sacrifice and prevented them from doing so, but unfortunately, there have been injuries to two women and I want to determine responsibility for this event. In particular, they upset a number of images and images, showing that Gilas's fighters were most offensive, threatening, cursing even those present women. And it's no wonder they're ready even for physical attacks. After all, the bar Bosko Obradovic is famous for the attacks on women. Wherever he was concerned, a woman was hurt so that I wouldn't list all his insubordinations in that sense, so I don't have enough time, and the public remembers all of his attacks on women well. So here's what it looked like. This is the councilman in the city of Jeremic's assembly showing middle finger, that's the lunatic who physically attacked women that day. That's the kind of people we're dealing with. Now, when they failed to deal with women, they moved on to fences and traffic signs in Belgrade, and that's my next question to the MUP, and it's about the rampaging of opposition leaders in downtown Belgrade on April 6th, when they were destroying construction sites, tearing down protective fences, breaking the cubes that paved the square, destroying machines and so on. Here's what it looks like. Here, this hero Bastache with his trophy. The same Bastic, however, announced a blockade of Belgrade at 1205 hours today, is otherwise the president of the Belgrade municipality of Stari Grad. Then we have Bosko after the battle with the traffic sign. Here, proudly holding the trophy traffic sign, there is Gilas, he heroically stumbled against the protective fence and here they are all gathering Nikola Jovanovic, Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, and there the unfortunate Borko Stefanovic joined them, after a heroic battle with fences and signs. The city's administration has estimated that about 10,000 euros worth of damage has been done and I'm asking the question – who's going to pay for this? Who will pay for this damage and whether Djilas, Obradovic, Jeremic and everyone else will be responsible for all this. Why am I making all this possible? Because it is important to stop once and for all the terror and violence policies conducted by Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and others. Once and for all, stop causing chaos and disorder, stop causing incidents and blockades of the city, stop physically attacking anyone who thinks otherwise in Serbia, send a message that politicians should deal with politics, represent their programme and do so here in the Assembly, so where is the place for such a thing, but it is obvious that Djilas, Obradovic and Jeremic have no program, that they have nothing to offer citizens, that they ate language of hatred, threats and blackmail, and that the only thing they can do is create an atmosphere of lynch and chaos. I am taking the opportunity to invite all Serbian citizens to attend a magnificent SNS rally tomorrow at 6pm and you will all see a picture showing how many people in Serbia support decent, normal and successful Serbia, Serbia led by Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53406	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session today by the following MPs: no one has reported any absence by the Rules of Procedure, and we can consider everyone to be present. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session shall be convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the reason of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt the draft acts of the proposed agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland on international road traffic be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, against – there is no one, with abstentions, who has not voted – 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Czech Republic be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –132, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Rondex Finance, Inc. on the regulation of the unmistakable debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Rondex Finance, Inc. from the period of clearing payment. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the activities of the French Development Agency and PROPARCO institutions in Serbia be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Social Generale Bank of Serbia, Belgrade, the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and the Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on a loan for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of the stock company South Stream Serbia AG, Zug, Switzerland. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Commercial Registers be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs for – 134, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs for – 134, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure in Katastar of immovableities and waterways be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs for – 134, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs for – 134, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs for – 134, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53407	National MP Goran Chabradi suggested putting on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission to review the legality of small hydropower plants and small hydropower plants built in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 149 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who are abstentioned, has any of the 149 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53408	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I want to thank you for your warm welcome. It's a pleasure, an honor and a privilege to be with you here again. I want each of you individually, I hope you won't mind, to thank you for the support you gave me and my family in, for me, a very difficult time period. Once again, thank you all! Now let's get back to work. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53409	Here's a man first, Mr. Milicevic. You ran into me right away. I would, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, firstly wish you welcome and good health. As for the proposal I have made, it concerns determining the facts related to the murder and the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. For many years as long as it has been since his death, constantly and then ruling DOS, but still today the ruling majority has been trying to impose some kind of political legacy on Serbia by Zoran Djindjic. It wouldn't bother us if those stories were based on the truth. However, this is about the worst possible plantations. When you say Zoran Djindjic, what we Serbian radicals think first, it is the bombing of Serbia for which he insisted to continue, it is a robbery privatisation, it is Janjusevic and Kolesar, it is what was called the one they called "a lactated cockroach", it was also a prominent member of Djindjic's cabinet and many others. Everyone wants to see dead Djindjic and profit from him, but nobody really wants to know what was going on, who had an interest in his liquidation, and we know very well that even immediately after the murder, it was said that those who were carrying his coffin, that they were actually involved and that they were both politically and in any other way most profitable from his death. You are in your infirmity, here I speak primarily of these quasi-democratic and European-oriented parties, in your infirmity, in your anger, accusing even the president of the SRS and the entire SRS that we were creating an atmosphere in which Djindjic was liquidated, and in fact what Vojislav Seselj said at his departure, which is that Djindjic will end up at the bottom of a deep and cloudy river either alone, it can be said, a sociological study. It was an observation based on the current situation, because Djindjic was the one the mafia brought to power and that was the time when it was said that every state had its own mafia, and that only in Serbia was the mafia that had its own state. We know that those who were later accused of killing Zoran Djindjic and those who, here I am finishing, shot him also had police badges and that they and today's MP and then high-ranking DS and the head of the MP group at the National Assembly were the ones who brought his alleged murderers, or his murderers, to prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53410	I thank my colleague Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 129 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another topic that all representatives of the ruling coalition are happy to discuss. But what you persistently refuse is that you are dealing in one single appropriate way, which is that the facts relating to the elections, relating to irregularities, determines the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia poll committee. One can say that there are other authorities that are authorised under the law to deal with this, but the fact is that these other authorities are police, courts and prosecutors who have the possibility of dealing with irregularities and stealing during the elections, not just in this last term, but since the beginning, or the introduction of a multi-party again in Serbia, that they have never fulfilled their function. The only way, if you really want those facts to shine, to see who stole, to see who crossed the censorship, and who didn't, to see who Scott forced into the Assembly, I'm talking about US Ambassador Scott, is the only way to form a polling committee, which would be composed of representatives of different political parties. I believe that anyone involved in politics has an interest, the highest possible interest to determine the facts, that is to say, to participate in their determination and thus to prevent future elections, whenever they are, from talking about stealing after the election. All elections, the previous three or four cycles and practically all of the five-octobar bulldozer revolution, marked stories of irregularities, stories of election thefts, of invalid ballots, that is something that marked Tomislav Nikolic's arrival in power. I will also remind you that the DOS regime in 2000, or its leaders, when they entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they set it on fire, burned the electoral material to prevent it from ever finding valid in the future that Kostunica did not win the first round of elections. The fact was, however, the second round has not been held since then, so to this day it continues from election to election that we have irregularities. Whether the election will be now or be the beginning of next year, it doesn't matter. We in the SRS insist that the conditions for the elections be fair and democratic, that the elections and the election day itself, the electoral actions are conducted in accordance with the law, but most importantly, never again happens after the election that after the vote is closed and published by the RIK, for example. that the Dveri-DSS list did not cross the censorship, that they were gathered by US Ambassador Scott to call on the state leadership and say that the list, as well as the Ceda-Canak-Tadic, must be found in the new assembly of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53412	I thank my colleague Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Djelic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53413	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is the 14th time we've talked about the Fighter's Law, but gentlemen, I also want to inform you that today disabled, disabled and war veterans and fighters are coming to the streets and coming before Serbia's presidency. Simply, remember last year, when the Law on Amendments to the Law on Fighters, War Disabilities and Families of Dead Fighters was passed in this same room, the Minister of Labour promised that no rights to wartime people would be violated by any single dinar. Within a year, wartime people with disabilities and families of dead fighters lost one entire disability. So much for the truth in this House. Here, for days now, certain ministers, and this morning the prime minister, have been calling on representatives of veteran organizations, trying to make a deal with them not to go out on the street today. And that, gentlemen, is all because of your behavior here in the Assembly. I can tell you that fighters don't see you as people's representatives, especially they don't see you as their representatives. The enemy has inflicted physical harm on our disabled, and they are disabled because they have lost parts of their bodies, but the wounds on their souls, gentlemen, you who are sitting here in the congregation, and that is how you unscheduledly raise your hand, or you will not raise your hand to this law, you have inflicted wounds on their souls, and they will never forget it for you. You here only take care of yourself and your political parties, and don't take care of the people who just made sure that you in the Assembly and other people around Serbia live peacefully. That's why, gentlemen, you will have disabled and veterans on the streets of Belgrade these days. It is a shame that after 27 years you pass 15 times individual laws, and one of the most important laws that you would honor those who gave their lives, parts of their bodies and your health for this country, you did not vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53414	Thank you, colleague Delic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 126 MPs, out of the 150 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53415	The family law must be amended and we have proposed to amend this one member, of course, with the permission that, if there is an interest in the ruling majority to accept this proposal, it can certainly be extended in a certain way. The point is that the member we want to change here, or put out of force, produces a lot of problems, and that's becoming more and more obvious from day to day. Now we listen to this kind of problem every day in public, and it already counts on tens of thousands of children who, in one way or another, are magically taken by parents. The most common is the argument that they are poor families, and it is simply amazing that this can be a reason to take a child away from a family and be given to a foster family, and that the foster family in the name of the child’s care is given the appropriate cash compensation that is much greater than guaranteed earnings. We ask – why is this amount not given to these families and that they take good care of their children? It's simply inhumane and it's amazing that you take a child away from your parents because your parents don't have 30,000 a month so that your child can eat, and you give those 30,000 to another family. Because, you know, foster care in Serbia is no longer a human gesture, it has become a serious business. Ask around social work centres, there are connections, you know which employee in the center is going, how much money is being given to get foster care, and that's something that really threatens the family, which endangers those children too. Because, you know, these foster families take those 30,000 dinars to buy their kids new shoes, and their old ones give that kid whose parents can't support him because they don't have those 30,000 dinars. And what's also a problem is a child's supplement, for which I don't know how many papers and evidence to be delivered, and at the end of the day people live in Belgrade, Leskovac, Nis, it doesn't matter where they have underage children, and in some native village of their dad or mom, they inherited their grandparents' house, in a village where there's no school, no kindergarten, where only a few dozen nursing homes live, and then you say nice things -- and, well, there's property, they can't get a child's allowance. So these are some anomalies that we wanted to draw attention to, in the expectation that indeed in the ruling majority, there will be an understanding that this proposal will be put on the agenda, that we discuss, well, in the end, and that we will vote and see if we have a majority for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53416	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 134, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53417	To remind us, the Law on the election of MPs was passed in 2000 on the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party and then all parliamentary groups voted in favour of the law. So we managed to gather the impossible around the law, because it was a good proposal, or good law. And that law was good until you and those before you changed it. There were several changes, every change was worse than the last one. This law I'm talking about had a supervisory board and there was no need for any REM or what was previously called a regulatory body. So it was on the principle of parliamentary groups, which must be the basis for every parliamentary activity. Next, you gave your mandate to the MPs. We propose that the constitutional provision be returned to the law and that MPs be allowed, as the Constitution guarantees, to be able to entrust their mandate to a political party whose list they were on. The order of MPs can also not be established in advance. I'll just remind you that just a few months ago you had a problem that perhaps three months ago you couldn't bring the MPs into the National Assembly when three MPs of the party "Enough was enough" resigned, honorary people, resigned because they left the party, but one of those who were on the next list has already moved from the list to the Serbian Progressive Party. And the procedure was stalled. The one from "Enough Was", of course, will not put his signature on the list to assign someone to the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. And then I don't know what you've been negotiating, and after three months, you've managed to solve this problem, and you're not going to solve it in law, so it never happens again. It must increase the censorship for the coalition elections. It can't be the same censorship for one who goes out alone and for one who pulls two, three, five or 14 political parties together. Again, here's the practice, they entered us with 5.01, pushed, Scott pushed them into the Assembly, the DSS and Dveri, as soon as they got in, they split into two parliamentary groups. No one knows what MPs are in today. The biggest immorality was committed by Sanda Raskovic Ivic, who, as party president, kidnapped her party's mandate and today, I guess, belongs to Vuk Jeremic, who did not participate in the elections at all. So we're telling you that you need to accept this proposal, to discuss it, to change that by any amendments, so that we can really solve this problem. Just one more sentence. Because of these anomalies that you do not want to accept, because you do not want to discuss our proposal, we today have in the National Assembly 14 MPs who are so-called. stand-alones. So 14 MPs here don't have the right to vote, because 14 of them have to stand in a high-start office, so whoever runs first gets the right to speak for five minutes. They all took a mandate because they came on someone's side, so it's no shame they can't speak. So, please, here's very concrete and logically, accept that this is being discussed, so that in the course of the debate we might add something else, subtract and finally solve the issue of electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53418	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53419	The current Labour Act was adopted on the basis of a recommendation, i.e. a proposal from the IMF and foreign investors, which, of course, took little care of the rights of workers, and mainly took care of their interests. So today after five years of applying this law in one general atmosphere in Serbia, we are such that all of Serbia, or all of the employees, almost want to change this law. Why does he want to change this law? Here, I'm going to list just a few members or points of attention and why one serious analysis of the effects of the application of this law should be done. One of the reasons is because foreign investors mostly employ people for a certain time, and in fact that, in the end, has become both practice and 90% of the workers are employed at a certain time today, which is not good. That should be an exception. Then, the minimum labour price is prescribed as a minimum labour price, however, is being misused, so that the minimum labour price is actually a real profit constantly for all the time the worker is employed. Then, the profit account. The profit calculation no longer calculates previous work among other employers, but exclusively for the new employer, which is excellent for foreign investors. Since our people worked for 20 years, they were out of work, now that a foreign investor comes and he hires them, those 20 years don't go into his labor price. Then, when a severance payment is done, it is also misused, as it is also calculated for the payment of the severance fee only by the last employer. Then, we have the wide powers of the employer in terms of abuse, so when it comes to firing workers, the employer can do it whenever he wants, the way he wants, because so much law allows him to play with the workers, and the worker when he comes to work every morning doesn't know whether he's going to stay working tomorrow or not. It is therefore necessary to do a serious analysis of the effects of the application of this law, and then it will be determined that this law does not speed up employment because a foreign investor, when it comes to accurate knowledge and how many jobs it has received, what time it comes, etc. Then, under two, the black market and the grey economy of this law absolutely are not prevented in any segment, not one percent, so there remains a great possibility of abuse of the existing law. We believe that this law should be put into the procedure urgently and that amendments and additions of this law should be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53420	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs out of a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53421	By adopting the Constitution in 2006 and the Law on Citizenship, we created an opportunity, which was otherwise an initiative and correction of the law of the SRS parliamentary group, so that all Serbs who run the origin of Serbia or one of their parents, who, in their statement, say they recognise Serbia as their country of origin, can gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. In recent years, however, Serbs, especially from Republika Srpska and Montenegro, have irrevocable administrative difficulties for reasons that, although they are exempt from paying claims, Serbs from Republika Srpska, there are over 50,000 of them, mostly students or those who have graduated from colleges, which in Republika Srpska, which in Serbia, cannot reach citizenship today. In fact, their demands are in the MUP unit, depending on where their place of residence has been reported or if they have done so through the consular office for two or three years, and they really have major problems. They come into the situation that they must, and we have, on this agenda of this session and the Foreign Law, treat them as classic foreigners, to leave the Republic of Serbia after 90 days, to return not to break the law. It is very important that I raise one question today, and this is also an application from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, as well as from the Ministry of Finance. A group of Serbs from Venezuela addressed the SRS parliamentary group 10 days ago. They are over 200, which are therefore the descendants of those who had to avoid the Ustasha knife during World War II. They are located in Venezuela, and many of them do not live in Karakas, but in Marakai, where they registered their Serbian association in 1963. They have a request from us and have asked us to present it at a session of the National Assembly to help the state of Serbia reach their citizenship, because it will sign those statements through the authorised representative in Serbia, Mrs Branka Colovic, if the state of Serbia gives them the opportunity, as well as Serbs from Republika Srpska not to pay the tax. Because of the very difficult situation in Venezuela and because of what America is doing to the regime there and President Madur, our Serbs, our countrymen, these 200, are in a difficult situation because they have neither food nor medicine. They're asking us to influence, and it's really possible to get rid of one act of the competent ministries, to get rid of the fees, because you can be sure they'll be grateful to us. Since 1945, they have kept their national identity in Venezuela, restored the Church of St. George in Karakas, doing everything possible to promote our culture and our language and, therefore, it is very important to meet them and accept the amendment of this law, so that all Serbs who wish to do so within the shortest possible time, if they meet all conditions, give citizenship to the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you to vote to amend this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53422	Thank you, colleague. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP Rose Nikolic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the Law on the Transplanting of Human Organs was in the assembly procedure and when it was adopted, we had, as a fundamental objector, a so-called introduction. assumed consent, because we consider it not good and that it can lead to great abuse and trafficking in human organs. These amendments, i.e. the basic reason for the submission of this Bill, are amendments to Article 23. The law on human organ transplants, which we suggest authorities can be taken from a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia only if he pleads to be a donor for life, not that we assume he wants to be, because he did not apply to the Biomedicine Administration and plead otherwise. We know and we pointed out the importance of donorship, we know that the new body means a new life for someone, but it can only be achieved by a positive campaign and by promoting donorship, and of course by reintroducing donor cards, not by such a law that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which can be misused. The Ministry of Health but also a complete society should promote donorship, as this will increase the number of voluntary organ donors in Serbia and that is the only way to achieve the desired effect, and by no means by the assumed consent that we are erasing from this proposed change. The Serbian Radical Party also submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 23, as this article violated Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that physical and psychological integrity is inviolable and that no one can be exposed to torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment or punishment, nor subject to medical or scientific examinations. It would therefore be good for this bill to be amended in Article 23, because the Constitutional Court cannot make any other decision but to declare this member unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53424	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 138 MPs, of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53425	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. All know that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours, the Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, i.e. Albania has been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the borders of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this happened, we do not blame the current regime for the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija were found, but we blame ourselves for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security force at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who has spent his entire life downstairs, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia, if God will, again through Gjilan, to hear Serb trumpets and to play the famous Gjilanka. Therefore, there should be no compromises on state territory as long as all other topics can be discussed with Albanians who see that the Republic of Croatia also shows hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that by adopting such a law as I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions of necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53426	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17 MPs, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 MPs, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on Family Financial Support with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53427	Thank you, Chairman. Financial support to families with children in the light of the exercise of the rights under this law would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are not able to do so, i.e. Achieved, and the number of such families is growing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's rights, the parental allowance would be achieved only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be equally treated with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Prolonging the period of payment of the parental allowance for the third child to 18 years of life instead of the previous 10 years of life. For a fourth child to be 18 years of age instead of 10 years of age, for a fifth child and every next child, for whom no parental allowance could be obtained until the age of 18 and would provide partial financial security to families with more children. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people leaving the country have been reported, so the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse, so a large number of families face a lack of funding, which directly reflects the birth and raising of children. Given all the facts, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security regarding giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Financial Support Act with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. As regards the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget and finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money for the payment of a child's parental allowance, in the way the SRS proposes, these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. By adopting these changes and additions, a basis would be created for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We are witnessing the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia, from Leskovec and other municipalities of Jablanic and Pcinj County, where young people, young married couples and young children go. Those who leave will surely never return, and all efforts should be made to keep those who are there, here and there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53428	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs, of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the laws on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53429	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm glad you've recovered successfully and you're here today. It is good that the Law on psychoactive controlled substances is repeated by this rotation, given the importance of the topic and importance of the issues governed by this law, relating to the safety and health of citizens. These are issues of production, transport, use, storage, storage and destruction of drugs that are not for further use. My intervention is now related to this segment. The stolen drugs are stored and stored in rooms where both doors and windows and walls and ducks and ceilings are made of materials that allow storage. I asked for the whole drug to be reassessed before the destruction and the quality of the chemical analysis. Why? Well, it's precisely because there are the most possible abuses here. Can't someone change a whole package, a bag, a bag, with some other substance, like we saw on the movie with flour or chicken, or something like that. Fighting drugs is a big problem on a global scale. We are witnessing the recent withdrawal of a large amount of drugs in northern Germany, packaged in banana packages. It was a ton of heroin worth over 300m euros. Then, on several occasions, large amounts of drugs seized in Spain or the most recent large quantities that Dunav had thrown out. Tons of heroin dropped at the Romanian port of Konstanc, worth over 300m euros. With us, the latest arrest of US members or yesterday's arrested "Albanian" from Kosovo with four-and-a-half kilos of heroin. All these successes have no effect and are not particularly reflected in the Serbian drug market. Why? It's precisely because the production of plants and laboratories in which it's being prepared is so abundant today that it's not feeling that success at all. As for intoxicating drugs and narcotics, they enter our country the most through Kosovo, making Pristina more and more Balkan Medeljin and Kosovo Balkan Colombia. Of course, I mean that part of Kosovo that is ruled by the Cypriot separatists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53430	Thank you, colleague Boyic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, against – the abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs, out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture, in rural development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs, of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation and Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53431	The law on enforcement and security is under constant analysis by an expert team of SRS lawyers, for the simple reason that this particular part relating to the so-called SRS. Public perpetrators in the people known as private perpetrators are doing enormous damage to the citizens of Serbia. The president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, after returning from his official trip, one of the first political statements he made is that he will be active in the SRS, and he will personally fight the abolition of public perpetrators. As time went by, there were more and more reasons for that. It is known that the law of execution, at the time of the communists, was passed in 1978 and it had 11 amendments and additions, until 2001, but no amendments and additions of the Law passed on that possibility to anyone other than the judicial perpetrators. Lately, in practice, it has been observed that there is an increasing string between some judicial authorities, between banks and private perpetrators, simply, the mobline exists, so in 2017 about 3,736 apartments and other housing units were sold. The analyses showed that out of that number, almost no executive debtor had another housing unit, and executives, or those who bought it, could be seen that it was their fifth, sixth, eighth, who knows maybe the tenth apartment. That's why, we believe that this part of jurisdiction should be returned to the bailiffs. Once, there was also a statement by the Justice Ministry that this was passed on to public perpetrators, for reasons of efficiency and because there is no special cost to the state. In such situations no matter how much it costs, it is important that this execution be just and that it be with the least possible damage to the executive debtor. Here, recently there was a case that quite accidentally he was the son of one public contractor, the other bought an apartment, and that the right to prevent purchases, Mrs. Snezana Aksentijevic had no, quite accidentally found out and quite accidentally came into the situation that he bought an apartment before someone from whom the apartment was violently kidnapped, and today we will have in principle some topics that should enable this, or prevent it. This law was introduced by Boris Tadic, the majority he provided, and accepted in 2016 with some modified content and Aleksandar Vukic. A large number of Serbian citizens are opposed to this method of enforcement, and I think this time we should vote in favour of this bill, otherwise we have submitted this proposal for the sixth time and we will not give up until the amendment and addition of the law on enforcement is put out of effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53432	Thank you, colleague Perich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, who is abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs, of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53433	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks, with a request to be placed on the agenda of this assembly. We all know that the problem in this area has long existed, but it has recently culminated for one simple reason why today textbooks are written by everyone, betraying everyone and everyone, literally, making their choices. This is not the first time the SRS has warned the authorities that in this sensitive area there is a public hearing, but the more we hope to prove it, the bigger and bigger the problems. This is particularly important in those textbooks that process Serbian national history and Serbian culture. However, if we look at the few who print and publish textbooks, we will see that the monopoly on publishing textbooks has companies from Slovenia and Croatia, then it is no wonder that the situation is as it is. We, in the SRS, are not meant to have a monopoly in this area, even if it was the Department of Publishing, but simply the state must, through the Educational National Council and other institutions of the Ministry of Education, have real insight into what's going on here. We know what the situation is in some of our neighbouring countries, such as Montenegro, where the largest living Serb poet Negos is being expelled, and if this continues, I fear that it is not far from the day that it will happen in Serbia. I was at one of the previous sessions of the National Assembly, when I suggested that the agenda be complemented by this point showing what kind of textbooks there are, so I also cited publishers who publish such textbooks, I showed illustrations of which really catch the chill when they see it, literally shame doesn't allow me to do it again... I showed it once, but I don't want to show it again here, but literally, the state has to do everything in its power. So, the essence of what I was looking for in this law is that all those publishers, who published textbooks, who did not match the interests of the Serbian people and who did not respond to the fact that they were denied the license for the given action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53434	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 MPs, of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the traffic safety law on the roads submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53435	I thank the chairman. At the previous session of the National Assembly, we had amendments and additions to the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads and when I saw that such a law had come into the process, I thought and looked forward to the fact that this law would cover a problem that was in place for a long time in the Road Safety Act. However, I have seen that there is nothing of it, that this law included some other things, where the government wanted to court our peasants through some, let's say, benefits, which were provided for them in the registration of these agricultural and connected machines. For this reason, I have submitted this bill for amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, because the practice has shown that this law in one of its specific provisions is inconclusive and contradictory and that it causes major problems when a car accident occurs, simply, in some situations it is impossible to determine who is responsible for the cause of the car accident. In fact, it's about a member of the 47th existing law that talks about the passing championship at intersections, and I wouldn't go into those details right now, we're all mostly drivers, we know these basic rules of traffic regulation at intersections, but the law here is unarranged, that in some situations it's literally not quite clear who has the championship. There is a situation where lawyers interpret this Law in one way, while people in the traffic profession interpret it in a completely different way and literally cannot identify a vinic of a car accident. For this reason, I asked that this bill be placed on the agenda, that the government, or the competent resolution ministry, consider this and make a decision that meets traffic rules. However, we still have one of the traffic laws on the agenda today, however, does not directly refer to traffic regulation itself, refers to the transport of passengers in road traffic, but as far as I can see, no one has thought about this seriously. So, I urge the government's representatives to look at this proposal of my law and put it on the agenda, if not as my proposal, then at least, let them rewrite it and make it a proposal from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53436	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 MPs of the total number of 158 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Supported Fertilisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53437	Thank you, Chairman. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. The average age of the population in our republic is 43 years. The Republic of Serbia has fewer than 35 to 38 thousand inhabitants each year. So one municipality disappears annually as a result of negative natural growth. In the fifties of the last century, 160,000 children were born, and today 100,000 children are born less, meaning slightly more than 60,000. The number of Serbians has fallen below seven million, and if this continues, in 40 years we will have three million inhabitants less than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have infertility problems, we come to the conclusion that the Law on Medical Aided Insemination was extremely important, and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Fighting infertility can be very long and exhausting. Those who are going through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary documentation to get a commission to enter the process. In addition, medical analysis is often not possible in the home hospital, since there are no conditionals, so couples are forced to do them in private. There's a lot of hospitals in the interior like that. In particular, the Smederjevska Palanca hospital, where I come from, does not run 80% of the analysis required for the committee to enter the process. I appeal to the health minister that all the hospitals in Serbia equipment so that all analyses for biomedically assisted fertilisation can also be done in a way that reduces the cost of preparation and reduces the time that is valuable in this case. Then, the problem of the age line. Why limit it? It should be allowed for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. The age limit can negatively affect the psyche of a woman fighting for offspring, and it is known that one of the most important factors is precisely the psychological state of the woman. Third, but no less important problem to regulate by law is to allow biomedically assisted fertilisation both to couples and women who have already become parents. Here I mean not only couples and women who became parents with the help of biomedically assisted fertilization, but also those couples who received their child by natural conception. It is not uncommon for a woman to become a mother and then to become medically complicated and not be able to remain in a different condition. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if there was a problem and the only chance that they would become parents again was a biomedically assisted insemination? This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 63, which in its first position says that everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and attitude 2 that the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide to give birth and help them do so. One more sentence. Please support this proposal because of the alarming demographic image and support of all who are going through this struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53438	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Gilas, multimillionaire, billionaire, in photography together with Miskovic. I believe they are the two richest men in Serbia, and many, like me, believe that. Ladies and gentlemen, respected viewers, rich people don't like their people. The best evidence is not even that much Miskovic, but Dragan Gilas. Certainly, those who came here last Saturday could see for themselves even those who were willing to support one of the richest people in Serbia. Dragan Gilas, at a time when he performed his public office in his public work in the City of Belgrade, made a minus 1.2 billion euros. They say he's capable. He's only capable of his private company where he put together a public office and a private firm. The capable man, Belgrade, has lagged behind, as our young people say, for 1.2 billion euros, while at the same time earning 500m euros or 60 billion dinars in the accounts of his companies. He's so capable, he sleeps in his rich pockets from the poor. The highway they didn't build was built only on the highway towards the pockets of Democrats, Droccrats, especially Gilas. Nine tapes led to Dragan Gilas' pockets. That's how he's a billionaire's job. Bill Gates gave 95% of his fortune to the poor, even though we know how he made the money. Dragan Gilas kidnapped 95% or 100% of his wealth from the poor, fired and underpaid. I'm asking that a survey committee be set up because of his malfeasances for Sollac and David Petreus, former CIA chief and former military commander in Afghanistan. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask REM to stand on its feet. If you have noticed the opposition's second request, the first is to place a party, to mark a party, to regain domination in REM. Why? I'll try to explain that now, but also in later reporting. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the said troika is via SBB, cable operator, using state resources, where Telekom was stationed, and REM worked in their favor, REM listened to them instead of them listening to REM. In this way they acquired 900,000 subscribers in Serbia and took over 54% of the cable system market. Telecom has only 25% left in the state firm. I'll continue on the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53440	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53441	Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue. Alexandra Jerkov passed CIA training. The CIA sent us N1 television, which is a cross-border channel. Dragan Gilas, Solak and Deri Petreus, 54%, as cable operator, acquired 900 000 subscribers that each year deposit more than 120m euros in SBB. In doing so, the SBB uses 90% of domestic TV and domestic programs, which pay nothing. Remember, they don't pay anything, and they use 90% of their programs, including these national TVs. So, the programme was produced by gratis, and they picked up 120m euros. Now it needs to be pumped up, so the gentlemen realized they were using cross-border channels on the other hand and there was an International Re-emission Agreement. Under the agreement, these channels have no right to broadcast revised programmes on Serbia's territory. So, it's not allowed to insert ads, it's not allowed to have a studio in Belgrade, which is what N1 television has, which "Sport Club" has, therefore, not allowed by cross-border channels. The domestic program is used and paid nothing, and the cross-border channels, the ones connected to Solak, Gilas and Petreus pay for the broadcast. So they take home people's subscription, domestic channels use free channels, and foreign cross-border channels pay for SBB broadcasting. That's how they pump up those 120m euros that end up in Gilasovo, Solak and Petreus pockets. There's nothing Petreus invested here. We invested. The money was taken from citizens, kidnapped by Telecom, where Radukko was supported by REM, whose lineup was set by Dragan Gilas, Solak and Derri Petres. The electronic media regulator did not do his job, that the radio should have banned N1 television, "Sport Club" and all cross-border televisions that changed the programme. That wasn't enough for them, they never had enough. The rich people are like seawater, the more they drink, the more they are thirsty, and then they realize that by recasting cross-border television programs, which are banned by the International Agreement, they're putting in ads that don't pay taxes, Gilas's commercials are probably, 10,000 seconds each bigger on "Sport Club" goes to cross-border television where income goes out as well as that subscription. In the end, by paying the cross-border channels, they show loss here and if they have 54% of the market, Telecom with 25% achieves profit, they show loss because they pump up money and put it in their pockets. That's why the opposition is asking, their request is the main REM, and we don't need to give it to them, and we need to ban all cross-border channels, including N1 that don't re-emission the program, but they're modifying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53442	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake "state of Kosovo", an influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53443	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk about "reiz ephendi" "wolve the descendant". (Vojislav Seselj: About who? ) ‘Reiz Effendii’. Translated, that means Minister of Split, ex, ex-ex. "Reiz efendija" Vuk Jeremic, "Wolf descendant" "Murat age pozderca". So, ladies and gentlemen, before the 2008 elections, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas, agreed at the US Embassy. They asked the US Embassy to postpone the declaration of Kosovo Albanian independence, so that Kosovo Albanians do not do so until the presidential elections are over and Boris Tadic is elected. The U.S. Embassy met them and they returned it later. One way they returned it was by the International Court of Justice, by seeking opinions that we didn't need at all. Thanks to the opinion today, Albanians are calling for their independence, that it is legal and legitimate, because Vuk Jeremic "the Wolf" asked for that opinion and it was against the Republic of Serbia, and he knew in advance that the International Court of Justice was made up of judges from countries that recognised Kosovo and Metohija. So in a certain way, along with this group, I think he did an act of high treason, and I'm asking that a survey committee be set up and that all of this be examined. Ladies and gentlemen, even today, Vuk Jeremic, whom I call "reiz efendi" "Wolf descendant" has support, say Muhamed Cengic, who is a member of the Muslim brotherhood. So he asks that Vuk Jeremic be elected president of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that citizens will not allow it. It's about a hysterical person who was screaming so much here on Saturday, and he must have been hurt by those foreign cigarettes of 1,500 euros, and I believe, my dear viewers, that Vuk Jeremic, who had previously had dinner at an expensive restaurant, those shorts of lobster got stuck in his throat, so he threatened and screamed so much while doing so Saturday at the rally of the opposition and the citizens who participated in that rally should know that the overrich Vuk Jeremic "Wolve descendant" is not on their side, but against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53444	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention, voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and "The Storm", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished viewers, this photograph speaks for itself. So this greeting is not appropriate for the Serbian people. So, this is Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, next to her, Bosko Ljotic is happy with the smile. It is a greeting that is not unique to the Serbian people and has never been. Perhaps that Marisavo Petrovic of the Fifth Squad, perhaps Bosca Ljotic, and here you can see Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who welcomes this unauthorized greeting, is trying to welcome the citizens gathered. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about her two statements. One of the statements directly violates the National Assembly document, that Srebrenica was a major crime, but not genocide. With the statement that Srebrenica, the Srebrenica case, was genocide, she severely violated the National Assembly Act. I think the board of inquiry should deal with it. Also, I declare that "Storm" where 250,000 Serbs were expelled, thousands were killed, including women and children, old people and old women, by saying that it was a humanitarian action, I think she has said enough, and that it is also in favour of forming a survey board to investigate the damages that she has done to us in making such statements as about the state, as about the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53446	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the non-intentional spending of the funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53447	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have two papers here. This is a money laundering scheme, according to Bosko Obradovic, called Bosko Ljotic, a bully from his party, and the funds came from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, after the election campaign, were to be returned to the republican budget, damaged the republican budget by 30 million dinars, i.e. how he laundered the money through fictitious business with entrepreneurial actions. Here's the scheme. The same day, he transferred all the money to corporate stores. The money was raised for fictitious jobs and returned to Bosca Obradovic. So, for example, only for electro-rads, alleged electro-rads, he pumped a total of 5,665,000 on four occasions. On operations in Borca, related to certain Cvianovics, who opened up entrepreneurial shops and who were candidates on his list, a total of 9,698,496 dinars were pumped. Also, through law offices, which he paid 700 and a half million dinars for, in total, three million 260 thousand dinars. Also, from the funds of the republican budget, which did not return, through business with the design of entrepreneurial operations, it pumped up three million and 900 thousand and 600 dinars first and then a total of three million and 400, which is a sum of seven million and 600 dinars. The criminal application we submitted for a total of 28 million 690 thousand dinars, currently working for the CAP, and I believe that in some way they should be given support and since it is the case that he is trying to show as a political opponent that he is a political victim, in fact it is a criminal act, that in such a way he is trying to avoid responsibility, which we cannot allow. Also, not to report again, he is known for making alliances with political organisations from Croatia, a very extreme labour front, with Muhamed Cengic of Tuzla, Bulgaria's Atak, with a neo-Nazi organisation from Germany. It is not a practice for political organisations in Serbia to work and therefore I think that the committees should deal with its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53448	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 MPs out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 147 MPs from the 153 MPs present in total. I find this proposal not accepted. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: Proposal for a law on the conversion of residential loans indexed in the Swiss francs, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia and Rondex Finance, Inc. on the Regulation of the Republic of Serbia to the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the European Union to the European Union and the Government on the activities of the Republic of Serbia ofSerbia , which has submitted to theGovernments ; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic ofSerbia ; the Law on the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofthe Does MP Alexander Markovic want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs out of the 153 MPs present. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Swiss francs, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Czech Republic, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Rondex Finance, Inc. on the regulation of the unmistakable debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Rondex Finance, Inc. from the period of clearing the payment made by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the activities of the French Development Agency and the PROPARCO institution in Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d., Commercial Banka a.d. and Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on a loan for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of the South Stream Serbia AG, Zug, Switzerland, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law amending the Airport Management Act, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on transporting passengers in road transport, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and water, which was submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on international road traffic, which was submitted by the Government; 12/4BD/MJ 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, which was submitted by the Government; 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things entered in the Register, which was submitted by the Government; 17. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of posts in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens, which has been tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs; 18. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of posts in the Professional Service of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Joint principled single search on proposals for acts from points. from the 1st to the 18th agenda. First notice of those invited to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the members of the National Assembly are invited to attend all members of the Government, with associates, and this: Slavica Savičić and Jelena Tanasković, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Finance; Bojana Stanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boraška and Social Affairs; Miodrag Poledica and Aleksandra Damnjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Milica Ćatić, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior; Zoran Ilic, Jovanka Atanacković and Djordje Milić, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Dusan Vučković, Assistant Minister of Industry; Darko Komnenic and Verica Ignatović, Deputy Minister of Finance; Lazar Radaković and Saša Stojanović, Deputy Minister of Defence of Infrastructure, Minister of Infrastructure and Infrastructure, Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Infrastructure and Civil Engineering. Assistant Minister of Justice; Ana Tripović, Head of the Office of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance; Luka Tomic, Head of the Office of Finance; Stojanka Vučković, Head of the Office of the Minister of Industry; Gordana Savic, Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance; Zorica Vulić, Head of the Border Police at the Ministry of Interior; Bojan Terzic, from the National Bank of Serbia; Irena Injac, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance; Sava Gavranovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs; Vladimir Vinš, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Justice; Miladin Maglov, registrator; Ruzica Macukata, Deputy Register of Business Entigator at the Agency for Business Registers and Ivana Jančković, graduate lawyer. I'm opening a joint search. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the conversion of residential credits indexed in the Swiss francs, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Law of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for the provision of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the so-called General Bank of Serbia, Belgrade, the Commercial Bank of Belgrade and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of France of Serbia on the Law on activities of the Law and the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of theRepublic , the Republic to the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Law of the Republic of the Republic to the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic ofSerbia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic tothe Do the representatives of the promoters, all members of the government, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, and MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? First of all, do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53449	The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, is ahead of you with a bill on the conversion of residential loans indexed in the Swiss francs, which solves the problem of citizens who have residential loans in that currency after more than a decade. This leks specialis is a compromise solution between several citizens' stakeholders, i.e. associations representing them, banks and third-party states. The bill will cover all the users of these loans that we have insisted as a state, and in order to enable all citizens who have this problem to resolve it permanently. In the last few weeks, this topic, as you know, has been very relevant in public, so they could hear different opinions. Some economists believe that taking credit is an individual decision and that the state, or all taxpayers, should not pay someone's wrong moves. It certainly is an individual decision, but on the other hand we shouldn't let people stay on the street without a roof over their heads if there's room and opportunity to help them. I would remind you that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, visited the people in charge in front of the Supreme Cassation Court three weeks ago and promised to find a solution to their problem. The talks that followed were not easy at all, but we managed to find a compromise, so today we keep the promise that the president made at the time. I think, given the circumstances, we've found the best possible solution for all three sides. In recent weeks, we could also hear criticism from the opposition who are now reportedly worried about these people's problems. It is hypocritical and sad that they are trying to take advantage of the difficult and ruthless situation in which the people in charge are in charge, criticising the executive power and thus trying to gain cheap political points. These are, to remind you, the same people who, while in power, encouraged citizens to take loans in Swiss francs, and today, when in opposition, since they have no ideas and programs, are just trying to draw attention to themselves using those same citizens that they cheated on just 10 or 12 years ago. I'm interested in what they're going to say today, today when we're solving this problem, today when state finances are stable enough and when we have money that we're going to single out for this purpose. I'll remind you that just a few years ago this wouldn't be possible. The cash they left us was completely empty. We had to put our public finances into order first, in order to get to the point where we could solve inherited problems, including the problems of citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. At the end of this opening part, I would remind you of some of the macroeconomic results that we have achieved, and thanks to which we can talk today about this law. In the first three months of this year, we achieved a budget surplus of 15.8 billion dinars, although we had a planned deficit of 19 billion dinars. That's almost 35 billion dinars better than the budget plan. So 300m euros better than we planned in the first quarter of this year. I will also remind you that last year we had a 4.3% growth of our GDP and that we left behind almost all the countries in the region, including some EU members. We have worse results than Croatia, and Romania, and Bulgaria, and Slovakia, and BiH, and Northern Macedonia, and Albania. Public debt at the end of March was 50.8% of GDP, and in 2015 it was over 70% of our GDP. In addition, the total value of foreign direct investment last year amounted to 3.5 billion euros, while all other countries in the region attracted a total of 1.9 billion, with unemployment being double as low as in 2013, thus falling from a record 25.9 per cent. It remains high but every day we fight for new jobs and new factories and better quality of life for Serbian citizens. Dear People's MPs, based on these good macroeconomic results, you today have a Lex Specialis, a law that solves the problems in the Swiss francs, which according to the credit bureau data has exactly 15.785. Now I'm going to refer to some of the main provisions of the proposed law. The bill stipulates that the remaining part of the consumer's debt is converted into the euro after which the amount obtained by conversion will be reduced by 38%. The additional relief is also the fact that the calculation of the conversion is carried out on a zero-stricken basis and we insisted on it as a state. Also, although there was a tendency to limit the scope of the law's application, it will apply to all existing users in charge of the Swiss francs. As regards interest rates, the bank is obliged to apply an interest rate to the amount obtained by conversion according to the bank’s offer on 31 March 2019 for loans indexed in euro of the same type and manual. For those banks that did not have housing loans or had disproportionately large and high interest rates, the limit of 3.4% plus a three-month or six-month euro-difference for variable interest rates and a 4% limit for fixed interest rates was applied. By limiting the rate of interest, we'll be able to minimise the risk of further credit payments. According to this law, the bank is obliged to submit within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law an offer to the user, together with an indicative accounting. On the other hand, users who decide to accept the conversion obligation to notify the bank of their decision within 30 days of the receipt of the documents mentioned. If the user does not decide on the conversion of credit payments, it shall continue to comply with the existing credit agreement. Users who opt for conversion, and this is very important, will not bear any additional costs such as public notebooks and cadastres, and all existing security funds remain in place. Parietal proceedings the subject of which is disputed with respect to the currency clause shall be suspended on the date of entry into force of the law until the end of the period within which the user may choose a conversion. At the same time, all executions in the coercion procedure, i.e. the extrajudicial settlement, shall be postponed from the date of entry of this law until the expiry of the deadline mentioned above. The separation of the state for the purpose of applying this law will amount to up to 11.7 billion dinars in case all users accept the proposed solution. It is not small money but it is money that we have at our disposal thanks to the responsible economic policy and we want to use it to help the citizens of Serbia. The supervision of the application of this law will be carried out by the NBS. Dear People's MPs, I hope that in the voting day you will support this bill's proposal to finally close this story that plagues thousands of families throughout our country. On the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, this law is in line with Article 52. The law on pre-school education and education, which stipulates that the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries in pre-school institutions cannot be lower than the basis for the calculation and payment of basic education and education. In this way, salaries of preschool employees will be increased by 9% compared to the December 2018 salary and instead of the 7% so far, starting with the May 2019 salary paid in June of this year. This is very important and good news for employees of preschool institutions across Serbia, and I think this decision will be pleased. The financial effects of this law on local government budgets will be 382m dinars. You are also facing today the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the regulation of debt and the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and Rondex Finance. The unregulated debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Czech Republic, which stems from a period of clearing the way in which goods and services are paid between the former SFRY and the former Czech Republic and the Slovak Federal Republic for years, has stood as an open issue in the relations of the two countries, it is an unscheduled state debt of the former SFRY that is to be divided between all the countries of the Succcessor, and in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on the Succession issue signed on 29 June 2001. However, as the Committee for the Distribution of Financial Activities and Passives of the former SFRY reached no consensus on the division, the Republic of Serbia independently in bilateral negotiations at international level regulated a part of the debt first with the Czech Republic and then with the trustee Rondex Finance. Serbia's initial debt to the Czech Republic amounted to 32.7m US dollars but was reduced to 9.8m after the negotiations, which is a reduction of the Republic of Serbia's commitments by 70%. Also, given that from the initial $10.9m, the debt that will be paid once to the trustee of Rondex Finance, reduced to 3.2m, is a reduction in the obligations of the Republic of Serbia of about 70%, which is also an optimal deal reached on our part. The next item on the agenda is the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the activities of the French Agency for Development and Society for Promotion and Participation in Economic Cooperation in the Republic of Serbia. The agreement regulates the establishment of the AFDG Group's representation in Serbia to improve and realise their activities. This group is otherwise engaged in providing official assistance to the developing countries of the Republic of France and is active in more than 80 countries through a network of about 60 local offices. The ADF supports economic growth through providing financial and technical assistance as well as investments under the agreement and the legal framework of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account national priorities for international development assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the Parliament today are on the agenda and the Law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Social Generale Bank, the Commercial Bank and the Vojvodjanska Banka to meet the commitments of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas". It is a "Serbian" task under a loan agreement to build gas pipelines on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with Serbia through investment in the capital of the South Stream Serbia AG. The loan amount is 70m euros, and a six-year return period including a two-year start-up period. The gas pipeline is part of an international project delivering natural gas from the Russian Federation to the countries of Southeast and Central Europe. The adoption of this law is a prerequisite for business banks to grant loans to JP "Srbigas" as well as payment of appropriations. The honourable MPs before you today are also the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law. Given the importance and interest of our country in additional employment of workers, and thus strengthening our economy and economy, the MUP has drawn up a draft law on amendments to the Foreign Law and in order to enable foreign citizens to obtain work permits in the Republic of Serbia according to a simplified procedure. The simplified procedure for obtaining a work permit provides for the possibility for a foreigner who has been granted a longer stay visa based on employment to exercise the right to employment in accordance with regulations governing the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. It is also another newspaper in this law that prescribes the possibility for a foreign citizen to apply for a temporary stay both by electronic means and by means of electronic means, by means of electronic means, by means of a regulation. The possibility of submitting this request by electronic means is also foreseen in the event that a foreign citizen submits an application from abroad, which speeds up the process of obtaining the approval of the temporary stay of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. This proposal for a law provides for a single administrative place for the submission of a joint request for a temporary stay and a permit for the work of a stranger, so that a party submits a request for approval, i.e. an extension of a foreigner’s temporary stay with a request for a work permit, either personally or electronically, to the competent authority in a prescribed form. I would like to point out once again that the proposed law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law will create the necessary conditions for further simplification of administrative procedures when issuing a work permit to a foreigner, and in order to create an even more favourable business environment, by increasing competitiveness and further attracting foreign investment, as one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will also contribute to the opening of our labour market and capital markets for new ideas, new technologies and strengthening our country's economic potential. Dear MPs, I hope that in the voting day you will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53450	Thank you, Minister Mali. The word now has a minister of labour, employment, social policy and martial arts, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53451	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, Mr Ministers and Miss Ministers, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Employment of Foreigners was adopted at the end of 2014, and positive effects of its application were noticeable in the first years following its entry into force. By the time it was passed, the 1978 Law was in place, when an average of around 1,500 permits for the work of foreigners were issued on an annual basis. Since the start of the new law, i.e. from December 2014 until today, the National Employment Service has issued a total of 33,167 work permits, both new and extended. The very application of the Law in practice raised certain questions, so that, in December 2017 and June 2018, a precision of certain provisions of this law was made, and in order to simplify procedures, to issue work permits and to facilitate the application of rules in practice. These third amendments to the Law on the Employment of Foreigners further specify certain provisions of the law and contribute to a more efficient implementation of the rules and more efficient handling of competent authorities, which has a positive impact on the further development of a more favourable business environment and attracts foreign investment. This proposal for a law is followed simultaneously by amendments and additions to the Foreign Law, which simplifys the procedure when obtaining the temporary residence authorisation and specify the provisions governing the supply of longer-stay visas based on employment. By harmonising the provisions of the Law on the Employment of Foreigners and the Law on Foreigners, the employer shall be able to initiate a procedure for issuing a work permit before the National Employment Service during the duration of the visa authorisation procedure for longer stay. Therefore, while the stranger is still in the process of obtaining a longer stay visa based on employment, i.e. while he is still abroad, the employer may take the necessary activities before the National Employment Service and in order to issue an appropriate work permit. The draft law also provides for the combined conduct of the National Employment Service when extending the work permit for posted persons and working permits for movement within a company, as well as the possibility of issuing a work permit to a foreigner who has been granted a longer stay visa based on employment. The combined conduct of the National Employment Service implies that the burden of obtaining the necessary documentation, obtaining the prior opinion of the relevant Ministry of Justice on the eligibility of the extension of those types of work permits and the consent of the Ministry of Employment Affairs shall be transferred to the National Employment Service, thereby simplifying the procedure and making it significantly easier for the employer to extend the work permit. The law is just a real signal that the Republic of Serbia is a country of accelerated development and that there is interest for foreigners to work in it, as well as foreign investors to invest and transfer their knowledge to domestic employers in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, and I believe that in the voting day you will support and vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53452	Thank you, Minister. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53453	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, dear MPs and MPs. From the area covered by the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure before you is a set of laws, almost seven, proposed laws on amendments and additions. They are all equally important and cover the area that needs to help us create a better, even better environment for investing in Serbia, an even better environment in which jobs can be done and new jobs are created. I'll put an accent on a few amendments and a bill. One of them is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure in the water immovableity catalogue. Serbia is a country that has, above all, not only a stable political situation but has a stable budget and in this sense, we have been preparing big, start-up major infrastructure projects for the past few years. What we could see from the new Law on Planning and Construction and everything we did in the previous period, where it was quite clear that Serbia had done much at the speed of issuing building permits, the location conditions, in the end, it is also measured on the lists of Duing businesses, where Serbia was, compared to 2014, when it was second but later, in 184th place, today on 11th place in the world after the issue of construction permits, we thought, however, that just line infrastructure facilities that are very important for our country's economic development must be realised much faster in that section called licensing. The essence of changing and supplementing these two laws concerns two things – how to shorten time and how to reduce costs, since certain processes will work parallelly. I will only remind you that the value of new infrastructure projects that we will start in 2019 and all the coming years is measured by billions of euros, and we are talking about the value of current and potential infrastructure projects of 16 billion euros, both in the area of road traffic, rail traffic, water transport and air traffic. We also think that amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction exist and changes concerning the functioning of the Engineering Chamber. We consider it a really important chamber and we want to speed up, too, the process, practically, everything that this Engineering Chamber needs to give us. Serbia needs engineers in all areas, but these engineers should work together, and we hope they will be involved in all these major infrastructure projects that we will be working on. The next law is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. The fact is that in Serbia we cannot be absolutely sure, but the estimates say that in road traffic, the grey economy is estimated somewhere at between 80m and 100m euros, which are primarily estimates of both the carrier and the ministry. Everything we do in the field of road traffic, every law that we have proposed, and these changes today, are only going towards one goal, and that is to reduce every kind of opportunity for the gray economy to appear, and even when it does, in terms of changing the law, we try to completely eliminate it and reduce it. All that applies to the part of this law is, above all, in line with European standards, which is also important. So we are reducing the possibility of carrying out illegal transport that de facto still exists in Serbia in some areas. I will remind you that for the first time we had such a law in 2015 and that we didn't even know the number of cableways we had in Serbia. After this law, today we can say that we have 70 cableways for the transport of persons, and of which 42 cableways are in the jurisdiction of JP "Smugar Ski resort" and for 28 owners and holders of founding rights are private legal and natural persons. We are changing the law, i.e. we have amendments and amendments to the law above all to bring it into line, because in the meantime there have been amendments to some other laws, which is why it is necessary for this law to be in line with that law. And of course, first and only in each of these traffic laws, security comes first, and also in this law. The draft law amending the Law on Airport Management has, above all, one major change, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed an "Serbian Airports" enterprise so that all of those airports, except "Nikola Tesla", would be part of the company, so that we could invest together in all airports in Serbia. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is directly, together with the city of Nis, responsible for today at Nis airport, let's say, of the 1,000 passengers that were in 2014, this year we believe that we will count about 380-400 000, and hopefully next year there will be about half a million of them. However, it is not only Nis, there is Morava airport, there is Bohr airport, there is also talk about Zrenjanin airport and our thinking was, and that is why this bill is ahead of you, the amendment of the law is that the headquarters of the "Serbian Airport" company is not in Belgrade, but to be in Nis. I hope you can honestly support that. The next draft law is the establishment of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on international road traffic. We have an old agreement that's in effect where we had cargo transport, or you had to have licenses so we could even carry out cargo transport. In this case, therefore, we have reached an agreement with Britain that there are no licenses, no restrictions, or a liberalised freight transport. Lastly, it is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Business Registers, part of our Action Plan for Better Business, to improve business in the Republic of Serbia. So the part about self-implementation of "Douin Business". So, the newspaper in this amendment and the addition of the Law is, above all, an electronic application. Conditions are being created for establishing an online system for registration, change, situation and all that is going on in that sense. I hope, too, that we will have a good and good debate. I hope you will support amendments and additions to these laws. Somewhere, looking at the construction and traffic sector, I think that in the previous period we have shown that any changes to the law that has been defined have been defined because we have seen in practice what we can do even more, even better, even more effectively so that no one who invests in Serbia would wait for a single day to issue, or create conditions for its investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53454	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? In order, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53455	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you today about these proposals that Zorana Mihajlovic appeared with, because somehow I prefer to discuss it, to destroy it professionally to the end, and to mention, by the way, a pre-contract on the construction of the highway from Cačka to Pojat with an American company that is 300m euros more expensive than the Chinese offered. But the emergency has forced me, since 18 points of the agenda have been combined, to concentrate only on the law with which Minister Mali came to the session today, which is the law that has the attribute of the lex specialis here, and I would add that it is an anti-constitutional legal project and if you vote today, or tomorrow, the SRS will open proceedings before the Constitutional Court. This law cannot be found in our legal order, because it leads to a terrible inequality of citizens, discrimination against citizens. First, the vast majority of citizens who have not entered into any credit debt compared to those who have entered loans with Swiss francs are being discriminated against, and then the people who have entered loans in Swiss francs are being discriminated against. Those who took those loans were deceived and there was the responsibility of the state, so there was supposed to be Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank. It wasn't brought in in her time, but she's been governor for seven years, and she didn't do anything to solve this problem. Some countries that have smart authority, like Hungary, have solved the problem. We could have solved the problem that way, but admit it, you are afraid of the EU's reaction. You're afraid of getting hit by a chapter right now, and that's why you started this way with caution, hasty, and, in fact, against the law. People, hundreds of families are out of apartments. Their apartments are sold for good because they couldn't pay interest in Swiss francs, and you don't solve their question at all. What's it got to do? All these bogeymans must make a good call to their minds, to cancel the purchase contracts that these citizens' apartments sell for a bogeyman, to get their housing back to the owners. In our system, foreign banks are very privileged. They're basically just corporate taxpayers and they're willing to decide whether or not the profits will show up, if any of them even show up. They're very privileged. I don't think all these banks should be expelled, but it should have been long ago in prison for Mladjan Dinkic, who, by one decree, abolished all the domestic banks and opened the space to foreign banks, so we Serbs became white slaves, and those foreign banks robbed us both black under the nails and carried away and no one stopped it, no one controls it. What solution would be right? I don't think we should drive out all the foreign banks now, so you don't get me wrong, they're here to move on, but rationally. They shouldn't be at a loss, but they can't be at a loss or a citizen who's been cheated. Here, I asked around the Internet, interest in the German banks is when you take a loan about 3.5% a year, maybe a smaller one, maybe you can do 3%, so you bargain with them, and somewhere you can do 2.5%, but to figure out one medium amount that banks in Germany give, is that 3%? (Kedomir Jovanovic: When we are Germany.) No, when we're Germany, but not to damage foreign banks, it's to be here as if the loans had been placed in Germany. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Aren't they? I don't care if they're not. They deceived the citizens and our Supreme Court of Cassation found that the zero loans that were made here in Swiss were paid in dinars. It was a scam, it's a felony, you borrow someone's dinars, and you write in a receipt that you loaned him Swiss francs or the euro. It's a criminal act. Here, these finance experts, you know it's a crime? You know, but keep your head down and you don't care. Minister Mali knows it well, I admit to him that he has knowledge of finance. (Kedomir Jovanovic: And the economy. And economics and finance. The economy is a general concept, and finance is their kind. Hey, kid, I'm gonna teach you this one special lecture, so don't get involved now. (Kedomir Jovanovic: We can also be in charge of laundry.) I can do it in my underwear. The ruby is currently a strong currency, so you know Chado. What could we do here, then, to take this whole pile of credit and to recalculate, and not only loans in Swiss francs, but also in euro, if it was done against the law, if the credit was fictitiously accounted for in foreign currency and paid in domestic currency and if the bank didn't have a cover at that time in that foreign currency, it didn't bother to look for that foreign currency at all. For example, I lend you 100,000 dinars, or 120,000 dinars, and I write that it's 1000 euros, and I don't have that 1,000 euros, I only have dinars. So, recalculation and to see how much boredom anyone has paid. Whoever paid off the principal and for all these years an interest of 2.5%, 3% or 3.5% depending on how the ministry determines, has nothing left to pay, it ended. The bank isn't damaged. This is a fair solution, and we are solving a situation that is illegal and citizens are not guilty of the illegality of the situation, but banks are guilty. Now, I know, if we arrest the bank executives responsible in those banks, the banks will flee Serbia. We don't need to do that, but banks should also be held accountable and told – we're not exactly oxes, so you can come with us however you want. You can only comply with our laws and principles of justice. What does that mean if someone bought an apartment worth 50,000 euros and paid it 150 or 200 grand? This is what the state needs to intervene immediately and protect the citizen, to prevent it. We must build a social state, not a state that was left up to date in 2000, a state that is against citizens, who is against workers, who is against peasants, against students, against the unemployed, who serves only the interests of foreign capital and domestic tycoons, who have destroyed or robbed everything. That's the point. Whether you do it or not, that's the question now. We're gonna get you to the Constitutional Court, because we're not gonna let this go on like that. You see, you're taking on your own responsibilities. I see here you cited the proposal from 2020 to 2023, 380 million dinars per year on behalf of the cost of interest to provide them with the budget, and in 2024, 10 billion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't have the right to pay money for these things. You have no right and don't do it. Then we'll file a criminal report. Leave the budget alone. In the budget, all citizens and the budget should be spent in the interests of all citizens, not that foreign banks and domestic criminals are covered in this way. Next, gentlemen, if you leave these citizens, hundreds of families, who have lost their homes, who are now homeless, including suicides, many have fired, children have lost their income, if you let it pass, who is responsible? The banks don't care. Foreign banks have been bareing our capitalism here. What we read in time at Friedrich Engels- The position of the working class in England, they are here in Serbia. Are we going to look at it? Shall we look further at the training of workers in our country, peasants, will we continue to deal with only the quality of diapers, which some of these factories offer to workers in order to be more productive, not to waste time on physiological needs and to work for eight hours a machine? We can't do that. Our citizens are our most impediment, but also our insistence on justice and justice. They don't need any damage. Let Chad hit his head as much as he wants, the head echoes, but there's not much content in it to upset us, to make something not too excited, to get wet. So I know that foreign interests don't respond to this kind of thing, but this is the only patriotic solution, and this is the only right aspect of morality. If we're going to allow green loans, it's going to go to hell. You know how these green loans were made before? You borrow a thousand dinars and you sign that you borrowed five grand. There are other contracts like that. There's still forced collection of such loans. That's not even the police were able to contain it. With us banks have become the main mobsters in this regard. He can't. It just can't stop. The sooner we stop them, the easier it'll be. Maybe some of them will lift the anchor and leave. Most people won't be safe. As long as we let them make an average profit here, so a little more than that average profit, they'll have an interest in staying, because it's not easy to place capital in the world today. There are countries with huge capital that have nowhere to place it, especially China. And as long as that's the situation, we don't have to be afraid. If one bank goes, two other sides will come and that's it. Free competition, but full protection of citizens. You need to bring the whole system of social laws as soon as possible. Guys, that's what we had in communism. In 1978, a law was passed that made it impossible for a certain number of square meters to be taken away in the event of man’s execution. You remember that, Miatovic. (Milorad Mijatovic: Of course not. You wrote those laws back then. (Milorad Mijatovic: How could I not and respect what you're saying. I knew it. A certain number of square meters per man, per household member, cannot be taken away. You can't take more than two-thirds of the salary, right? You can't take more than half your pension on a bill. They used to charge me some court fees forgotten while I was still on the official trip. The lawyer didn't pay for something, so it piled up, so in two months, two entire salaries were cut off by me and by the length of that public executioner. I'll come and do it sometime. I won't warn him in advance. I'm looking for everything, come back, and I'm done. So, the social state that we create, where a citizen will feel protected, that he has some rights and that no one can cheat on him in a systematic way. Have all the Swiss debtors been cheated? (Kedomir Jovanovic: No. Everyone's been cheated. (Kedomir Jovanovic: No. Everyone's been cheated. (Kedomir Jovanovic: They knew what they were doing. They didn't know what they were doing. They've been double-crossed. They're being persuaded. The government has persuaded them. The ministers talked them into it. What was that minister's name? Is he a Parisian? (Cedomir Jovanovic: Parivodić. It is. They're forced to go into such loans. They were promised it was the best. (Kadomir Jovanovic: It was then. He can't – it was then, so it's not anymore. A citizen must have social security. Was it then? Well, then the citizen's trying to gamble. It's gambling. He can't force a citizen to gamble. Hohstuplers can push for gambling, but the state can't. Ministers can't. What's up, kid? (Kedomir Jovanovic: You used to have healthy economic attitudes. You'll cost these economic attitudes dearly when I begin to tab them on your papers. (Kadomir Jovanovic: I have everything in my underwear.) You'd be fine if it was all in your underwear. Then you'd be the safest. (Borisav Kovačević: This is not your bar! What's the matter? I can't hear you. (Borisav Kovacevic: You are talking to each other. What the hell are you always complaining about? You're 100 years old, you're blowing our brains out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53456	It's all right. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53457	Here, I'm going on. So, you must have taken some credit, too, so it hit your forehead. Is that right? Yeah, I knew it, but it's not your fault. I only took a loan once in my life, when I was very young, and when I went to prison in 1984, I settled down to the last dinar so the jury wouldn't have to pay me. So to simplify this and to narrow down, the state has, above all, a moral obligation but also a legal obligation to solve this problem. She has to solve it in a constitutional and legal way within the legal system, not a Lex special. The state has to solve this problem so it never happens again. The state has to solve this problem to achieve an educational function, to teach citizens something from this example, this experience, but also from foreign banks to learn that we are not oxes, that we have brains and that we can't be used to them. The state has to do it as soon as possible and the state can't pay a dime for this. This must all be covered by the planned extra profit from foreign banks from the realised extra profit of foreign banks, and of course from the regular profit they expected based on the higher interest rate at which they place loans in Serbia, rather than the interest rate in most EU countries. That's exactly what you can do. I suppose you have professional people in the ministry who will account for all this, the National Bank must engage, and then change the governor of the National Bank. Why was she inactive so far? Why was she passive so far? Why didn't she even care? He must answer to the National Assembly for that. That's what I had to tell you. As far as these other laws are concerned, let me just point out, you have gone back to the old ones, although yesterday was a consultation meeting of representatives of parliamentary groups with National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, where you promised to change the Rules of Procedure. You are reuniting the agenda points without having any connection to each other, 18 points of the agenda, instead of having a special discussion on each agenda point. These discussions would not be so long, but they should have given MPs a chance to discuss all the issues. I've been denied the possibility of talking about several laws, which I also find very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53458	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53459	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the exposure you just heard suggests that this topic is not simple. The topic is very complex and this is another topic that we pay dearly for, the ones that made this decision 10 or 12 years ago. So I'm talking about the previous government. This is just one of those bad decisions whose consequences we still feel today. A complex topic in the sense that you have a large number of entities and stakeholders to solve this topic. You also heard what the interest of banks is, banks as foreign investors want to protect their interests. On the other hand, international law gives them the right to protect their investments in a country. You have citizens who think they're damaged. You have a state that also has to react and to tell you, there's no one else to react except the state. In all the countries that solved the problem of housing loans in the Swiss francs, the state reacted. Whether it was a question of Hungary or Croatia, it was again the state that responded to the problem being solved. I think this law, to refer to the comment you've heard, is a final solution. On the other hand, I think that now for all Serbian citizens, or at least for most, it is clear that taking credit is generally not a simple decision, so the educational side certainly exists. I must remind you that the proposal for this bill, which writes down 38% of the debt, without a tight interest, is exactly the law that gives the possibility to those in charge of the Swiss francs that, in a fair way, in market terms, they end up paying off the loans they took 10, 12 or how many years ago. It is precisely the methodology applied when preparing this law that compared the loans in Swiss francs with loans in euro which were taken on the same date, for example 2006 or 2007 and through this write-off given in this law you come to the fact that the users of the credit are both in Swiss francs and in euro after the implementation of this law at the same level, i.e. at the same level of risk. So on that side, I think we did a good thing. We are not afraid here, as you have heard, of the EU's reactions, we are here to take care of citizens' interests. So in conditions where you have a situation where you're macroeconomically stable, that you have money in your budget, I think it's the duty of the state to react, to help citizens who have problems and who have lost their roof over their heads, like you said, and they don't have the ability to pay off those loans until the end. I think it is our obligation, especially that it is important to note that cases that are under way, litigations that are under way, are being stopped by this law, with the consent of both the banks and the citizens of Serbia, which have taken loans in Switzerland, in order to give a chance to a peaceful solution. On the other hand, I think it's clear to everyone that retroactivity doesn't exist in any legal system. It's impossible to pass a law that's retroactive, it would bring down the very foundations of a legal system, and that's why I think we've found a solution that we're working on at this point, but we've found it, ladies and gentlemen. With this problem, the previous government, which made it, was not concerned. She left us huge debts, huge deficits, huge public debt. Now that we've stabilized our public finances, we have the opportunity to help these people. The state has to, there's no one else to do it. No banks at all, they want a piece. The part is not responding and cannot ensure further payment of these loans to Serbian citizens. The state has to be the one to cover part of that cost. We did it, we took it, in my opinion, a brave step. A brave step forward to solve this problem. You know, it could still have been someone holding their head in the ground or in the sand, whatever it is they say, not paying attention to these people, we cut off and said, let's find a common solution. Heavy, very difficult and complex negotiations. I say a lot of stakeholders, a lot of variables to solve, but in the end, we find that solution, that solution is today before you. Each apartment is partially satisfied, each side is partially dissatisfied, but this is the final solution for citizens who took credit in Swiss francs. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53460	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53461	If the Constitutional Court does its job properly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, with basic legal principles, this cannot be a final solution to you. Second, ministers, according to the position of the Supreme Cassation Court, are not only questioned by loans in Swiss francs, but also by loans in euro and any other foreign currency, if any. All loans had to be in dinars, unless, according to the Supreme Cassation Court, if the bank had provided indeed those foreign exchanges that it had given to citizens in the name of the loan. These are very rare cases. So you're going to have to do the same thing in terms of euro loans, and there are people who are sick and there's the situation, the situation is much easier than with regard to Swiss francs, but there's also a state of law. If the situation is against the law, then it has to be solved. Why didn't you take the Hungarian example? I'm most surprised. The Hungarians have resolved this in full accordance with their laws. They turned all the loans into forints and accounted for on that basis, and what was the outcome after the reckoning? They had to be satisfied with both banks and citizens, but you're still titrating to banks. This is to seek a compromise solution, and by the things where crimes have been committed, or illegal treatment done, there can be no compromise. The state must not compromise with law enforcement. The state must not compromise with perpetrators of criminal acts. But in this case, therefore, the state is not interested in being damaged citizens, not at all, but the state is not even interested in being damaged by banks. Well, banks can't say they're damaged if they get the same amount of interest they'd have in their countries. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53462	Thank you. The word has the finance minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53463	Thank you. Just a few comments on what we heard. So the model Hungary applied cost the Hungarian state nine billion euros. Nine billion euros is compared to 45.7 billion, the amount of our GDP per year, tells us enough how much it is possible to implement such a model in our country. You have to keep that in mind. Nine billion euros, just find out how much the system cost and the model was implemented in Hungary. On the other hand, I disagree about the comment that was on the currency clause. So, the opinion of the Supreme Cassation Court says -- the contract will be carried out by conversion with the preservation of the equality of the mutual lending of the given loan, it was established on the basis of the euro course on the day of the conclusion. So, and the Supreme Cassation Court is not talking about the currency clause and never question the currency clause, but only the clause that is related to the Swiss francs, not the euro. The third comment, I forgot to mention earlier, which is very important, you mentioned a 3.5% interest rate in Germany, which, of course, you should know and that this amount of interest rate should be added to the country's risk of investment in Serbia, that it is not Germany, unfortunately, and fortunately, I apologize, that the country's risk of investment is reduced year by year, as we are financially stable and better. But in this law, we have given the possibility and limited the rate of interest for euro credit users, after conversion from francs to euro, where this limit is for users who choose a fixed interest rate of 4% and for those who choose a variable interest rate of 3.4%, plus a three-month or six-month EUR LIBOR. Three months is minus 0.3, six months is minus 0.23. So at this point, if we take 3.5%, I don't know what the interest rate in Germany is, these loans would be more favourable than in Germany. In any case, they are limited by this law, as I say, and I said in my opening statement, give security or greater security, or reduce the risk that these loans will be able to return in the right way. I will later during the discussion point to you also the level of annuity per old and new for various types of credit, so you will see a big difference, which we hope and expect will be acceptable to all citizens and will be able to pay off those loans until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53464	Thank you, Minister. Professor Vojislav Seselj has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53465	Minister, it should be borne in mind that there were 500 thousand such loans in Switzerland in Hungary, that our people were much more cautious than Hungarians, so in Hungary it was an even more terrible problem. Second of all, you didn't tell us anything, Minister, what about those who had already lost their apartments, whose apartments had gone for good? Is there 800 of them? How many families are there? Hundreds of families are out of apartments, everything's gone. We have a case that one public executioner's son bought an apartment with another executioner because he immediately got all the information to sell it, that day and that day. The mafia appeared in the area of enforcement, mafia rights, and many of the vast wealth gained by buying apartments from the sale, and the poor on the streets of Terrana. The government can't let that happen. You must also solve cases that are legally considered resolved, which are legally considered the day of execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53466	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53467	You're right again, Minister, but I'm right again, so we can do it tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53468	Minister Sinisha Mali has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53469	Since I just want to always, of course, respond with respect to all the MPs, to comments and remarks. There is no solution in either Croatia or Hungary that is retroactive. What is a good and important thing for this law, even for the users of credit, and listen to me carefully, it is important to me, for the users of the loan where the mortgage is charged, but still the credit has not returned, they are also subject to the law. So we've been looking for an opportunity to cover all those who are in any way related to credit in Swiss francs, even if the mortgage is charged, so there's something else to pay for, and even some other means of security, bonds, etc., to apply this law to them. But what's retroactive, or what happened in the past, if you have any idea how to solve it, I would very much like to hear it. We have not found any examples of such in other comparative rights, neither in Hungary nor in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53470	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53471	I have the right to a replica. So, your government continues to pay off its great-grandsons, the tycoons of former rich people's assets seized by the communists, although this property is mostly acquired as the tycoons do today. So that's where you want to be as fair as possible, so you're exaggerating, so you're turning justice into injustice, and where yesterday happened, a man took a loan in Swiss, bought an apartment, for example. He took 50,000 euros, bought an apartment, couldn't pay in time for increased interest, took away his apartment, sold for a bagatella, so he still has 30,000 left to pay. Let a man go mad. So there's nothing you can do about it, but to the great-grandsons of former wealthy men who sold to the Serbian army at the time of World War I, flour mixed with sand to gain weight, you pay them back their property because it was wrongfully taken away from them. Well, don't, it was historic cataclysm when the communists came to power. You shouldn't pay anything back to the chukunuanas. They've ruined everything, destroyed everything, fed up with the people, shot 200,000 Serbian citizens, and what now, we can't bring the dead back to life, so we can't even get the property to the squatters of those who were rich. And here you say -- we can't retroactively. Well, you can and you must, because this is the evil that happened recently. This evil is still current. This evil is not out of date. The return of property to former rich people has long been obsolete, yet it is returning, and this has not been outdated yet, it is current.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53472	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53473	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think I answered, I'll do it again. We looked at the maximum to cover first all the users of the loan, and even those to whom, just now, you took advantage of that example, the charged mortgage, but still remained a debt. These credit users are also subject to this law, which I think is very good for them and, I say, shows how much we wanted to extend the entire scope of the law to the maximum possible level. On this second law, I'm guessing you're talking about the Restitution Act, but I don't really have anything to add to those flours, sands, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53474	Wait, wait, wait. (National MPs Vojislav Seselj and Marija Obradovic turn to each other. I ask the People's Messengers to die, they will all get the word, don't throw each other away. Let's continue in this atmosphere, in this good discussion we've had so far. Can you do that, Dr. Seselj? (Vojislav Seselj: Of course not, I am always constructive. Here you are, you have the right to a replica. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53475	You take credit and you sign a mortgage agreement. Your apartment is mortgaged. Are you a lawyer, Minister? Economist, right? Here I am, as a lawyer, resonating. It's a mortgage. Is there a lawyer here? There is. Does the mortgage have to cover the full amount of debt? Even greater value of the mortgage is taken when it comes to debt, and nowhere will anyone accept that the mortgage is less than the debt and then, when the debt is realised, the mortgage property is taken. The value of the assets under mortgage cannot be calculated on the basis of what this property has currently achieved on the market. That's also the problem that's happening to us. So, the man mortgaged the apartment, so he was taken away from that apartment in the name of the mortgage, and then he's still in debt. He can't. The mortgage has to cover the value of the debt and that's it. Here, Martinovic is a lawyer he knows. There are other lawyers here among you. Here, even Chada says I'm right, although he doesn't know anything. So, people take care of that. How is it possible after the mortgage payment that I still owe? How long will I be in debt for the rest of my life? A man dies, and he still owes. He can't do that. He can't do that. When the mortgage is charged, it's over. Who made you accept that mortgage would be a guarantee enough to pay off your debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53476	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. He's reporting for the word Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic. (Kadomir Jovanovic: I answered. Come in again. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53477	Dear ministers with their associates, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group as an authorised representative, I will immediately take the view that our parliamentary group will support the proposed text of the law. It is no doubt that the greatest actuality of these legal proposals is worthy of the first law set out in this summary, which is the Law on the conversion of credit agreements indexed in the Swiss francs. We have heard a lot of controversy here between the Minister and the People's MPs about everything that involves, on the one hand, the consequences of the conversion that you, the distinguished ministers, have talked about, and on the other hand, the burden of the state and the budget that no doubt exists. I'm going to ask you to take just one position, which is obviously not highlighted here, if nothing else, with care to consider. It's about the next one. The loan agreement, as well as any contract, implies autonomy of will and consent to the autonomy of the will of the parties. In particular, it is the autonomy of the will of the credit user, on the one hand, and the bank as a lender, on the other hand. So, these wills to conclude the contract are freely given. There's a problem if there's a lack of will, and what are defects of will? That one of the parties was led astray, that she was under fraud or under threat. That's why we have litigation. How does that manifest to banks? If banks have hidden any fact that is relevant to the realisation of the contract and thus led to the disadvantage of the contractors, which is the user of the loan, then it is a lack of will. To be completely honest and open, a large number of court proceedings have been conducted in Serbia, a large number of disputes. I will remind you only that the Supreme Cassation Court, not only now, when it brought, in my view, a completely correct position in early April, and before that, the Supreme Court took a position when it said – if the banks in the contract did not show the cost of the loan, then they brought into an unfavourable position the credit user should not respond to it, because this contractual provision, obviously, is a deceptive character, or is the legal nature of that contractual provision so that it deliberately leads to the error of the credit user, and we cannot doubt it, distinguished ministers. On the other hand, let's put ourselves in the position of credit users. I don't want to be subjective because I'm one of the credit users, and it's a long-term loan, but let's look at the legal nature of credit users. The credit user made a statement freely expressed. In order to put it in plain folk language, no one forced him to make a statement that by offering as a means of security his immovable property, his immovable property and thus providing the amount of credit. We can't, in any case, think someone's damaged. How can it be damaged if he freely expressed his will to pawn his house, his apartment, his immovable property? On the contrary, there is no harm, there is no deceit. On the other hand, could anyone who, at the time the contract was signed, know that I would not now say as a lawyer know, but could he know of certain risks that this contractual relationship would face and certain consequences that he would bear? He could have known. Why would he know? It's not our first time in Serbia to get into a situation like this. We, respected ministers, and old foreign savings, had problems long ago with Dafiment Bank and many banks. What does that mean? This means that one citizen's awareness of entering a credit arrangement must exist. If so, and it is certain that it is, then the question is asked – how do you find the balance? On the one hand, the bank, which in a very small number of cases, I speak from professional experience, deliberately led to the unfavourable position of the credit users by concealing certain facts and elements of the contractual relationship from the credit user and, on the other hand, whether or not the credit user is safestan. He's safestan if he really didn't know and he couldn't know some things about the possible consequences of the credit arrangement, but what if he could have known and found out otherwise? Then he's not savingstan. I think then you stepped forward, in my reasoning, compromised to satisfy the interests of both sides. I hope you don't get mad if I say something like a lawyer, lawyer. I strictly pointed out that the currency clause was indexed in the Swiss francs of nothing, provided that the bank was in debt in the same way. The courts would either apply that position by making judgments that undoubtedly protect the users of the credit, and that would not be the first time, and thus one established case law would continue. I am for this because I am on the side of the credit user and for the first time publicly speaking, I give a subjective view that my professional approach is such that credit users must be far more protected. To put aside their security and unconsciousness, in particular the position of the Supreme Cassation Court, the honourable Minister, should have been applied. There's always that -- but unfortunately there's always that -- but what if these judgments, which would be made on the basis of the Supreme Cassation Court's position, were to burden too many banks, which might deny the possibility of our economy being serviced in a way that is also served through credit agreements, arrangements, in which certain companies, not small importance to the economy of Serbia, enter into business, or credit relations with banks. This is already another problem that represents the other side of the scale, that is, the other one that we should think about. Do you need to break up the banks then? Does the economy, which is in the process of transition and reform processes in Serbia, need a backbone of the economy, is it very important, should that put it at risk? It's as a citizen, not as a professional and a lawyer, I can say, no, and then it's a good thing this situation came about. It's a good thing there's been some kind of compromise. However, Your Honor, I must draw your attention to the three facts you must bear in mind. The first is an infringement of the principle of non-discrimination. Repeat, violation of the principle of non-discrimination. The second fact, which you should also consider, is a court practice. How the courts will behave in these situations. The third fact, which you should also consider in these situations, is financial, not legal, which is whether to open the door to a new excessive debt on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. These three facts are very, very important. The first fact, on which I have pointed out the principle of banning discrimination, suggests the following - if I have a 350 square-square apartment, a luxurious apartment, you have a 25 square-square-square apartment in this situation as currently provided for by the bill, you are far under a higher burden as you own an apartment far less square than I am. Why? Because taxpayers assume the obligation they have to take on this proposed text of the law. Furthermore, I agree with you completely that you have made an effort and you have succeeded, and it is good that you have done and it is commendable in every way, to cover as many of those who have borrowed credit, and just now, remind me if I am wrong or correct, there are over 15.785, it seems to me to be an exact number. Then these 15,785 entered into legislation and they are undoubtedly covered by this bill, which I am sure we will adopt, but they are not those who have already settled the obligation under extremely unfavourable conditions, and the extremely unfavourable conditions were a year ago, two, three, five, 12, as the inherited problem you pointed out, and you justifiably pointed out that this was an inherited problem. That's not controversial. The question is, will they, then, because they're somewhat discriminated against and they're in violation of a ban on discrimination, will they seek compensation for the damages? Will they press charges, the question arise -- who, to make up for the damage because they paid a loan at a height of tenfold or perhaps less than those covered by this bill? Furthermore, the other fact that I pointed out refers to court practice. The courts have already taken their stand and that's not the problem. The question now raises the question of the judiciary's reaction to the text of a law that has to be applied implicitly. I don't have a problem with that. The law will apply to the extent that it has to be applied. The litigation proceedings will be terminated, enforcement proceedings will be delayed, etc., but the problem remains with filing claims from former loan users that have settled their obligations. Dear Ministers, what I would say at the very end when it comes to this law for a few more minutes is the following: between two evils is always chosen which is less, but if the difficult choice is between two evils, between two problems, then a compromise is made, so a solution is sought which will satisfy both, and that is that both evil disappears or be less, or less dangerous. In a particular situation I'm just saying, I repeat for the third time, for the fifth time, it doesn't matter, as a citizen, and not professionally, here it's obvious that these two problems, the two evils we tried to reduce, to reduce the potential dangers precisely by finding this compromise solution. What I would like to believe and believe is that you are at the same dimension of thinking as I am, that this law will give positive effects, but that most likely in due time when we feel the real consequences of this law are likely to approach changes and additions to come to an even better and better solution. This is now a solution that has been extorted, which has to be as it is, and I have no reason to doubt that this is an emergency that simply has to be accepted whether we want it or not, and for that you have support. We won't be making any controversy about it, nor do I have reason to argue with something that is simply extorted and that has to be done. So much for the law that applies to your portfolio. When it comes to the law that binds itself with the resources of Honorable Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and there is Aleksandra, which I am very pleased to see, because at these sessions we are always constructively polymising, I now, dear Alexandera, must commend these changes. So far, I have been constantly criticizing, which is well known to you, and I have not been able to take away these criticisms, nor has my MP group ever had a problem criticising and putting out the way it is and I am glad that you have respected this criticism and that we have jointly found solutions that mean as much quality of the law as possible. Now I'm going to look back on just one part of the text of the Law on Planning and Construction, so I'm going to ask you to pass it on to the Honorable Minister and possibly later, when we discuss amendments, to maybe remove some ambiguities. I'm going to ask the question again, dear Alexander, that this may be the fifth, sixth, seventh time, I don't even know, to ask myself a question relating to the land institution for the regular use of the facility. Why? We are still in trouble, and we cannot remove this problem, whether your ministry or any other ministry that is responsible for this, that we have this land for the regular use of the facility in two laws, in the Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations and in your law, the Law on Planning and Construction. You have a problem still around the land area for regular use of the facility, but I don't speak problem in administrative procedures, I don't speak problem in administrative matters, I speak problem in court practice because courts must, whether or not, when assessing that the area of land for the regular use of the facility is small compared to what the regular use of the facility essentially implies, then the direct provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations, Article 24 to Article 26. where this area is significantly increasing. In the Law on Planning and Construction, we do not have defined access to this problem in the right way. There are some misunderstandings left, and I think we could work here to better define that. Why am I saying this? In court practice, there was a problem when, I think even last time I pointed it out, but it's not too high to point it out again, and that's a big object problem like a bus stop. Land for regular use of the facility in such high capacity facilities, large gauges, multi-functional etc. means a significantly larger area of land for the regular use of facilities. If nothing else, then to maneuver the bus, to the parking lot, to enter, to go out, etc. The Law on Planning and Construction did not clearly provide for the possibility for us to solve this issue, so that in case law does not cause dilemma, that it does not cause dilemma, because it can cause dilemma and then we have something that will solve the court, that is, that is, that is, judicial practice as set up will finally define it. So I ask you to reconsider that question and finally, in the very end, I commend what you have defined in Article 70. The law on planning and construction, when it comes to selling market criteria, is a very good solution that I welcome because it is finally set up right. I thank you. I wish you every good wish, and of course we will support this text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53478	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm sorry, you weren't in the system for a while. I apologize in public. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53479	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Minister Mali, I don't know if the worse way to criticize you for this law or the way you defend it is. Come on, first of all, let's get this straight with what's meant by the responsibility of those who were previous authorities. Well, you're in the government with more who were previous authorities, than those who weren't, except Vulin and Vucic's parties, all the other coalition partners of the ruling coalition were that previous government. Socialists, PUPS, SVM, Rasim Ljajic's party, Vuka Draskovic, should I keep counting? So forget the notion of the previous government as an argument that you're using space and right for yourself to react at the moment and solve a problem that is real. So I'm not saying that it's not a terrible, terrible problem and I understand, unlike others, what are you doing now? I can't imagine what's going to happen in three months when the entire policy of quantitative yield is abandoned, when they stop printing the euro, they buy bonds on the stock market, when this Bregzit finally happens, it'll be even worse than it is now. But, Mr. Minister, at least on this issue, I need to get on our feet once and stop living in illusions. The Court of Cassation's decision, may we comment on it, which is not a pressure on the court, since it's over. Which means that banks have to prove they're in charge of francs, and then they charge the citizens for it. Well, that's bullshit. It's about credits that have been indexed. So, the moment there was a benefit for the people who took credit in the Swiss francs, everything was fine. If the Swiss had continued to hold the course that they had then no one would have talked about the problem of people who were in debt in the euro and paid the same square who knows how much more. There's talk here, I don't know about some evil foreign banks. Well, none of these banks are foreign, you know that very well. They were founded here in Serbia, in accordance with our laws, deposited money in the National Bank according to our laws, these are our banks, these are not foreign banks. What are we gonna do about the economy? You yourself know how much our economy suffered after 2008, among other things, because of the fact that the economy was also taking loans in francs. There's only one question ahead of us here, do we agree that the whole society is helping people who are threatened to the point where they're left without apartments on the streets with their families? That's the only question that's being asked here. If other issues are imposed to move this into an apartment or to transfer political responsibility to the previous government and the fact that when more of them are in the ruling coalition today than outside it, then we will not agree. Since 2012, the country has reacted, i.e. the state. It reacted to the Central Bank, made it possible to convert to the euro, whether it had established control over the interest, fees for providing services to the banking sector, etc. There is a big difference between the law we are now talking about and the law, for example, in Croatia, Montenegro or Hungary is mentioned. That's where the state didn't show up as someone who'd take part in covering the bank's expenses. Why are we doing this here? Because they'd lose the dispute banks would have started looking for their own protection. We'd lose because the contracts were concluded, signed by our will, when it was convenient. It's like you and I are the owners of Boing's stock, so their 737s fall on the stock market, then we come before the government and say, "Give us the money, we've lost." I'm talking about the economy, and of course it doesn't need the economy to prove itself now and shoot over these people, but then we should honestly say -- the state exists and it helps people in the event of an elemental accident, and we're all solid with it and we contribute to solving their problem. There were floods in 2014 and everyone did as much as they could, as well as the state to sort it out somehow. This isn't an elemental accident. These are the contracts that people made by thinking about their interest with the desire to pay as little as possible and the more they get. It's not true that banks are the way they are today. Here the banks play a much different role than the case in the west, and you know it well. Otherwise, banks would have been charged long ago in the Galenika case. They would never welcome a Chinese investor in Bor because banks would long have charged their debt in a whole series of problems in which banks here acted against banking logic, making some kind of partnership and agreement with the state. And this law is the result of such a relationship. And what guarantees do we have that this is the last time? Just one message, a clear attitude, who's responsible for this? Who's responsible for this? If the responsibility is individual in those who signed the contracts, this law should also say that there is no appreciation for the government, but for the society that has decided to give 100m euros for it, not for something else, without the scholarship of the best students, not for the increase of salaries in health care so as not to leave us doctors. I've been listening to criticism that what's happened now is a result of the state's irresponsible relationship over the last few years. You know what that logic is based on, what it comes from? From your point of view, some previous government is also responsible for this. If the previous government is responsible, then we must determine responsibility, whether 100 million is little to determine responsibility. Then let's determine responsibility. What was the SPS doing then? What was PUPS doing? We spent two billion raising pensions by ten percent, so we crashed. Is it true or isn't it true? Did we end up in debt in 2011 we took a billion with an interest rate of 11%. Well, then let's see who's responsible for it and once he answers, another time won't happen. Do not accept here as something that is normal that interest in Serbia should be like interest in Germany. Well, Nutela in Serbia isn't like Nutela in Germany. Where does the idea that interest will be here the same as in Germany? Of course we can't do what Orban did, of course we can't, but then we have to say it like that. What you're looking for is economic logic in that law, it's gone. Tell me honestly -- we can't look at these people, they're rotting, there's so many of them, what to do, we haven't reacted before, we couldn't act. Don't talk retroactive. Do you know why, Mr. Mali? Because you'll come here with the Law of Origin of Assets. Right? How do we deal with retroactiveness in that case? We solved that question, here, you have the law, look at it, it's been standing here in the Assembly since 2010, we suggested it. But when you say we can't retroactively, take care of it, once this country was already acting retroactively, when it was charging the extraprofit tax. It's not about that, it's about being honest – I'm sorry, that's right, there's no justice in this world of ours on this plan. There's someone else who's been killed. Someone's been lucky, someone less fortunate. We've got to help these guys now. That's where it came from. The problem has now been seen, we've made a deal with the banks and we're solving it. If it were up to the vote of the Liberal Democratic Party it would certainly be a dilemma, there would certainly be a dilemma whether or not we should vote, because I don't think these people should be driven out of these principles now. In some other places before, in the public sector, for example. When you ask the question of reduced salary 10% or in the Pension Fund, when you ask the question of reduced pensions from acquired rights, it is acquired, it is not disputed, just where is that right now? Empty Retirement Fund, devastated. The property of the Pension Fund is worthless. Broken spas, abandoned. No one has acted economically for 10 or 15 years, and, okay, those people don't need to be broken down by cars right now, but then they should be told honestly. Then it is fair to say -- Serbian citizens, we have decided on your behalf to give 100m euros to solve the suffering of these people, although they are no victims of the evil banking sector. That's not true. They pay the price of something called capitalism, competition, the market, and we can behave in another way, to end it all, but then go back to the social property, the housing that the state gives and so solve the whole problem. However, that system has failed. The worst thing that can happen to us is that here we all find that the problem is in the banks, because without them, we can't, and they're going to charge for what they cost, and you know it very well. That's the risk you're talking about, that's that credit rating that when it rises a little bit, and we say it's good, and then I'm stuck with the false opposition, and if that rating falls, then our capital is more expensive, and if it's more expensive, then there's less, then there's no investment, there's no jobs, there's no exports, and then there's 90s again. That's why this debate can't be conducted as much as there were people at the rally. This is like surgery. People signed contracts. The moment they signed those contracts, they were fine. It happened in 2008, Lehman Brothers, all hell broke loose, and now it needs to be paid. At this point, the state can pay, it can make a deal with the banks, and a year, two or three years ago, it couldn't have been done, and that's what it's supposed to be said. Among other things, it can pay for some reforms in the public sector, which is no more than 150 enterprises in restructuring, which have eaten 700m euros on average annually, and these are all facts. But in the government's decision to cover the cost of people in charge of francs, there is no economy and there is no establishment of any rule of law. It can only be understood in the realm of the desire to help people, beyond any obligation and not to harm them, I cannot say that, but, above all, by counting on the solidarity of the rest of society. I'm not sure that all people would support it, I'm absolutely not sure, but because of the problem people are facing, those French-based unfortunates, I think I have an understanding of what you've decided to do. But the stories, the previous government, and this governor, and that governor, that's bullshit. The foreign banks that came here to tear our skins off our backs, all our banks, absolutely all our banks. You know it very well and that's the way to do it, and forget the retroactiveness. Honestly, those people who got killed until our decision, they got hurt, what to do. It's life, it's cruel, and we're sorry, but that's how it is. Now, we can't do anything retroactive. Of course the state can do anything, whatever it wants, but it doesn't make sense. Let the people tell the truth, the way it is, then next time they'll be more careful, safe. Where is there a problem? There is a population, in demagogy, in the fact that loans were made, subsidies, corporations to sell blocks that could not be sold, which the state owed to cover someone's losses, and now all this has come before us, and the particular question is the price the economy will pay for this. What is certain, is that those people whose money is invested in this Serbia, through the banks that placed it here, are not at all in the mood to play the role that our country is playing at this moment, and here, which our Assembly will play along with the Government, which is that through some principle of solidarity they cover the damage there to someone in Belgrade. What do they care? What does it matter if someone through the Bank of Intez Sao Paolo invested in Serbia for a certain interest their money, how many NPLs we have, all of it was swallowed up by banks, right? So now there's a problem, the bank sells, it's covered by a mortgage, so when it's sold, then the payment goes on. That's not normal, and that's where Seselj's right. And the collaterals in the economy? Well, the banks were full of assets they didn't know what to do, because they dropped in the meantime. On these topics, it is important to respond, that there cannot be one rule for a citizen, and another rule for a company. These are the failures of not the previous authorities, but of our systems, we have systemic errors and should be eliminated. In the end, you kill yourself to explain that time has changed, that we have to work, that fighting for every investor is 24 hours of working time in the world. If you want to make a deal with someone, you get up at 3:00 in the morning to call them, and then we show up here and say, "You know what, that doesn't exactly have to happen." No, it has to, this has to be the first and last time. I'm sorry, how many homes is health, school, hospital, medicine. The country must be aware of the price parliament now wants to pay for these people. We don't want to sacrifice them. Fortunately, there's some money in the budget, but it has to be quite clear what this is all about. There's no economy here. If the contracts were completed, fulfilled as they were signed, no one would show up and say, you know what, I got a lot of cheap. Here's what I'm gonna pay for. You're the finance minister, you're not the minister of labour, employment and social policy. There's no previous government, so we can't talk. No foreign banks, no evil banks. They invested their money by the rules that whoever took the money agreed to. How do you think you're getting involved in this? It's not greening. The variable interest rate. And you, when you're in debt as a state, that counts. What's a eurybor? Does he change? Was the interest rate negative? Well, we had to pay if the bank kept our money, today it went to $ 2.5. That's what I expect to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53480	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Before I give my word to Minister Sinishi Malo, I would like to agree to article 27 and to Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform the People's MPs that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dr. Crescent. Sinisha Mali, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53481	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests in both health homes in schools and kindergartens, but we also care about people and we cannot allow people who are left without a roof over their heads, who have been in trouble for more than 10 years, if we are able to turn our heads aside and not notice their concerns. We've just looked them in the eye, talked to them, talked to the banks and brought a compromise solution just to solve their problem, to show that we're a responsible state, a state that thinks about them and a state that cares. I think it is, after all, the role of the state. I don't think you're right, that's the least I can say when you say it's stupid for the decision of the High Court of Cassation. Just to understand their intensity was to see if and whether these loans were speculative business, whether the banks had money in the dinars, so they gave out the money in francs, or if they originally had a source of their resources in Swiss francs. That was the defacto reason for such a comment and such opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. I will also remind you that almost all or most domestic banks, as you call them, have founders who are from abroad and given how much we have done in the past few years in terms of the stability of our economy and political stability, stability and security of investment in our country, then you realize how complex the subject we are talking about today is. You have foreign investors' interests. We need that security to keep them investing in our country. On this basis we are opening new factories and new jobs, our GDP is moving forward, our country is progressing. You have on the other hand, and those people who took home loans in Swiss francs. I talked to them, so it's a serious real problem. The people who just said you lost your roof over your head, so that's the problem we're trying to solve now. We didn't have any money before. Now we have some money and we want as a responsible society, as a responsible state, to invest some of that money to help those who need it most. I'll end up the way I started this exhibit. We're not worth a lot of health care, even though we're fighting for them, or schools, or kindergartens if we don't have people. In the end, we are all citizens of this Serbia and it is our duty, our duty, and our desire to help others if we are able. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53482	Thank you, Dr. Mali. Right on line Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53483	I guess since you didn't mention the previous government that we agreed that this was no argument, that we're not going any further. For what reason have banks come to Serbia at all if they don't make money? The court is making sure it's speculative? Yes, it is. Did they take the dinars? So they did, and when the first month was due to pay, they acted according to the currency clause. People could take credit in dinars. Where's the court's right to interfere? Why was the decision two-one? How would that go in another court? You know very well why other countries did not go that way in solving this problem. Not Montenegro, not Croatia, about Hungary not to speak. Of course they're made and schools are made, and homes of health, but I told you something else. It must be clear to people how much is behind every economic logic or behind every right decision you make. It's based exclusively on solidarity, empathy, nothing else. Don't let me count the companies that have been closed since 2008 because they couldn't repay the loans. They were left out of the market by investing in new equipment, not cars and personal luxury. Some great companies. I'll tell you one thing. Just think of the "Jip Comet". It was a fantastic company. Extraordinary equipment. She disappeared in three months. She had supplies on her lager, she changed the price of those supplies, and they failed, and more credits on the other side. Companies that also took loans in Swiss to finance themselves. The great company "Fud Land" had to, it was sold. She practically took over the Atlantic Group as an NPL. Fantastic company. So the decision you're making is deeply solidarity. She's talking about the need to help people who are in real danger. But don't let us present these people as victims of some evil banks now. That's not true. It is the founders of banks abroad, but these banks here operate according to our rules, deposit here money, have an obligation to hold reserves in accordance with our regulations. The capital adequateness here exists and it binds them. Different rules are here than out there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53484	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's MP, Zoltan Peck, came forward. Here you go, colleague Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53485	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I would speak of this famous law, the Law on the Conversion of Residential Loans and indexed in Swiss francs. The problem of household credit users in Swiss francs is finally the topic that has come to the congregation and we are looking to solve this problem. The surrounding countries have already solved this problem, Hungary, as we heard, Croatia, Montenegro and others, Hungary solved this problem in 2014. Each country had its own model, which is the best model that you don't know, we have this model that's ahead of us and I think right now is the best solution. How did the loans that were indexed in francs come to pass? The first loans at the Austrian National Bank were issued to those citizens who lived near the Swiss border and had and worked in Switzerland and made profits in Switzerland and therefore made this decision. The decision has slowly spread to surrounding countries, such as Hungary, the former SFRY countries, Romania. We started these loans in our country in 2005. Why am I saying this? I'm saying because before I was a politician, I worked at the bank for 22 years, at the time I was the director of the population at the bank. So in 2005, we started to issue these loans. It was such a time that only these housing loans were given in Swiss francs, it lasted about a year. The expansion of these loans received by our citizens was the largest since 2007 and 2008. Imagine that moment, how the citizens thought then. Credits are given indexed in Swiss francs. The Swiss franc was a very stable currency, the euro as a new currency was in European countries. That's what they thought. So a stable franc, a stable loan, and that's to be taken. At that time, the quality of the euro and the Swiss franc was 1 to 1.2 and it was held from 2011 to 2015. So each country has its own monetary policy and monetary policy is based on how much its national currency is in parity with euro. That's what Switzerland was doing. Why did this collapse happen, where we entered? A lot of our citizens have entered, there are only about 17,000 citizens who still have these loans, and the amount of these loans is around, if I look at it well, 540m euros. So the citizen went into the bank, asked for a loan. We haven't had a chance to lend loans, especially housing loans. First we started with consumer loans, and then housing loans came. So, they had opportunities, that was our economy, that we could give these loans. The citizen came in, thought the franc was very stable. As for interest rates, the interest rates were at least. So less than those loans that were issued in euro. All the brochures, all the politics, the banking policy for the citizens was very attractive, so these people went into the banks and raised these loans. Unfortunately, very little from banks or bank workers did not look at signs, which was in the EU. Because in 2007, if I remember correctly, the European Central Bank, the Central Bank of Austria, has already given signs that these types of loans have a double foreign exchange risk. In our country, 2007, this should be pointed out, the then governor of the National Bank, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, made one statement about this double foreign exchange risk, only the problem was that no one was paying attention to it. We came to the conclusion that in 2011, it was not already allowed to be credited in Swiss francs, but only in euro. Because this question that led to the collapse of this whole thesis or this whole problem is one so-called. a statement by the European Central Bank, 2015, January of the month, that it will buy bonds of 60m euros each month. That is why the National Bank of Switzerland reacted and since that date, in January 2015, they gave up on that parity that was before 1:1.20. That's why there's been this collapse, unfortunately. Like I said, the law is ahead of us. This was a small history of why we came to this and how it was. It should once again be pointed out that at that time the only obstacle was that someone would not take this loan to the height of their personal income. Because if the client entered the bank, then the only question was how much credit he could bear, since 50% of the personal income was allowed to be charged with any credit. And that's why people are coming so far. It was such a low interest rate that loans in Swiss were more favourable than loans in euro. No one paid attention to what would come in five, ten, 15, 20 years, because no one told them what was ahead of them. As a bank manager, I warned my friends, acquaintances, not to take credits like this and that there would be problems, since I was reading various newspapers about banking systems at the time. That's why I said you shouldn't take it, but only up to 35% of your salary, because you don't know what's going to happen and how it's going to be an entire interest policy. This solution we have, and then I'm going to say what else we have here is a little risky and in this law, so the law is ahead of us and we think it's a good solution, which is why we're going to vote for this law. So the MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union will vote for this bill. As Mr. Minister said in this law, it is those people or citizens who took the loans, but what is seen as the principal, or the write-off or conversion of these loans? It's the remaining long capital and the billing and the unpaid interest. So that's the main part of the debt. It is converted into dinars, converted into dinars, 38% are written off, and the rest is given the same as a loan, but a loan at that interest rate that was applied in the given bank on 31 March this year. If the bank did not have such loans, then it must have such conditions that these loans have to be issued by, if the interest is variable or variable, that it is not above 3.4%, plus a three-month or six-month euros, if fixed, it was also a fixed interest and the bank had such loans, then the fixed interest should not be above 4%. I said I'd say what kind of problems we're going to have, if we're going to have them, you don't know it yet, because you don't know what's going to happen in the economy, I as a banker had the chance to be a Eurobor plus 4.4. Now it's minus 2, 02, so now it's very convenient. In 10, 15 years, you don't know what's gonna happen. So this is another part of the risk of the bank issuing loans. So 3.4% interest plus euribor. So there's a little bit of a risk here, but you can accept that, because every credit indexed in foreign currency has this kind of eurybor. Let me get back to the subject. So, if the law enters into force, the bank must offer to the consumer, or whoever has so far, their offer of conversion, and the recipient of the loan after or during 30 days of acceptance of this agreement must either sign or accept or not accept. If he doesn't accept it, then he's left with this loan to pay off how it's been so far. As Mr. Minister has said, it is not only those citizens who remain in debt, but those citizens who are subject to litigation or forced collection, they stop this process until the 30 days they decide what they will do after their decision to move forward. As we said, security funds are important because every loan, every bank has security funds, and there's one, three, or in the old days we've taken more of these security funds, like mortgages, then life insurance, and there's been so much insurance with the national corporation. With regard to these security funds, it should be pointed out that they remain in force. So it doesn't take for these new converted loans to make new life insurance contracts or a new mortgage to put in. As for the cost of conversion, these costs fall under the bank's burden. So, citizens have no burden at all as compensation or anything about these loans. It's also very positive, as far as citizens are concerned. It should point out that the bank then makes a request for 15% of the conversion costs to conclude a contract with the Republic of Serbia to make those 15%, which will be accepted by the government, from the budget to make up for the banks. Like I said, we have currently 16,800 citizens with loans like this. Like I said, the amount of these loans is about 540 million dinars. I think this in our country is one of the best solutions to the problem of these citizens, and that's why we're going to vote on this bill, as well as the other laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53486	Thanks, buddy Peck. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We'll be back at 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53487	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53488	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministers with associates, my fellow Members and MPs, the JS parliamentary group will support all the laws that are on the agenda today. And I will certainly agree with my predecessors that today's most important bill on the conversion of housing loans is indexed in Swiss francs, but I will start with the other two laws. These are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners and the Law on the Employment of Foreigners. As soon as this came to the agenda, so there was a need for this, it means that our investments are meat, that the country is economically stable, when some other people come to Serbia to work here. There's always this story that ours is going somewhere else, but here's the facts and indicators that even people, foreigners come to Serbia to work. I may have been a little surprised at one point today when people who didn't bring any investors into Serbia talk about how it should be done. If we need to listen to someone who knows how investors are brought to Serbia, then everyone should be a good example of the JS parliamentary group head, who I belong to, Dragan Markovic Palma, who didn't bring one, two, three, five, but made the entire industrial zone. When it comes to the law I announced, the bill on the conversion of residential loans indexed into Swiss francs, us from JS, when there were opportunities to talk about it and when here, among other things, was guest and governor of the NBS, Mrs Tabaković and Sinisa Mali, current finance minister and previous ministers, we knew very often about it. First of all, Minister, thank you for coming to the agenda. Of course, first of all, thank Alexander Vukic, who had a conversation three weeks ago with people who expressed their dissatisfaction with a protest, and then he gave the word he held. Here, after three weeks, the law is complete and has arrived here in our congregation procedure. You've said more than once today that this isn't an easy topic. I agree with you, definitely, this is quite a complex subject. Even the people who represent the opposition today and have talked about their criticisms on this subject today, but I, unfortunately, have to realize that in Serbia, when we have much more serious topics than this topic, we cannot agree and underline the line when it is time that we all have to work together in the same direction. There's not much room to criticise this law. I say that quite realistically and as someone who worked in the real sector in banking and who is familiar with all the details and situations that happened to people who, unfortunately, now I can say, were customers in Swiss. We have one situation where today again someone can say, criticise - whether you take care of all people or only people who are in charge of Swiss francs. You know what, today the data that you've provided, which is the fact that at this point we're talking about around 15,785 clients. So we're not talking hundreds, dozens, we're talking 15,785 loans. And it's true, some have expired, a small number of those that have expired, a small number of those who have managed to repay their loans. The consequences of this wave that has caused a great dissatisfaction and I can certainly say damage to our country, which is not your fault, is the fact that there have been a lot of marriages that have just suffered because of this one financial situation. Today someone said that there were suicides and pretty ugly situations for a number of people. But today is the moment when, because of all these other 15,785 families, we have to pass this law. That's why I said the J.S. MP group would back you up on this. But we need to learn one lesson and maybe that's the conclusion after voting on this subject, that this was one big school for all of us. It's not good, we taught it ourselves, it cost us a lot, but this is an indication that we have to do a lot of work on population education and try to get people to get pretty good information before they get into an adventure called credit. It's not just the situation with us, credits everywhere are necessarily evil, but unfortunately, without them, we can't. And I'm the user of one loan, fortunately, not in Swiss. When I say that the state has to make decisions like that, this is the same emergency as when an accident happens. Thank God, and in an accident, it doesn't happen that the whole country gets hurt, one region gets killed, one part of the citizens gets killed. I might call this an elemental accident. And it's a good thing the president gave the order to quickly solve this elemental disaster called loans in Swiss francs. One experience, actually, many of them. When I heard this was coming on the agenda and we were going to talk about loans like this, I had a chance to talk to a few families who were users of these loans. I talked to a doctor who has two children, one child studies, one child is a high school, she and her husband are intellectuals, quite politely, solving their existential question. So they didn't fight for any luxury, they bought their first real estate, as well as probably 99% of these people we're talking about today. Her story goes to that extent to say that in one period they literally had potatoes for lunch, so the children were asked if they were going to eat cooked potatoes, whether they were going to eat fried or otherwise, but they only ate potatoes, not guilty or obliged. So it's my honor today that because of these 15,000 families, all of us who are involved in the work, I'm sorry that the others aren't here, because this is the topic in which everyone should take part, and I'd be happy if I'd heard a better proposal. So there's no big help from the critics. Different stories we've heard today, but I'm saying, since I come from the banking sector, I'm aware of what you've met and who had to be at that table to pass one of these laws. You had to talk to the banks, you had to hire and public opinion in a number of different ways and this bill is absolutely not random. So, once again, when it comes to the JS parliamentary group, I repeat, we will support this and all other laws on the agenda. Of course, this, at least for me, is one of the most important, but let's just say, I don't think there's a single law that's here today on the agenda, and that's the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on cableways for face transport. As Minister Mihajlovic said today, the essence of this law is, above all, greater security for all cable and gondola users. What I can say as one good experience that I have seen that in a number of European countries these are definitely attractions. And I think that what's going on in Calemegdan, the same gondola that's being done on Zlatibor, will be a kind of attraction and will be part of the tourist offer. And I come from a tourist resort, from Vrnjačka Banja, and we once had a project planned to bring Vrnjačka Banja gondolam together with Goc Mountain. And I believe that at some point, we're going to raise our strength and a little bit of you to help us with our finances, to manage to implement this project. Anyway, when we talk about tourism, I can't mention Dragan Markovic Palm again, the president of our parliamentary group, and the situation where he didn't need any help, and he made it out of Jagodina, some wanted to admit it or not, to create a serious tourist place. So, without the state's help, they built a zoo, a park, etc. I therefore appeal to all that, when the draft law on cableways has already appeared, this is one idea, one positive provocation for a large number of municipalities and cities in Serbia that have something to show tourists, so that this law, of course, is one of those that we from the Single Serbia are going to support. I mentioned earlier that it's not right for some people to work, get paid, and others don't work, and they get paid the same way. What solution should we seek and what compromise? It is likely that the board of directors should talk about it, but Dragan Markovic Palma, what you can read today in all newspapers, stressed again – it is not correct for MPs to receive salaries without coming to work. He set an example of doctors who could receive wages without coming to work, teachers, educators, etc. We'll all agree that's not right. I can't, since I've already mentioned teachers and educators, not to refer to this law, and that's the bill to supplement the Budgetary System Act. Evidence that our budget system is stable, that all economic parameters are positive and, among other things, another increase today follows people who work, teachers who work in preschool institutions. So, since May of the month, as the finance minister said, which means June wages, to all people working in preschool institutions, teachers will be increased by 9%. So, gentlemen of Ministers, once again, the United Serbia parliamentary group will vote for all the laws you have proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53489	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53490	Let me just make you right for the public. So it's a May salary that will be paid in June and so it's, instead of an increase in salaries for all those who work in preschool institutions of 7%, as we planned with the 2019 budget, the increase will be 9%. I think it's big and important news for all the people who work in preschool institutions. We are in line with the law, and we are showing in what way the money we have saved and earned can be given and invested in those who need it most, because our children go to those kindergartens and the way they are educated there means a lot to them, to us and to the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53491	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53492	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I can say that we will vote in favour of all laws that are on the agenda today, as well as all agreements. Of course, like everyone who spoke today, my point will be to convert credits that are indexed in Swiss francs, because this is a topic that interests citizens of Serbia. It's a 15,700-family number. It's one big group of people, and it's very important to point out. Every serious and responsible government takes care of its citizens. Every serious and responsible government solves the problems of its citizens and thus shows its seriousness, its work and its results. I especially stress this because it's a very difficult and complex subject. So, about the loans that were taken in the Swiss francs. I confess to the finance minister that he had the patience to talk. There were citizens, there were banks and there was a state. The state could not participate in this conversation if there were no results in the financial consolidation, there was no money in the budget, and that is exactly why we were able to sit down this year and talk responsibly about this. What's for sure is a compromise. When I say compromise, let's be sure not everyone is happy at the time, but not everyone is unhappy. They didn't get it all, they got something, some lost something. That's the word compromise and that word compromise that's always in politics, very important, very important, so we've solved the problem. I personally consider the problem we have solved in the long run and the citizens of Serbia can now, those who are burdened with loans, right in Switzerland, live peacefully. I'm reporting for those people, and so is my predecessor, who talked to a lot of people, and I've been talking to a lot of people, and some people have called me. You know, Swiss loans weren't taken by those who had money, who were rich. They took those who didn't have money, who solved their most important life problem, which is a housing issue. I know a woman I've been talking to and who's been talking to for a long time, who's done her house, she's bought a house, she's been a refugee, and that's exactly how she solved her problem, and she said it herself -- I'll never pay off this loan. I talked to her on Monday, explained some solutions to her. She's relieved. I'm not going to mention her name, because it would be too personal in this assembly, and I'm saying this for her because now that woman is going to be in a position to tell me -- yes, I'm going to be able to repay this loan and I'm not going to be in a position to think about whether I'm going to be on the street tomorrow. This shows that this ruling majority has its social sensitivity, its social sensitivity, and that is precisely the goal and task of every government, to think about what it is that makes the citizens and how to find that problem. Of course, this solution has its price. That's not a small price. Our country is willing to pay that price, but so are the banks and citizens. I'm not much of a bank fan, not a loan. I have to admit that I've never taken them, I don't mean to take them, but also every citizen who takes credit knows very well what debt slavery is. Therefore, let this debate and everything that happens be a kind of education for citizens, to know when they sign contracts for what they sign and where they are. But our country is such that I think that during this period of transition we have learned that loans are not always a rescue and that citizens of Serbia, unlike other surrounding countries, have not put too much credit on them, which is good, but that is why we could solve this big problem. I also point out that we're solving the problem of people who have low incomes and had to take loans. We haven't solved the problem of the rich, the problem of the tycoon, so we can get the laws to write them off, get rid of them. We solve the problem of those people who have been in a difficult material situation and the situation they have solved their housing problem. This is proof that if the government works seriously and responsibly, if it talks to its citizens, understands the interests of citizens, it can always find a solution, even the most difficult problems. I think that's what trust we have in citizens, that we're going to get that trust in the future, because we're always going to talk to the citizens, ask for what it is that's holding them back, and what are the problems that they need to be solved. I also stress that because the results we have in financial consolidation are such that we can proudly say that we will be able to solve other more significant problems that exist in our country, just because we have the resources. I expect, and that's what I was saying, when we talked about the budget, the finance minister, that we're going to solve the problem of infrastructure, that we're going to solve sustainable development, that we're going to solve the problem of a healthy environment. So, something that will give the citizens of Serbia a better chance of living better. Of course, as we are raising salaries in this law today for those who work in preschool institutions, I hope that in the course of this year, already in September, we will be able to talk about a more significant increase in the standards of people who are employed in public services and also the standards of pensioners, because that is what Serbian citizens expect of us. If we have the results, and we have the results. To point out, the SDPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of all the laws and all the agreements in this package of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53493	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53494	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, today is obviously the inevitable subject everyone has been talking about, the Law on the Conversion of Housing Loans indexed in the Swiss francs, so I will try not to repeat what my colleagues have said before, but I think there is something more to be said about all this in particular. Until, what, a month ago, our fellow citizens, who were users of these loans and in charge of the Swiss francs had no choice, except to continue at any cost to pay these loans, which they took in due time, or to come under the influence of the judicial perpetrators, forced charges, sales of immovable property, settlements, etc. What's good is that they showed up, not one, but two possible solutions. First of all, to remind you, all that is also touched today in the debate, the Supreme Cassation Court has come out with a view to possible futility and conditions in order to determine the futility of these contracts and the second is this law that we, as Parliament today, are talking about. What I want to remind you is that the reason for this law lies in this one basic fact, which is that for the past seven years, Serbia has consolidated its finances enough to make this not small and huge and significant asset, out of almost 100m euros, to prevent 16 000 families or maybe 60 – 65 000 of our citizens from becoming social cases tomorrow, trying to or to repay this loan, with which they are in debt, or to remain without the immovable property they have bought. That's what's important. It's an important possibility that's been provided. Perhaps this law is not, as some before me have said, what they hoped to end up with, which has raised loans in Swiss francs, but I think a compromise solution offered by the state, in which in one balanced way the interests of those who have raised credit, protects the interests of the Serbian state, in the long term and fits in some way into the interests of banks, which obviously and these will at least lose this amount of money from some projected profit in the future period of time. Of course, I'm not sorry about the banks, but I'll remind you, unfortunately we don't live in some time 30 years ago and the banks pay money to make money. It is up to us to take care of what loans we take as citizens and to get good information about it, and in the state to make sure there is no possibility or to be a minimal possibility of abuse. What I would like to suggest is that citizens can make it easier to decide which variant to define on all of this, which is that it might be good for the National Bank of Serbia or the Ministry of Finance to come out with a statement, information on whether the banks were really in charge of the Swiss francs when they placed these loans. I think that in many ways would simplify the situation and not some possible uncertainty of those who may have a dilemma tomorrow whether they will accept these conditions offered by this law or still decide to conduct court disputes, given the position of the Supreme Court of Serbia. That would end this part, when it comes to this. We will support this law, because we really don't think that Serbia should be in a position to think about new potential 70 thousand possible social cases and social problems, because Serbia can allow itself at this time because this government and previous government, since 2012, has been very serious about finance and have treated the way the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those with whom it must cooperate, starting with the IMF, banks without which, of course, it can't operate the economic system, although I am absolutely convinced that I should never have put out the domestic banks, since I have data that one of the most competitive banks remains "Beobank" in bankruptcy, thanks to all those plasmas that a team that led to the work of these banks has achieved by 2000. I don't want to be a financial expert because I don't understand it, and I wouldn't give myself the right to go beyond what I was talking about when it comes to these loans. The second topic I would like to talk about is amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. In particular, I would like to draw attention to Article 17 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and to the part relating to the part of the law supplementing the powers to adopt sublegal acts, which refers precisely to a segment which says that the minister is closer to the regulation. I will quote new points 20 and 21 where points 20 are said – conditions, programmes and methods of passing an expert examination in the field of spatial and urban planning, drawing up technical documentation, building energy efficiency, performing administrative-experienced tasks, organisation of expert examinations, composition and method of work of the panel for passing an expert examination and keeping records of the professional examination. The new point 21 in its proposal says the minister prescribes both the conditions and the procedure for issuing, confiscating and extending the license for the responsible spatial planner, the responsible urbanist, the responsible designer and the responsible contractor, as well as the content of the formal form of the licence. I am particularly emphasising at this point 21, which is proposed, the word - responsibly. Why? It's for nothing to us, as my peasants from Stublin would say, that we have a responsible ministry, that we have certain services that are very responsible, when we have individuals who question the work of a complete system that works in the state. There have been huge objections here as to why the authorities of the chamber are being taken over, the ministry is taking over its powers. I honestly feel that anyone who has done their job has no reason to fear that they will become responsible and those who have been very irresponsible and irresponsible toward their work. I'm going to turn back to my Obrenovac and really thank the ministry for helping to finish the stock this time from Obrenovac to Preljina. All local roads are paved, what the local community is accounting for in advance what its intelligence has agreed with the contractors, to protect its residents, but the fact is that without serious help, support from the ministry would not be certain that this would bring an end. It's over. We expect that what remains these days, underpasses under Čikovec and Grebaca will be completed and that part of the local infrastructure and the possibility of uninterrupted communication would almost end by the ends of the highway. There's one more thing left, and that's the end of the pasare on foot in Misluđin, which is proposed to be done at the future temporary payment ramp, because practically the highway has cut that place into two parts and has to be ensured that our fellow citizens are finally released to work, they can safely reach their homes. We really expect that, because there's plenty of time, according to this pace that's being led now, that it will be prepared and completed. I must say again why I purposely mentioned responsibility and irresponsibility. In 2011, a reconstruction of the road was made from Obrenovac to Ub. In 2010, a redesign was carried out on the basis of a project task. Based on the questions and answers I had previously received from the Ministry of Construction, always neat and timely and correct, I simply came to the conclusion that, first of all, the project task that was given at the time was not good, because it was obviously not designed for this kind of freight traffic that is operating that way today. That means that someone who did it at the time should probably come under the hit of this and lose their license. Those who were doing the redesign, and I know for sure, just can't prove that they didn't see one metre of the route between Obrenovac and Ub when they were doing the redesign, but only when the problems on the road came in to correct something in the walk, so they didn't even bother to see that many of the mistakes they had been able to correct, because the projects were still only part of it and above all, obviously we lack the responsibility of those who were watching. So this time, after only six or seven years, it came to that, and it was reconstructed from the sheets, from the foundation, from the crust of the path from the beginning to the end. We have indeed suffered with joy for a year of torture, passing, and various paths to see today that this road is once again beginning to fall apart. It was a very good and timely reaction from the ministry last year when I pointed out that damage had occurred. Within 24 hours, if I'm not mistaken, the commission from the ministry has come out, said what needs to be fixed, set it up, but I have to tell you that it's time for the ministry to send people back to the field and now to do an expert on the quality of those reconstructed parts. Some parts better not even be reconstructed. As a layman, I can say that those who did it this summer were not doing well. The road drowned in some places worse than it looked. Since traffic continues in the dynamics in which it continues, I think it's time for a serious reaction. I have no reason, you're all better experts in that area than I am, but of course that road is far more burdened, more raoboved, and because there has been, thank God, building highways and new things. Therefore, performers, i.e. investors and those who have simply burdened that path further than what has been designed for it, should help if they do not suffer, a complete change in the asphalt background. Therefore, as long as it is not, and I expect that by really changing and detecting the gaps that arise, it will lead to an absolute series of responsibilities, because if the minister can take responsibility for the procedure in which professional exams or withdrawals will be carried out, then it is expected to establish a complete hierarchy of responsibility in that chain. I know it's not easy what in a complete mess and chaos up to seven years ago was to bring it to the right level, but I'm telling you this because simply, I have the impression that some of the parts of the road might be funny, which are reconstructed this summer, and I would have been better off walking around that fucker than what the tolls were doing, it would have gone down less and less damage would have been done than it is. So I ask you to continue with responsibility, no matter what you're torn apart as a ministry and as a minister at many construction sites, of course, with the desire to get everything done as quickly and as quickly and as high-quality as possible, but I'm afraid this one should be paid attention, because soon you'll be letting that stock into the market. I say the Obrenovians are very grateful to both the ministry and the performers and the local self-government, because I say the things that have been destroyed have been removed, knowingly to build the road. It is simply a serious motive for ending what I was talking about and these underpasses and these pasarellas that when it comes from Obrenovac to Belgrade now traveled at least 20 minutes longer when all the road traffic is coming together, the ministry is really in the way that it has done so so far and on the issue of the way Obrnovac – Ub. The Socialist People's Peasants' Movement Group and the United Peasants' Party will vote for all proposed laws because they simply deserve to be unreservedly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53495	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zorana Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53496	Thank you for your support. Two topics I think are important that I would single out relate primarily to the engineering chamber itself. I think it's the Engineering Chamber and that was why we finally tried to get back to that right path in the previous bill of amendments and additions in today's Chamber of Engineering. She was definitely stolen from an engineer. The engineering chamber was under the direct patronage of several former politicians, primarily from the DS and former ministers. The only theme in the Engineering Chamber, unfortunately, is that, unfortunately, not all of us are just these people, but, in general, all of us, they were primarily concerned with income schedules and all of what they were getting from the collection of professional exams, and at least what's called waist. So, then the amendments to the law, a few months ago, the current amendments to the law, need to enable us to make the profession find its way and to do what its business is, and that the state as it has done before the Forester took over the Engineering Chamber, so that the state creates conditions for the profession to do its job. It's our job to run the Engineering Chamber together. These are some of the changes that are here, that all stem cells are present, so the engineering chambers themselves, and not just one part, and not just the builders, and not some others, and so on. What is very important, what you said several times, is a matter of responsibility, because when you mention the trip from 2011, and when you mention what happened when you look at those reports, and on the other hand you know that there are 40,000 issued licenses and that none, or that one taken away in the previous ten years, is wrong. From everything we've done, all the expertise is clear that it should have been there, therefore, those responsibilities right on the part of the engineers. When we talk about major infrastructure projects, you are now one mentioned, Surčin – Obrenovac, and of course everything the local population de facto suffers when large infrastructure facilities are being done, whether it is Corridor 10, Corridor 11, here we are now starting some new things in June, starting down and Preljin – Požega, Kuzmin – Sremska Raca, and Moravska Corridor, indeed is the blinking of the local population for projects that are important to us throughout the country. In that sense, any kind of repairs that occur in the local roads are not the final type of repairs, because it should simply allow the traffic to continue, but it is not the repair that has to happen when the infrastructure facility is completed. This means that it is a patching with Surcin Obrenovac either last summer, but only a joint commission of state and contractors when the project is completed can be nice and due to the carrying capacity of the projection of future car numbers and freight traffic to assess what is done and how the reconstruction of that road is done afterwards. So not only that but also down in Corridor 10 and east and south, there's a lot of work to do on exactly what's called local roads. The reason I answered is to tell all these citizens, as I always do, every local road that would suffer in any way because of the construction of major infrastructure projects after the completion of the project will be completely remedied, while the project is going to work together with the performers and help the road to, practically traffic is being implemented, but when it is finished it will then be as the great infrastructure project ended in the best order and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53497	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53498	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today on the 18th agenda, six are related to finance, six to the area of construction and traffic, two laws are related to more effective law enforcement when it comes to foreigners and the employment of foreigners. One amendment and supplement applies to the Agency for Economic Registers and two amendments, i.e. consent to the systematicisation of two institutions in the work of the Assembly, such as the Protector of Citizens and the Trustee of Gender Equality. Today's session has focused on one of the most important laws that at this time is causing a lot of public interest despite the fact that over the past years people affected by certain problems have no one wanted to hear or see, let alone help. Then, above all, a serious state headed by both SNS and Aleksandra Vukic should have implemented economic reforms and brought the state into a position that it could have surpluses, stabilised its public finances so that it could solve major problems from the past, and from this past. Why do I say long ago? Because one of the points of the agenda is the practical resolution of Serbia's clearing debt towards the Czech Republic, which is part of the SFRY succession and part of the Czech and Slovak secession, so we now have the opportunity to resolve this kind of debt and that is something that Serbia today should be proud to be able to settle some of the old debts that are recorded, which can relax the international relations of the two states. And that, for example, is an example of the Czech Republic and Serbia, which has good relations and indeed because of some debt from the past 20, 30 years ago, it has to solve these things. Back in 2012, you couldn't even talk about it, let alone now talking about solving people's problems, which, by 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, took practically loans from commercial banks until 2011. This problem, I said in public, it's not economic, and we can't even look at it on that economic side, whether it's worth it or not. This problem is a social issue of people who became social cases because, in 2005, 2006 to 2011, they believed those who led the Republic of Serbia, believed in what was behind them, which was the campaign of individual ministers, the then government that sat in the government along with the democratic party, along with President Boris Tadic, and simply propagated that it was ideal to have such loans at the time. Not saying how much of a risk it is that in the future you have such loans and do not convert them into euro. In the end, both the National Bank and the State were fenced entirely by the possibility of disturbances in the capital market, i.e. the increase in interest rates when it came to Swiss francs, and therefore, in a certain way, they deceived their citizens on this issue and because of this today when we say that the banks were not fair to their clients we are just saying that there was no safeguard clause that was supposed to stand then in the contract to say – if there was a disturbance in the capital market, if, for example, your wars were 100% of the bags, meaning, doubled against that amount that was in 2005, 2006 to 2011, the bank undertakes to return them to a certain level that was on the day that you took those loans. That's not what happened. These safeguard clauses by, therefore, there were no commercial banks, and there was no response from the National Bank at the time, which was, of course, in 2013, which sought to carry out judicial proceedings that the users of these loans themselves had submitted and somewhere the National Bank as far as it could have done, the Cassation Court as it could have done, but all this was not obvious enough to allow users of these loans to service those obligations. It came to the fact that those people who raised 50,000-euro loans had 25,000 dinar rates, because they had salaries of 50,000 dinars, paid practically the entire value of their apartment after 10 years, and owed so much that they were simply not able to service their debt, and they had to, say, if they didn't have to pay back their apartments for the war to the banks that were re-selling those apartments in the capital market. Such a case has come to date that we have 1,500 apartments sold, that is to say take them from the committees, that you have 15,500 people who need to continue to serve and somehow struggle to pay their wars, and that these wars are to them, retailes, as much as one whole salary, and even that certain people have come to an end, when it comes to their physical health. We're not saying that the banks here were unfair to their committees at the time of the loan, but they were unfair when there was a change in policy and they were unfair in the moment to inform their committees that they needed to change certain conditions when they were in question, even giving them the opportunity to change their contracts. What was going on on the capital market? Since 2005, the relationship between the Swiss franc and the euro has been 1.65 and 1.5, until it reached 2011 at 1.2 until they were almost even, and the committees had to pay two bases to the banks, which means they paid unfounded debts on the currency clause, by exchange rate and interest, and the banks had to charge only their share of interest, which means interest and exchange rates. The main committee was not paid at all, and that is what was extremely unfair to clients, because at the time the state gave that opportunity on the market as a kind of financial service, the possibility of protecting the users of loans from these problems. What we have as a case today is that we have certain criticisms under this law and by certain NGOs who say that there has been no public debate on this matter and this law, and I will tell you that such a public debate was at the very meeting of the Ministry of Finance which gathered all these people, who practically stayed on the street and others in trouble with these loans, that it was a kind of public debate and direct communication with the people who came here today to propose this law. The second part of the criticism concerns the fiscal council itself, which said it was not good to serve debt from Serbia's budget. We all know that it is not good to do this, but to look calmly and extremely irresponsiblely, that 15,500 people become social cases of the Republic of Serbia, no government, no president of the state can. That's why the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vucic, got involved in something like this. But when you look at the opposition's criticisms that this law actually makes it impossible for us to conduct court proceedings, it just doesn't stand. Every Serbian citizen has the right, if he wants to initiate any judicial dispute, including on these loans, to run something like this. It can change the basis for the initiation of proceedings, it is given the right, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, and we are also given the right here as MPs to bring a kind of lek specialis, where we will protect the interests of citizens, because they are calling on it, that every state, every government must protect the interests of citizens of Serbia and the interests of consumers and must react. It is true that the most difficult decision is if you are doing it from the Republic of Serbia's budget. But there is no other way that the National Bank and the Cassation Court could have provided such conditions for the committees, to solve their problem and they would have done so by now. They made certain decisions, postponed and were unable to implement this protest and make life easier for these people, and therefore both the president of the state and the government of Serbia and the National Assembly had to engage simply in solving such a problem. That's what I think the most important thing is that this Lex specialis doesn't need to share us partyically, but it needs to unite us in this kind of adoption and consensus, to help society of people who really came into this situation. When we talk about an opposition that has a face to criticise any law, including this one, then it should be said that the same Bosko Obradovic has his deputies here the Dvori who represent the effectiveness of certain problems, when it comes to the Swiss francs, has the right to come to the Committee on Finance and ask the National Bank why it does not solve problems in court, but therefore – cadija sues you, cadija sues you. Gilas and Vuk Jeremic were the ones who supported the political option that provided these loans, and Mr. Bosko Obradovic defends these loans, so that in this way they earn money from these citizens and then before 2012, and even now in 2019, on the basis of which they defend them, under the gesture – we will do all of this gratis, and in fact together with the judges they delay and work unequivocally for the banks this whole business. Therefore, such a degree of hypocrisy can only be prevented if they return here when the day of voting and support such a lex specialis. Otherwise, the size of both this government and the president of the state is that he realized what problems to solve in society, although for these problems none of these people sitting in this assembly really were obliged to solve. It's up to us as a society, that the problems that thinn us and become social problems in society we have to solve and it's not a simple job, but we have shown that simply, based on the weight of these problems we can face and solve. What is important to say is that the problem of resolving loans in Switzerland is conversion and reducing interest rates, in fact, it has shown that the consensus between all associations of citizens who have dealt with this problem has been accepted on this side, that the banks have accepted this proposal, that both the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance have come out together practically with this proposal and that is what we have for the first time in society today as a consensus of all stakeholders. It's not a good thing Lex specialis can't include all the people who've been hit, and that's also these 1,500 people who have sold their apartments, to which banks, for example, have taken over and are simply part of a distant past where we simply can't touch. Lex specialis is always one political issue and solving problems in society. Those who led us to this today do not want to talk about it, and this topic will certainly want to go on as far as possible, in a worse way of presenting in society as one political purchase, but also they have tried these people to cheat another time to manipulate them politically, to try to make them strikers and numbers that support politics against Alexander Vukic, and simply, this congregation majority has not allowed it. For this reason, in the voting day, we also appeal to parliamentary groups that are not members of the ruling coalition to support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53499	Thank you, colleague Tomic. We continue in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. Alexandra Belačić, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53500	We welcome the decision to solve the problem of the Swiss francs, but we believe this bill is bad for several reasons. First of all, the problem is that this bill is contrary to the position of the Supreme Cassation Court and opens up the possibility for business banks to re-damage citizens in euros or other currencies through their credit activities. The position of the Supreme Cassation Court is in agreement with the European Court of Justice ruling in favour of credit users, or confirmed that banks did not fulfil the obligation to pre-contractual information to credit users on all aspects, potential risks and possible economic consequences. Given that this regime is seeking Serbia's entry into the EU, the question is raised -- why have you disobeyed the law, the European Court of Justice's verdict, as well as the ruling of the domestic court, and is it worth ignoring these judgments to protect banking interests? We also believe that this solution to the conversion of euro loans is not safe for several reasons. First of all, the variable interest rate provided for by the bill cannot be greater than 3.4% plus a three-month or six-month euros. Euribor is currently at a historic minimum last year and is about minus 0.3%. However, can we be sure that there will be no growth in the euro elections in the coming period. The official view is that an abnormal jump of the Eurybor can occur only if there is a systematic shock, such as in 2008, when the global economic crisis occurred, however, the fact is that the eurobor was about 4% and 2000 when there was no crisis. So, there's a jump in this reference rate that can happen again. This could happen after Bregzit or some other events on the international political scene. Since banks have 30 days to deliver bids, and users 30 days to make a statement about the offer, i.e. to inform the bank if they accept the offer, there may already be a small increase of francs in that two-month period compared to the euro, and there may be a serious problem similar to the problem our citizens had when borrowing indexed in Swiss francs. Lex specialist, therefore, will reduce the war, but it is not a good solution because it cannot guarantee the course of the euro. And although the National Bank protects the dinar from the growth of the euro, it would certainly take certain measures if the francs were strengthened compared to the euro. It would not be able to prevent the growth of the interest rate, given the strength of our economy and our economy compared to the European economy. Therefore, there is another problem, which is that in this law you did not pay attention to the different groups of credit users. To begin with, we have those whose interest was defined as libor plus margins. For example, these are the users who are in charge of the Bank ‘Inthesis’, then we have those whose interest was unclearly determined and variable according to the bank’s policy, and then fixed by the NBS regulation of 2011, as is the case with the users in charge of the ‘Erste’ and ‘Rajfaisen’ banks, and we also have a group of users who are in charge at fixed interest rates. Also, users can be divided into different groups compared to the payment deadline, let them take credit for 15 to 20 years, some at 25, 30 years and more. Because of all these factors, the only correct solution, instead of the conversion of loans indexed in euro francs, would be to deindexion into domestic currency, or to dinars. In view of the fact that when lending to the bank, they provide a secondary emission of money, i.e. they issue money that did not exist in the financial system until then, that money is transferred to the account of the creditor of the dinar value, and therefore does not need to be physically present for conversion. This allowed domestic banks that had never owned Swiss francs, even borrowed to grant loans indexed in this currency, which is contrary to the conclusion of the Supreme Cassation Court which took the view that the housing loans indexed in the Swiss francs were nothing, only if the bank provided evidence that it was in debt in that currency for the placement of the appropriations. If we leave aside and the euro course and the fact that the Supreme Cassation Court's position is being covered, we can list a number of other reasons why this bill is controversial. First of all, this bill of law did not punish the bank, legalized their robbery and did not diminish what was illegally taken from the debtor. Banks in Serbia knowingly placed indexed loans with the intention of making extra profits, aware of the fact that loans are granted to citizens who are completely incompetent compared to the Swiss currency, since profits are received in dinars. In addition to interest rates each month, citizens had to pay two exchange rates, a franc compared to the euro and the euro, and credit users were not adequately and sufficiently professionally familiar with all possible risks. The question arises as to why the banks did not approve foreign exchange loans and it is very important to conclude that if the banks approve the foreign exchange credit they have an obligation to interest at the National Bank in the mandatory reserves of 23% of the value of the given loan and from the funds collected savings, while, at the same time, if they approve the indexed credit, whether it is in euro or in Swiss francs, they must interest only 5% of the value of the loan given? In other words, banks for the same amount of funds can place 4.6 times more indexed than real foreign credits for the same amount of compulsory foreign reserves. Given that banks have decided to give indexed loans, it is clear that their primary objective was to raise profits, and in addition, their credit risk was secured at the expense of the Serbian state by direct transfer of credit risk to the National Credit Insurance Corporation. With this bill, you predicted that at the request, the bank would make up for 15% of the amount obtained by the conversion. The total effect of this law on the Republic of Serbia's budget will be up to 11.68 billion dinars. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that taxpayers should not bear any burden in solving the problems created by private-owned business banks. The transfer of all costs to banks would absolutely be justified and certainly would not lead to the collapse of the financial and banking system, since the issue of indexed loans generates extra profits that greatly exceed all possible costs. We would not banish foreign banks from the domestic market, but we insist that banks be forced to respect our regulations, and if some of them could not comply and if they decided to withdraw, other foreign banks and citizens would certainly not feel the consequences. I remind you that our financial and banking system was destroyed in 2002 by violently shutting down four of the largest financial institutions in the country. These are "Investbanka", "Jugobanka", "Belgrade Banka" and "Beobanka". We all know that Mladjan Dinkic, who worked directly for the benefit of the foreign banking sector, is responsible for declaring these banks. If you condemn such a practice and if you work, first of all, for the benefit of our citizens, then there was no need to court the European Union by forgiving their share of the blame and allowing the banks to keep all the generated profits. One more thing is extremely problematic with this bill, which is the fact that it covers only the loans that are currently in disbursement. According to official data, loans in Switzerland currently pay a little more than 16800 citizens, while according to data from various Swiss-led associations, loans were taken by about 25,000 people. The question is, what about those who lost their apartments in the meantime because they couldn't pay the wars? Will those dwellings be returned to them? We believe that this would be the only fair solution without mentioning many people who have raised their hands to themselves for not being able to pay the wars. This law is discriminatory by many things, first of all discriminates against those users who are not in charge of Swiss francs compared to those who are. It then discriminates against credit debtors in relation to the way interest rates are formed and payment deadlines are also discriminated against by those users to whom the assets have been seized or the loans have managed to pay in relation to those who still pay. We support the intention to pass a bill on the conversion of credits indexed in Switzerland and to solve the problem, but this proposed solution is bad and citizens before they accept or reject an offer from the bank must know that we will address the Constitutional Court and that this bill, or the law after adoption, will certainly be brought down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53501	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53502	Thank you. Dear MPs, first of all, to respond to suggestions or remarks that we had the opportunity to hear. So, this law is in no way in the conflict with the Supreme Court's decision. Not only is it not in college, but it has also been made in light of the findings of the Supreme Cassation Court, but also in view of both the interests and the citizens of Serbia who also took the credit from the business banks and of course the state. I need to remind you of one thing you may be neglecting here, which Serbian citizens should know, who doesn't want to convert loans from Swiss francs to euro -- no need. So whoever believes they'll get a better solution in court, no one's stopping him from continuing to defend himself in court to fight to get a better solution. So this law gives citizens of Serbia and the commitment to business banks, which is a big difference, therefore, to the banks to offer a 38% write-off conversion and the possibility for citizens of Serbia who took loans in Swiss francs to accept such write-offs and such an offer. Unless they want, of course, and if they believe that they will get better and more in court, they have the right to justice and demand in court. I'd take advantage of the opportunity to give you and I'd be very happy if you type these numbers, I have a few examples of credit, what it's going to look like, before or after the conversion. Here's the exact number. For example, a fixed interest rate and a 360-month deadline. Let's say the approved loan was 77,500 Swiss francs and was approved 01.01.2007 at 360 months. The interest rate on this one bank whose example I took was 4.35%, so the last annuity paid by the credit user was 386 Swiss francs, or 336 euros. On the day of 01.03.2019, if you take the day of the cut, the rest of that person's debt is 57,500 Swiss francs, which is about 50,000 euros. After the conversion, 38% of the debt would be 31,000 euros and if the credit user chose a fixed interest rate, and we maximised it, or we limited it to 4%, then the annuity would be 203 euros. Instead of 336, it's 203. It's important to see the difference between the annuity before and after conversion. It's up to every citizen to decide whether or not he's going to take that chance. What the law allows is for this opportunity to come and come and that is the greatest and most important purpose of this law and the most important role of the state, to try to help citizens who need it. Once again, this is not a simple law, this is not a simple topic. It's a complex subject. The compromise contained in this law is the compromise of all three sides, so also citizens, that is, their associations that represent them, both business banks and, ultimately, the state of Serbia. I think we did a good thing. The risk of the interest rate you mentioned earlier can be resolved, given that there is a choice or variable rate or fixed interest rate, but, you know, if you start now from the finance theory, there must be a capital price, especially borrowed capital. So there's no way you can lend someone something without interest unless he's your friend. That's how business banks work. So these are some of the basics of the financial system that we can now question, but I don't know what the point of it is. As far as this law is concerned, it is therefore not in conflict with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Supreme Cassation Court itself speaks of the conversion of loans from Swiss francs to euro, and we build on it and build on it and say that there is a possibility of a 38% conversion without charging a tight interest and involving all those who used housing loans in Swiss francs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53503	Thank you very much. The word is Alexandra Belacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53504	Thank you. Dear Minister, when you say it's impossible to borrow money without interest unless it's a friendly loan, you admit that the banks already have their interest in the domestic financial market by collecting interest. When creating the bill, you should not have taken into account the same interests of citizens and the interests of banks, because you have damaged citizens by this compromise, but should have taken care of the interests of citizens only, since banks have already charged their services. As far as the Supreme Cassation Court's position is concerned, he clearly says that indexing is nothing, unless the bank has provided evidence that it is in debt in that currency in which the appropriations are paid, so I would like to ask you a question whether you have evidence that all the banks that will offer conversion contracts in euro and in what amount? Is that amount of response to the amount to be converted? In particular, I've come up with information that the Direct Bank is currently offering no housing loans indexed in euro, so I'm curious how that's not contrary to the position of the Supreme Cassation Court? It is also very important for citizens to be warned that if they accept bank offers and sign a contract, that they themselves recognise the debt in that amount that they account for under this law, and that, unless the bill, or the law, falls in the Constitutional Court, they will not be able to press charges because they have already accepted that they owe as much as you have charged them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53505	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53506	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected from the SNS list in the Serbian Parliament, and I represent the United Peasants' Party. I'll say the same thing as my colleagues so far. I will normally put an accent on all our people farmers who took these loans in Swiss, took loans to buy an apartment for their loved ones, for their grandson, for their son, but it happened, I can say, in a way, and the fraud because a large number of our friends from the village, from small places, came from daily, or every month as they repay the loan they repay and they come from an even greater debt. I have my close friends who took these loans with a desire to make life easier for themselves, but they have made life worse for themselves this way. Once again, I would like to thank as our president, Mr. Vukic, who, along with all the people who were on strike at the time, were looking for a solution, we have now found a solution. This solution is certainly better than it was before, because no one before this government had solved us here and should have tried to solve this problem. This problem is really confusing, a problem that creates a big problem for everyone, but in the first plan we are here talking about our small-town people, from bigger places that took credits in Swiss, took apartments, and now has the opportunity to make their future life easier for them. Maybe it was better to do it sooner, but it's better now than tomorrow. Once again, I, as a folk MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support this law and all these bill proposals because I think this is now better than it was before. Once again, I would also like to thank the president of Serbia and you finance ministers and everyone in the government. I expect since we're really, we have a lot of problems that are inherited, I'm going to talk about some problems that concern our agricultural insurance companies. For example, the 1986 law was passed to pay social pensions for agricultural producers, and in 2008 the government led by Mirko Cvetkovic did something disastrous. He transferred that debt to only one owner, to all members of the land. So since 2008 there's interest on interest here for all those people, agricultural insurance companies, that's millions of figures. I'm sure we'll find the opportunity just like we do now for these people who have problems in Switzerland, to find a way to solve problems for our people who pay for agricultural retirement insurance to have a safer future. I'm sure we've already started working on that, we've had a meeting where there were a few of us MPs, where he was a representative of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the PIO Fund, and I expect to find a solution there. I'm sure of it because this government of ours, our president of Serbia, and all of us are thinking the best way to help all those who have entered some of the dubiosis that some of the people who led the country from 2000 to 2012. Once again, I will support this law regarding our people working with small children in preschool institutions. Now for the first time they're even with those who work at school. I'd like to ask you, Minister, since it will fall on the burden of our local self-government. We're like a small local Srlig administration, and there's a series of them, as they say, do domestically. We have the opportunity now to restore and increase the capacity of kindergartens, but we do not have the opportunity to place a higher wage margin on people who work in kindergartens, those educators who ended up in high school meanwhile, with their wages increasing and in some way that they can work easier and better. I am also sure that you as Minister of Finance and the whole government will normally find the opportunity to help all those who need it, to provide a better future for all those people living in a village, living in our small municipalities and living in all Serbia. Thanks again. I'll vote for all these draft laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53507	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53508	The Serbian Radical Party is in favour of resolving the problems facing most citizens in this country, especially the part that has been credited with resolving its existential issues. We are not in favor of a solution that is against the Constitution and that is against the law. This solution offered by the Government is primarily against constitutional and against the law. Oppositely because it discriminates among citizens, it does not protect all citizens, because if you single out one group, specifically in this case, which is in charge of Swiss francs, then those who are in other currencies or foreign exchanges are citizens of the second order. As far as the law is concerned, there is no law that allows budgetary resources to be used for this purpose and this way. That law doesn't exist. We have, as the government has pointed out, experience from our environment. There's only Duj to finish Alexander, so I'll continue. I'm sorry. So we have positive experience from our environment. One of the experiences is mentioned here, it is Hungary where the Hungarian government, namely the President of Hungary, has made a solution that corresponds to the citizens, but we are ahead of the initial positions of the Hungarian government. What's our advantage? The Hungarian government began the negotiations by first talking to commercial banks. On the basis of these agreements, the Government of the Hungarian Republic was activated and a solution was then adopted with the presence of the President of the Republic. They didn't have the Supreme Court's decision as we do in this situation. And what was the logic of things? The logic of the thing is that on the basis not only of this experience, but also of the experience of 2013 when banks were commercial, just to remind you of the unilaterally increasing interest rates, increasing their margins based on the court's decision, the rulings of the Court of Justice have come into the situation that, by having to respect the court's decision with the notice of the NBS, they have returned these interest to normal. It's a second case. What was supposed to apply here? It was only meant to be applied to both examples and to say – talking to commercial banks in the nature of things should be run by the NBS Central Bank, i.e. the governor representing the bank. On the basis of these agreements or talks, the Prime Minister should be involved or included, in the end, the Serbian government. We have a completely reverse order here. This includes the Ministry of Finance, which neither wrongly nor necessarily has to remove chestnuts from the fire for not respecting the hierarchy, which was not followed by the procedure that following the ruling of the Supreme Cassation Court, the NBS should have given guidance on respect for the verdict, and the government here says that one reason has been included to protect itself, i.e. it has the basis in the Constitution to protect the rights of citizens, the unity of the market and the monetary banking system. Since the government has included respecting this order, respecting the procedure then the government would be in a position to point out another requirement, if it is the unity of the market, if it is the banking and monetary system, so the market unity best paints, it represents a means of payment in this country, which is a dinar. One part of the reason here is that it was not possible to track the exchange rate difference between the dinars and the Swiss franc, that it had to resort to a solution to take some stable currency. We've been listening for seven years about how a dollar is a stable currency, so what do we need the euro for if it's a stable currency? Was it not quite logical to say – all loans on the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be converted into dinars? What are the conditions? Those that commercial banks prescribe, those that are in accordance with the law, those who are in accordance, after all, as we have heard here many times, in accordance with the interests of these commercial banks and the interests of clients who use these loans. It's completely mixed up here, and now there's a solution that's one-time, and the only question is when are the problems of citizens who are in debt in other currencies, who are in charge of the euro, who are in charge of the dollars. It's only a matter of when he'll show up. How can the government say - we won't help you because you didn't charge in Swiss francs? That's impossible. That's the point. The Serbian Radical Party therefore insists and therefore we warn you that we will appeal to the Constitutional Court, which is quite normal and understandable, because the constitution must not be violated. With all the understanding of the problems faced by this particular group of citizens, this solution was extorted when the strike of credit users in Swiss francs was radicalised, so even the president of the Republic had to come out to make a promise, and then back-to-back to say, it's going towards a solution, looking for a Lex specialis to solve the individual problem, a partial problem. You haven't solved it, the problem facing Serbia and Serbia's citizens. You just solved one small part, one small segment, and that's because the president of the state put pressure on the National Bank of Serbia instead of putting pressure on the National Bank of Serbia to give instructions to respect the Supreme Cassation Court's decision. How the government works and how it acts when it comes to finance may be the best example of what the minister tried to quickly explain, this clearing debt. We're paying back the debt to the agency that bought part of the debt from the Czech Republic. No one knows under what conditions. No one knows how it happened, how it came to be a deal. The minister himself says -- Serbia itself has decided to repay those debts, clearing debts. How has Serbia decided on its own? I presented on the Finance Committee the information that is correct. The lawyer's office of this agency "Rondex" reports to the agency and says – it is promising, no matter what 11 years have passed, we have a positive practice of the London Court of Justice that says that even after 10 years, when the deadline expires, we have the right to demand the payment of the debt resulting from the purchase of a clearing debt from the Czech Republic. There's a little work to be done here in a hurry. We have to have a history of why it's all done, what's the reason it's done like that? Of course, with the Czech Republic, we should always have good relations, sit down and agree whether this clearing debt can go back to something else, and not as we think it is, that it is a reduction in debt, when it comes to cash. What the Serbian Radical Party notices here, and presents to the public now, is that even in this South Stream loan you have something that is noticeably different. You have three, conditionally speaking, different banks. You have the Commercial Bank of Belgrade, you have the General Bank of Belgrade and you have the Vojvodjanska Banka. The two first give 30m euros per loan to Srbiagas, and the Vojvodina Bank gives 10m euros to Srbiagas. The interest on which they give is different, so the General Bank gives at a rate of 1.42% per year, the Commercial Bank 1.38 and the Vojvodjanska Banka 1.75. “Vojvodjanska Banka” – read the OTP bank. It's a Hungarian bank. Could it have been negotiated with a Chinese bank? Was it negotiated with a Russian bank? How come these three banks are so different interest rates? Someone says it's negligible. It's nothing negligible when it comes to the annual level. These are long-term loans, which are 70m euros to raise "Serbia" and be guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. There's nothing negligible about it. As for this agency, which is from France, you know, it has wings – the World Bank at the entrance says: “We are fighting hunger.” And the world's greatest hunger culprit, generally represented and ever more present in the world, is this World Bank, so this winged woman under which this French agency performs only that they will also participate in additional borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53509	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53510	Dear MPs, what you may not have known and what is related to the solution in Hungary is that this solution is one piece and brought down in front of the European Court of Justice and the question is what will be the consequences of this decision both in Hungary and in the whole process. Nobody knows that right now. But that's exactly what we wanted to use to prepare this law. When I say Hungary, I mean that solution where there was a mandatory conversion from francs to forints. So, the European Court of Justice has just partially knocked down this obligation and left the citizens with an opportunity to agree, in the sense that, if necessary, take down these contracts and negotiate new ones with banks. That's exactly the solution we're applying here. So here, in this law, you have the flexibility to deal with the bank by the credit user. If he doesn't want to, let them go to court. But as a state, we give them that possibility, just avoiding the scenario that happened in Hungary, or with the greatest desire to avoid this scenario at the moment, where, behold, I have been doing it for a few weeks, so far there is no one who will in the right way or who can at this point assess the effects of that decision in Hungary. We'll see in months and years to come, but in the end, I say again, we just wanted to avoid that scenario. On debt regulation towards the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Rondex, I want to tell you that the issue dates back to 1991. So no one remembered yesterday, it opened for 27, 28 years and burdens bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic, as is burdened by bilateral relations between Slovakia and the Republic of Serbia. Then you ask, "What is it all of a sudden?" It's nothing all of a sudden. This succession, which has been defined and this process in 2001, if I am not mistaken, lasts and who knows how many years it will last. We are not on our own, in the sense that, behold, suddenly we have nothing else to do, but alone out of the desire to complete this process that has been burdening our countries' relations for 27, 28 years, we have money in the budget and we have negotiated what it is under the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing, when you talk about the percentages of the write-off, I will read to you: 1 November 1991, then the SFRY on the total debt that was according to the Czech Republic and Slovakia agreed to pay an interest rate of 5.5% a year and to make the commitment, to settle that debt in the conversion currency by parity one clearing dollar equal to one US dollar. How long was the debt not regulated until 1991? We can only imagine, since 1991, since the interest, which we have been able to negotiate in a way that is not taken into account when writing down the principal of 70%, imagine what that loan would look like if you were 5.5% a year, so each year, you would add up and see how big that amount of debt would be from 1991. I think it was responsible to cut it, that what was so old and burdened us to solve, and we with 70% of the write-off, not only to settle that old clearing debt, but also to solve or take off the list of things that burden us in bilateral relations with both the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and then in peace to discuss both the future, and new investments, and co-operation in many other areas. This wasn't possible without having monetary stability, without having money. So we're going to pay the nominal value of $13 million, without charging those tight interest rates, with 30% of that amount, and we're going to take down exactly that much, so 13 million and something, from the public debt that we have at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53511	The word is Milorad Mircic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53512	Mr. Minister, you're a little off what's key. The key role of the government is these 15%, which in the total balance of 38% participates in the reduction of debt in Switzerland. By what law can the government do that? By whom? Budgetary law? You didn't, Minister, give a budget rebalance, you didn't hint anywhere. You'll act from the reserve. You can't do that – I'm telling you about it. As for Hungary, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, but I don't think you're quite right. Commercial banks only have one motto, that's their interest. There is no bank that will oppose the Hungarian Government's decision, and it is aware that it is neglecting its very significant commercial interests. As far as projections are concerned, we are more protected here. The Supreme Cassation Court has not done anything that will be challenged in the International Court tomorrow, what will the EU challenge tomorrow? That's impossible. As for the clearing debt, Minister, you've replaced here. No one says that the Czech Republic is not to be maintained fully correct relations, but this is about an agency based in the Cayman or Caribbean islands. It's usually called an offshore company in the people. They bought for much cheaper, for much less money they bought this debt that was according to the Czech Republic. It's a clearing debt and they're running out of time. In 1991, it was the year Stipe Mesic led the SFRY. Why did Serbia have to go on its own, regardless of its partial balance, 32% belongs to Serbia, 28% belongs to Croatia and to all other republics of the former SFRY, just Rondex to settle now? Let's talk to the Czech Republic, even through the clearing to exchange some goods, to find some solution, but why Rondex when all the deadlines are up? Why are the deadlines running out? The deadlines were up because they didn't apply within 10 years, they couldn't collect it, it was a state of war. After all, you were part part of the government that re-applyed to the UN for recognition of the SRJ. That's when you were in that peto-octobaric enthusiasm. You should have thought back then that there were some consequences, but not to switch to...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53513	That would be a replica. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's today's opportunity to discuss a law that concerns our citizens in charge of the Swiss francs, the alleged evil banks that are foreign and that a part of the loss resulting from the Serbian budget will be covered by one of these laws. At all, when we begin to discuss this problem, we have to deal with the causes and reasons why we are in a situation like this today. I'm really sorry that after years of the former regime's representatives shed crocodile tears on citizens who have taken up loans indexed in the Swiss franc, they're not here now. Perhaps it would be good for some things to hear, and perhaps knowingly flee from here so that their responsibility would not be recognized in discussions, not political responsibility, but responsibility of another nature. This esteemed LDP colleague says - no mention of the former regime. It should, because this problem, like many others, was created during the rule of the former regime. What is now paying for losses, which result from the adoption of these laws, is paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and certainly is the cause that one former government and one former regime have made. How did we come by this problem? First, there was no adequate legal regulation for such loans that would protect both banks and credit users. In such a situation that the state is always guilty of, the bank cannot, the bank only uses the opportunities given to it by the state, and then we will come up with a reason why the state has given these opportunities to banks, and because of the imperfection of our legal system, we now have contracts that cause certain damage to both citizens and banks, and to the state. How was that really missing? Don't let anyone convince me there weren't any cheating stores here by the banks. First, by that decision of the NBS your loan war, which is residential, can only amount to 1/3 of the profits you have. That's right, 1/3 of the profits you get when these loans were made. If a citizen wants to apply for a euro credit due to a higher interest rate, his war credit went above 30% and was rejected from that same bank. Then, in a rather double-crossed way, the same bank offered credit in Swiss francs that the citizens didn't even know existed until then. So, it's not about this, it was about someone having a calculation to get through cheaper, but most credits weren't able to raise the credit they needed in the euro. How is it that banks have made the rules of deceitful action? The first thing was a variable interest rate and someone would say – what did you sign? Because when he informed himself about the loan, the client was promised a lower interest rate and that at this point it is high, otherwise in the future it will be even smaller. That's how it was. When someone says – well, we are now offering some variable interest rates, yes, but one fixed part that cannot be changed and the variable part that relates to circumstances that neither the bank nor the contractor, or the bank's client, depends on the European Central Bank. What else did we have as a consequence? Under the then Foreign Exchange Act, the currency clause, whether or not allowed, has given its opinion to the Supreme Cassation Court and I do not want to go into it, but I know another circumstance. Citizens could raise loans in foreign exchanges, not with a currency clause, but in foreign exchanges today would not have the problem. Did we all agree, or at least most fellow MPs, that the withdrawal of banks in the Swiss franc was not even close, which the banks withdrew as sources of funding, the figure in which the citizens were in charge? So she couldn't even give that credit. Why was the currency clause used? The currency clause was used for another type of extra profit, it is called speculative action or greening, which is that citizens were granted a credit with a foreign exchange clause in a lower course, and when they returned credit at a higher rate and the bank, apart from credit business, was forced to apply both foreign exchange business and there created a certain extra profit. Now I've dealt with legal causes and causes related to the internal situation. But let's look at some of the other reasons why banks used to settle for this kind of loan. No one can convince me that banks did not know about the global economic crisis in 2005 or 2006. No one can convince me. No one can convince me that during that same period, the same bank did not know that the Greek debt was unsustainable and when the crisis occurred, the first global economic crisis in 2008, the Greek crisis in 2010, at the peak of 2011, then the Swiss franc problem arises. You have more ways to protect the capital. One way is for capital owners to buy gold. However, gold and resources are limited. It's not in unlimited quantities. The American banks have decided to provide a share of capital with real estate, which has only strengthened the global economic crisis and its consequences. There's a so-called. Safe currency. Security currencies are, among other things, a Swiss franc, a Kuwaiti dinar and a Swedish crown. To protect their capital, because if the global economic crisis is due to a drop in both dollars and euros, and the euro is even more pronounced because of the Greek debt, banks have resorted to protecting their capital from loans indexed in the Swiss franc. How much can we blame the banks? Really very little, because the state let it happen and that's where the problem arises. Was there an obstacle to the NBS and 2005, 2006, 2007. In 2008, she says that these loans are banned and that such contracts with citizens can no longer be concluded, but only in 2011? Now we come to the core of the problem, when we mention the former regime, when we mention the former government, when we mention so-called. evil foreign banks. Is it that those who are the founders of these banks are not from Serbia, but I ask one question – who led these banks in Serbia? None of my colleagues, no one remembered the Duke of Merdian Banks, a former finance minister, seemed to have been for European integration, the famous Duke of Merdian Banks. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic and I gave him a name when he served as finance minister the nickname of Bozo Derikoz. By the way, first name and last name Bozidar Djelic. They also called him Mickey Mouse, but I won't mention it. Now we come to the point that I have to ask a question – do you know how much the Duke of the Merdian Bank has received from these banks for loans indexed in the Swiss franc? There's talk of 10 million, but the euro. That's what we know. We have a lot of things we don't know. I don't know how much he got. I don't know how much they all got when they ran foreign evil banks in Serbia, and everyone running them from Serbia and all the fat and fat charges between them and these citizens who had loans indexed in Swiss francs. We can talk about it - was it in accordance with the law? I personally believe, but that's my opinion, that it isn't, but I'm sure it wasn't necessary for them to participate in the government, to be with the government, and to run banks and make legal regulations that banks make extra profits, and that they put part of that extra profit in their pocket. Because of the degree of confidentiality of this information, I believe that we will never really know how much they took from these banks as an insult to one crime against their citizens. There's a problem. Some of my colleagues say, well, let's pass the law and turn it into dinars, so we'll count them dinar interest, etc. Trust me, banks cheer for such a law, cheer for such a law. They wouldn't have to write off 200 euros and a change of millions of euros that they gained on the exchange rate differences between dinars, euros and Swiss francs. One more thing, they wouldn't have to worry about a single dinar of high-priced loans in Swiss francs anymore - whether they'd be charged or not. They'd get us all, the whole state in front of international courts, and the Republic of Serbia would have to pay banks a lot more damage than these 11 billion dinars. The lawyers know what I'm talking about. Now he asks me a team of questions -- that's the money of Serbian citizens. This money you took from them through banks wasn't the money of Serbian citizens? They weren't Serbian businesses? They weren't these countries? They were someone else's space? Because we want to facilitate the situation in which these citizens of ours have found themselves in one of the state's carelessnesss, one absence of responsibility, and even more so, inciting such loans? So that there is a responsibility of the former regime state tells the fact that in 2007 or 2008 the government of Vojislav Kostunica, those who have shed crocodile tears here, is a regulation that reduces the cost of insurance at the National Credit Insurance Corporation for loans indexed in Swiss francs, so that citizens can raise them as much as possible. It's not some other Serbia. This is Serbia that we inherited and the obligations we inherited because of a highly irresponsible state leadership. What's left? They say there's a possibility that contracts are void. Can the Assembly decide by law? He can't. Can the Assembly decide and pass the law that the principles of equality and equality in the conclusion of a contract under the Law on Bond Relations are fulfilled? He can't. Could the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, assess whether there are hidden faults in these contracts, or lack of will, as one of our colleagues said? He can't. Can the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia assess in one law whether these contracts are the subject of greening, speculative actions and interest? He can't. There's no way, only courts and no one else can. Can all our citizens afford one such luxury? As far as I'm aware, only a dozen percent have decided to go to trial, the rest must not. They're afraid to avenge the banks if they lose court proceedings, they're afraid of court costs, but they're also afraid of expensive and good lawyers who can beat the banks. What's left of those citizens? Instead of the streets, as some colleagues do, we can also try to help them as much as our public finances allow us to do, and yet not violate the principle of equality between citizens who have raised credit in euros and whose state pays nothing. If someone does a simulation of this law, with a simulation of credits in euro, you will see that the users of credit in Swiss francs still have to pay the dinar equivalent back something greater than those of the citizens who have raised in euro and this principle is respected when it comes to the National Assembly and this principle is respected when it comes to this law. What else did we need besides funds in this law? The deal with the banks, because if there was no agreement with the banks, we could be sued by international courts and again all the damage they were made to win in the dispute against the Republic of Serbia, and even when we passed the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, it had to be brought about for the situation in the negotiations with the banks. We were dealing with some problems in the future, but for those problems that arose before the law was passed, we had to negotiate with the banks' associations. When the National Bank in 2015 first tried to mitigate the adverse consequences of the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs and then it was done in agreement with banks and banks had to, or accepted to work on contract annexes with citizens. So it wasn't solved by a general act or if it was solved by a general act of law, it was done in agreement with both sides. These are all serious risks per country, not only for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also for the economy and the financial market. Tell me the country in the world, I'd like someone to tell me, who can develop an economy without a developed banking sector, with all the shortcomings that make it go away. I don't think there's a country like that in the world. If we're brutal to one side or another, we've done damage to the state. If we say loans indexed in Swiss francs, so you know, you signed, we don't care, so we're going to have 16,000 social cases, so figure out how long they're going to get back on their feet to get out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You'll see that the damage is greater, that I'm not talking about the pain these families are going to have in the future, or if we're going to destroy the financial sector, whether we're going to be able to borrow the economy, the consumption. Here, we can do it in other ways and it doesn't always have to be on the domestic market. This also discusses the responsibility of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who first went among the citizens to talk to them and to promise them not a final solution, but to promise them that he would try his authority, as president of the Republic of Serbia to boost the negotiations between the banks and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how to resolve their problem. As a result of that promise, we have this law today. Could we have gotten into one of these before? Perhaps, but not much, because this took us to have stable public finances, to have enough money from the budget to cover one part of the loss, one part of the bank and unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia will have to. That's the price everyone pays by passing one of these laws. Do citizens have the right to seek judicial protection even after the adoption of this law? Of course, you should. Whoever thinks it's damaged and this law has the right to judicial protection. So, all the serious elements of a law like this has, but let's just drop these stories that we're going to solve with one ordinary law that everyone's populist would like us to be able to bring, that the damage will only be suffered by banks and no one else, I guarantee you that in the end the Republic of Serbia would pay dearly. That's the difference, this law is the difference between the former regime, which who knows how he treated not only the state, but also his citizens and thought it was a chicken, and that both citizens and the state were hens, so as much more affecting both these governments and the SNS and the President of the Republic, who care about both the state and the citizens and the entire financial system. At this point, this is the best we can offer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Will there be a moment in the future for us to pass any other laws that would make our problems easier? I don't know, he probably will. But in any case, because of all the problems that have arisen, one law should be supported with all its shortcomings and faults, which he certainly has, but this problem cannot be solved by one law alone, it takes whole processes to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53515	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today's session is saying somehow that you from the ruling majority aren't exactly in the mood to bring order into our work. Again, we have 18 agenda points that have nothing to do with each other, and it's not a good practice, we expected you to break up with that practice, but we now have to think about what the proposals are to discuss. Here, before I say anything under any bill, Mr. Djordjevic, I must address you like this, to give you a secret. You may not know that in your services, this has nothing to do with these proposals, but I am simply taking advantage of the opportunity that you are here, that solutions are being made in your services in a letter to the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a Latin letter. So please warn all your services, therefore, all those under your authority that the Cyrillic letter is an official letter in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to these bill proposals, it is best to listen to the ministers when they explain the bill's proposals and then it seems to me and accidentally say what the real state of these proposals is. The problem with these duties in the Swiss francs is something that has been present for years and has been talked about for years, they've been trying to find solutions. I'm not going to be very specific about this proposal right now because we've put amendments on all of your laws so that we can speak according to the amendments because you didn't allow us to speak through the agenda. Minister Sinisha Mali actually said the point. He says, this problem exists, no one tried to solve it, and then the President of the Republic came and we solved the problem. Well, that's a problem. That's the problem that you didn't do it professionally, systematically, which is not done by the National Bank and it has nothing to do with the President of the Republic. It's that problem that you do volunteering and it's not good either. You can't, said one of our colleagues, you can't talk about the budgets until 2025, and you're specifically writing some figures here, which will be part of the 2025 budget, who knows what the majority of the assembly will be, who knows how the balance will be in finance. It's just amazing how much trouble you've come to this problem, in fact, unseriously. It is similar with this bill, where you will increase salaries for preschool employees from May 1st. And we put the amendment there, because you're doing it because you have money, so you said, you think that the money you saved, which is saved, if that's the case, and we don't know if it is, because the budget rebalance we haven't seen since 2000, so the question is what exactly is out of what the finance ministers have been telling us for years, but if so and if you have saved some funds, then those aren't the funds that you can afford, yeah, now we're going to bring back these Swiss, yeah, now we're going to increase preschool institutions. Increase all budget tax collectors, that's what we're proposing to you. You earn these funds, Mr. Minister, which is saved, you're rebalancing the budget, so here we're all discussing how these funds will be spent, it's nobody's grandmother, and you can't brag about "we saved, so we share as we will". It's a completely wrong approach. So, the problem of the Swiss people needs to be solved, the debt needs to be converted into dinars, and all the damage must be at the expense of the banks, because banks must have, take the risk of concluding contracts that were in, at the time when they were concluded were favourable to the people who had concluded them. Now, a minute, two on these bill proposals represented here by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, who says we have a set of laws here. No, dear colleagues, we here have a shame and shame of the law, we have a law on the cataster of immovableity, which you brought in 2018, and this is the second change. Looks like the practice showed. Well, did someone use their brains when they proposed this law in 2018 and that it takes twice a year to change the law, because practice has shown that some problems have arisen. Our question is, who are you making this law for, because we saw in this proposal as well as in the explanation that it is some infrastructure projects, so what are infrastructure projects that need to be passed by emergency procedure, and Zorana Mihajlovic is talking about some future infrastructure projects? What a pain it has caused to be brought now, not but there is some infrastructure facility, which you are obviously working without a building permit and is not listed in the cadastre, and that is why you are changing this law, but of course we will determine what it is. You're saying this law needs to be passed by emergency procedure, since it is necessary to apply the law as urgently as possible. Imagine you, which is an argument, for God's sake. But you also said, in an explanation that in the drafting of the text of this law, an analysis of the problem in practice is very dangerous, because of the long-term process of solving property-legislative relations, when planning and implementing projects waste time solving these issues. Does this mean that you're going to steal people's land before you reach an agreement and before you pay the cost of expropriation? He's already living this way, but it's really bad. As a bad law on planning and construction, which you've already changed 10 times, which won't change anything, which won't legalize objects, Zorana Mihajlović every time she talks here, talks like she's talking to us for the first time, what she'll do, what good these laws will do, and we, my dears, since the last time you choose here, when you're the same law on planning and building, you said that by now, we're going to be who knows how much it ends, and you haven't passed on from town halls to city councils to solving these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53517	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53518	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, has just been mentioned. I'll tell you that I was proud to see him come down among the citizens in front of the Supreme Cassation Court and talk to them, and I think it's the job of the president of Serbia, to take care of the citizens, to point out the problems that he gives suggestions and to end up solving these problems together. I think he's done one amazing thing, and in the end, that's why he is our president. All the representatives of the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance and the legislation and various other institutions participated in the solution to the problem of these housing loans, just to find the best and most legitimate solution. And finally around the kindergarten salary and the salary increase in kindergartens, I think we've done very hard economic reforms very responsibly, and I've pointed out to you at the beginning of my presentation that in the first three months of this year we've achieved a surplus of 15.8 billion dinars, given that we've planned a deficit of 19 billion. Our first quarter score is better for 35 billion dinars than we planned, so 300m euros, and our decision, listening to what the citizens have to say, is to help those we think are needed, and these are citizens who took housing loans in Switzerland. On the other hand, we also want to help and to correct, I would say, a small injustice against employees in preschool institutions, so that the increase in salaries they received from primary schools will also be given to those in kindergartens, so an increase of 9%, which will be effected since May of this year, and which will be paid by kindergarten employees in June, May salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53519	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53520	It's worrying, Mr. Minister, that what you just said actually confirmed what I warned you about, you say, you have no idea how much surplus, and you planned the deficit and you decided to spend that money. Excuse me, have you ever heard of budget rebalance, do you know what the budget is? As far as possible, who are you, how many of you, because you can't afford it, you're an expert in finance, Mr. Minister. Don't devalue yourself. Don't do that. You can't decide for yourself. I don't mean personally, you can't, just the National Assembly through rebalancing. There's no other way. Now, you've decided to raise those salaries in the DOJ by 9%. We don't mind. But here we decided to tell you to do it for all the budget users, because you have so much money that you can do whatever you want, but don't do whatever you want, but do it the way the law obliges you. You let that populist story of what you're proud of, who you're proud of, the citizens who are in charge of the Swiss need to hear the truth that what is going to be adopted today or in the next day, will not solve their problems, that people who already have apartments will have to continue to pay off the loans, that people to whom they took apartments, sell the Buddha why, where the apartments were bought by the perpetrators' sons, perpetrators, etc., apartments that were sold below the price, that you would not compensate those people. This way, one part of the people will solve the problem and those whose problem is the smallest, which has already been solved on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53521	The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53522	Thank you very much, honourable MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing a law, MPs of the Serbian Parliament are adopting it. If he's adopted, we'll apply him. So we are not the ones who adopt or are not the ones who are doing something without the consent of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. On the other hand, for your information, we don't need budget rebalances. So if you're looking under the Budget Law for this law and this decision rebalances the budget is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53523	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53524	Ladies and gentlemen, respected finance ministers, the bill on credit conversion is actually why you don't say, social law. This law should resolve the fate of 15,800 families in the state of Serbia, i.e. around 80,000 of our citizens today eagerly await the end of this debate. We, in the Serbian Parliament, have no alternative when we pass this law. What would be the solution if we didn't pass this law? What would Serbia look like tomorrow for these people if we didn't vote for this law? We can pass this law, Mr. Minister, because Serbia differs from Serbia in 2008. Serbia in 2019 was a completely different country, in 2008, we had a deficit, i.e. to say people's Serbia could not pay off its obligations at the level of the republic and at the level of the general state. We had an unemployment rate of 25.9%, we had inflation, we had all the fiscal and macro-economic parameters that weren't arranged. Today, in 2019, Serbia looks completely different. A strong and powerful economic state, which has made it possible, primarily thanks to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to make Serbia look different in economic terms. This is a law on helping families who are at risk. This is a special law, but the law on the usual economic case that happens in the world every day hundreds of times and maybe the number of 15,600 is a small number of families, but the depth of this economic problem is so great that these families can't solve their case generationally. We also help business banks, no NPLs, help out credit insurance agencies. This isn't fiscal or monetary law. This may be economic law because it is located and moving within the economy. And it is a solution to the law in part fiscally but, listening very often to teachers from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade these days, I ask them – what is fiscal policy? Basically, the fiscal policy of the state is the exclusive right of the state to be able to allocate available resources according to the interests and laws of the Serbian assembly. The depth of the problem lies far in the past 2007-2008 The Serbian Progressive Party has no responsibility for these laws, but SNS Aleksandar Vucic and we all have a responsibility to our citizens together, according to one citizen, and not to 15,800 families. If we want the fair essence of the problem, there are three things, in maximizing profits, objective and subjective ignorance, underestimating the long-term risk of short-term profit. Three segments of the company of the National Bank, business banks and citizens. I'm listening to stories about business banks here today, it's just fine that business banks want to maximise their profits. That's what they do. It's their duty. It is perfectly okay for citizens from Serbia to want to take as cheap loans as possible and they took them, and it has no dilemma whatsoever, but it is wrong for the National Bank to release a rather risky source of funding for GDP growth based on consumption growth and to allow such a situation in which it is located. Ignorance is objective because it is impossible to predict movement on the financial market. There is no such thing, but at the same time subjective because there was enough information to realize that the economic situation in the world was going that way. Today as an economist, it bothers me to hear that there are no currency clauses, there are no exchange rate differences, there are no different exchange rates, that interest rates are the same, because that is not true, because before and after this law and after this law all these principles on which the financial market is based will exist and exist. For thousands of years now, 500 years have been written with this law and with judicial judgments, currency clauses in the world exist. That is why, Mr. Minister, economic knowledge is essential. Economic knowledge that has been denied to Serbian citizens for the last 50 years because they have lived in a society that is not economically free. Moreover, when we are making economic reforms, we need a common economic culture. General economic culture to understand that making individual business decisions involves risk. This decision and this bill of law to me is a cure. A cure for Serbia, to realize that things like this shouldn't happen. How much does it cost us? This is a small price for Serbia, a small price for society, if we learn that this situation from 2008 can happen again. Serbia has become an integral part of the global financial system. It's perfectly okay for people today to take loans in euro, which are beyond the possibility of being defined by a fixed interest rate and they're cheaper, it's correct to take them. More expensive are the loans that are in the dinars. When the governor of the National Bank calls for a dinarisation, he does not do it for no reason but it is okay to take cheap loans, as it is right that at one point when the euro's value begins to grow, everyone is aware that Serbia is not the one deciding on the value of the euro and that the risks will be much higher. The loans we're discussing today and the ones we discussed were actually for housing loans. Today, in general, the cost of real estate in the world is rising. The rise in real estate prices in Serbia, in Germany the cost of real estate has increased by 6% in the last two years. The International Monetary Fund said ten days ago, I quote -- that they are impressed by the rise in real estate prices in Kenya, Africa, Europe, Serbia. If the price of real estate is rising all over the world, then you have too much money in circulation. This is a clear indication that after the growth period, the recession period is coming. In recession periods the price of capital should be higher, but it cannot be because it is now at a minimum. 0When someone says they don't know what they're doing, I tell him – see what the finance minister does to you, what the Serbian government does to you, what Aleksandar Vukic suggests, Serbia owes you today. We had a 76% commission. It's 50% today. If you don't know what to do, do what the finance minister does, you do it. Serbia is a powerful economic country in the Balkans, Serbia is a socially responsible country. The two things stem from a law that the Serbian Parliament must vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53525	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53526	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to say a few words about the law, about the addition of the Budgetary System Act. I'll support that law. It's the shortest law we've had to consider in the last three years. I would ask the Minister in charge to pay attention to two things in these two members, as the third member refers to the entry into force. So, in the first member, the minister suggests that, or the government suggests that after words, institutions of student and student standards are added to the stuck and words of pre-school institutions. Anyone who's ever learned the basics of the methodology knows that there's a rating criteria either from the highest to the lowest, or from the lowest to the highest, and what you're proposing is to first specify institutions of student and student standards, and then preschool, turns out that preschool is the highest level if we go from the lowest to the highest, or that the student standard is lower than the student standard. So I suggest that it be different, and I have submitted the amendment and I ask you to adopt it. The second member refers to the law as applying to salaries, starting in May. If it really is such a financial situation and surplus, I don't see any reason why they wouldn't apply to April's wages, because those salaries will otherwise be accounted for and paid in May, so there's no reason to say that it's a retroactive application. Finally, in accordance with the title of this law, I would like to ask the Minister when the National Assembly will receive final accounts of the funds spent for the previous years to consider them, or did you have a chance to see the Council's report on the fight against your government's corruption for 2014, 2015 and 2016? Did you have the opportunity to hear the director of the State Audit, who said in the "Eye magazine" that about two billion euros were spent, about 240 billion dinars or one-sixth of the Republic of Serbia's annual budget. However, he fenced himself a little bit, so he said -- maybe it's not non-intentional, maybe it's something wrong with literature, so the corrections can be corrected, but here's a concrete question -- when is the National Assembly going to get final accounts on spent funds so that we can discuss it and see what it is? If this is so truly rich, I asked two months ago on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Agriculture questions of farmers who did not receive the support from 2017. They did not receive subsidies for two cows or three or five or six cows from 2018, and now escapes April. We're in the other half. It would be good to treat all the beneficiaries of the budget in the same way, and I also know that we were considering the report on the fourth quarter of the funds spent in the agriculture, forestry and water industry sector, and we were able to see that 800 million dinars were not spent in 2018. Do you know what the percentage of the budget is for division 23 or 24, as we show it for agriculture for years? I expect you to answer that question. When it comes to this law on housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, I would ask you to bear in mind the memo we received today from the Transparency of Serbia that this law did not go through the public debate procedure. I don't see why he couldn't pass the public hearing procedure and at least remove that remark, and there was plenty of time. Also, this law places different entities in an unequal position. Here it refers only to the faces of the Swiss francs. And what about the legal people who took out loans in Swiss francs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53527	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53528	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would once again take the opportunity to introduce you all to the results we have achieved over the past few years. So only in the first quarter of this year do we have a surplus in the budget of 15.8 billion dinars compared to the deficit that we planned for 19 billion, so we're almost 35 billion better than we planned, which is the continuation of politics over the last two years, or three years. This is the third year when we have a surplus in the budget and this is the result of responsible economic policy or difficult but wise decisions still taken by President Vukic in 2014. Our public debt is shrinking as a share of GDP. At 78-79, we're now at 50.8. Our unemployment is decreasing, our GDP is growing. Growth of our gross social product in 2018 4.3%. When I've watched and watched the results of other countries in Europe, we're number eight if I'm not mistaken. So the eighth fastest growing economy in Europe last year was our country. So when they come and when these problems happen, like the problems of people who took housing loans in Swiss francs, then you have to react. You react not by taking some expensive loans, so you increase your public debt, so you increase the ambis, as the previous government did, but by saving some money, you have some resources, you are stable, you reduce debt, and you want to help those who need this help not to leave people without a roof over their heads, that family is not falling apart. That's why this law is here today in front of you. The law is a compromise, and I think we all agree that there are a large number of sides that were necessary to consult and coordinate with them in order to achieve a final version of the laws and associations of citizens, i.e. citizens who took housing loans and business banks, ultimately, and states. We have experience in other countries in the region. We wanted to avoid negative experiences and the negative consequences of their decisions and to meet Serbian citizens. That, in my opinion, is a bold decision and our desire to help these people. I want to thank President Vukic for his initiative to find a way to tell people once again, who need our help and who have had this problem finally and solved it for 12-13 years. This law is the final solution to this problem and gives citizens the opportunity, and the obligation for banks to write off part of the debt without straining interest and to offer normal conditions so that citizens can eventually pay off those loans. As far as your comments on the Budget Law are concerned, if I understand correctly, you want it to rank as an adult. It's no problem, we'll consider your amendment, so we'll make a decision on the final accounts, I'll do it again and I'll check it out with the state auditor as long as he's stopped looking at all the final accounts in the last 10 or 15 years. I think as the final account looks at, he puts it on the DRI site, so that material is available if you want to look at it, I just don't know what year it arrived. I'll check with him, and I'll give you the answer to that question. After that, we can also discuss the analysis and the debate on these final accounts. As for the public debate, I think it was your last comment, if I'm not mistaken, you correct me if I missed something and forgot. This problem has been around for many years, and we've heard a lot of solutions. Everyone finds it appropriate to say that they can do this or they can't do it like this, or they can't do it anyway. In the end, someone needs to cut. We put this law before you, before the MPs of the National Assembly, to tell us if we are mistaken and to see if there was or was any other way to make a better compromise. I don't believe it. I've been sitting with both banks and citizens' associations, talking to them. Everyone had their firm views at the beginning, somehow we agreed on how to come up with a law that could solve that problem. We're right here in front of you. I hope that in the debate that awaits us and according to the amendments we will have a constructive debate and that we will pass the best possible law for the state, but too much for the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53529	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53530	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDS parliamentary group will support all legislative proposals on the agenda of this session. My colleague, Professor. Mijatovic spoke of a law that was certainly most interesting and attracted the most attention, which is the Law on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. I'd like to say a few words in this short time that, unfortunately, I have about two laws that have hardly been spoken of today, or there have been very few words, and I think they're worth discussing. First, I would like to commend the law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which corrects one illogicality. The minister is even using a more difficult word, a proper - injustice, as well as a discrepancy of this law with the Preschool Education and Education Act. What's this about? An important legal solution, i.e. the current Budgetary System Act, envisions paying to teachers and all other pre-school staff by 7% compared to December 2018, while, for example, salaries to primary and secondary education employees increase by 9%. Of course, this is not the right solution especially if we take into account something that I believe we will all agree with, which is that for the proper development of children at this age is an important terrible quality of working with them. This quality work with them is done in the first place by teachers, then all others who are employed in the preschool education system. So, I think it's completely justified and I would even say that even this Bill on the Budgetary System that we're talking about today is not contrary to the Preschool Education Act. I think it would be entirely justified that the Budgetary System Act is changed, i.e. to equalise employees' rights in pre-school education with those employed in the primary and secondary education system. I would also like to say a few words about the Guarantee Act, which the Republic of Serbia gives to the company "Serbia". It is a very important loan for the Republic of Serbia, and it is a loan that is an extremely important project for the Republic of Serbia, both for its citizens and for its economy, and I would say in a final instance for the state of Serbia. Just a few years ago, it seems to me that very few people were among the citizens, and I would say among politicians who were optimistic about the gas supply project in Southeast Europe so-called. "South Arm" or "South Corridor", as you will, i.e. I think most people thought the project "South Stream", so to speak, under the quote "dead". Today we are talking about this law, the guarantee that the Republic of Serbia gives and the guarantee that this project is not dead, it is now called "Turkish Stream", but this is an extremely important project for the Republic of Serbia, which should bring great benefits, as I have also told citizens and businesses, but also to the state of Serbia. What's the irony of fate is that this loan taken by "Srbigas" takes exactly for a joint Russian-Serbian company called "South Stream", or in the original "South Stream AG". It is a loan that is very favourable, a 70m-euro loan taken from the three Sosite General banks, Commercial Banks and Vojvodina Banks, a.d. Novi Sad. The credit is with a six-year repayment period with a start of two years, with very favourable interest rates that are variable and vary, as one colleague from the bank to the bank said, from 1.38% to 1.75% plus a three-month eurobor. I think it's very important that I tell our citizens, since no one mentioned it, and I think it's important that the eurobor has been moving around for the past few months around minus 0.3%, that according to the latest information yesterday, its value is minus 0.31%). So we here have a loan that has an interest rate of 1% in the most part. So 60 million we take about 1%, and another 10 million we take for something less than 1.5%. I say, it is a very important project, a project to build a pipeline from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary, with the possibility that it will certainly be used to expand the pipeline towards other neighbouring countries, i.e. to make another leg, i.e. that Serbia becomes a hub in a certain way when it comes to this project. This main route should be 403 kilometers long and the preparatory work has already started and therefore it is fully justified that this law is in the procedure of the Assembly by emergency procedure, because as far as I am aware, they have already submitted requests for construction permits and the process of issuing building permits is under way. I assume Minister Mihajlovic knows more about it than I do. As far as I know, construction permits should be issued within the next few weeks and we'll be able to start doing the work. That's very important, and I'll tell you in a few moments why. Why is this project so important to Serbia? It is important first because it provides a continuous and continuous supply of gas to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, because gas is not only an important energy for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is an energy dependent, directly dependent on, one part of our industry. When we talk about how important gas is as energy for Serbia, I must say that, according to some announcements, already next year, so in 2020, it will stop delivering gas across Ukraine to the countries of southern Europe, and that means that unless we build this pipeline by next year, which is a plan that I believe will be achieved, we would find ourselves potentially in a very serious problem of gas shortages and inability to obtain so much gas, because there are no gas sources that are sufficient to cover what the needs of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing that is very important is that by building this pipeline through Serbia, Serbia becomes a transit country, i.e. Serbia becomes a very important country for the gas supply of the entire region, i.e. the countries of Southeast and Central Europe. Hungary has already said it is interested in taking gas from this pipeline. As far as I know, or as informed as I am, Slovakia is also interested, and certainly some of the neighbouring countries. In that sense, I would like to remind you that "Srbigas" before itself, it seems to me, a month ago, has become the majority shareholder of the company "Gaspromet" with Pala, which we have practically solved, which is very important for us, the problem of our people in Republika Srpska, i.e. the resident of Republika Srpska, who in this way will receive a secure gas supply, but at the same time we have done, I would say, a good business move, because by building this branch of gas pipeline, which would go towards Republika Srpska, quite certainly towards the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. towards the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and potentially towards Croatia, we have the opportunity to achieve revenue from a transit tax, but at the same time we will achieve as through the company "Serbia" and profits through the supply of gas in Republika Srpska. Since I need to leave some time with my colleague, Jelenkovic, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-18-0.u53531	Thank you. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
