ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-0.u58060	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 137 MPs present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. We move to a decision on the proposals for the conclusions set out in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of 17 June 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one with abstentions – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of 17 June 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2018 with the Report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 13 June 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the draft conclusion on the review of the Anti-Corruption Agency's work for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 17 June 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the twenty-fiveth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
