ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58232	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 90 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that the conditions for continuing the work of the National Assembly are met. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic, Milorad Mijatovic and Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on item 1 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings, laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. According to Article 90(1), I hereby inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are today invited to attend the meetings. We have Minister Djordjevic with us today. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic, Sreto Peric, Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic on the bill. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have said that this law should not, should not have been passed, and through our amendments we have expressed the position of the SRS by proposing to delete all these members, including this Article 1, because we are convinced that he to whom the law is intended will not get anything by this law. The deadline for the collection of documents is increasing, the deadline for the final payment is shortened, so all those with orderly documentation can make it easy to realise these claims, but another question is being asked here – how could someone have achieved that right at the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg if they didn't have complete documentation? Whenever something happens, when we confirm some agreements and something that we get orders from abroad, it always turns out it's not in the interest of our country or our people. It's not the first time, of course. But we can't talk about this law without somehow returning to the ugly history of Serbia that began in 2000 with that bulldozer revolution and then actually began to sunroof Serbia and participate in every sense of that word. The main bearers of the destruction of Serbia from that time were Dinkic, Labus, Vlahovic and Djelic. There were others, but we're apostropheing these because it's very interesting that today they're respected members of society on important functions, that their head hair is not missing, and that when we talk about that time as major criminals, we mark them as the main culprits for criminal privatisations. But today we have a situation that Dinkic, for example, who brought Bin Zajed to Serbia with a full bag of various promises, of which we all know how many are not fulfilled. Vlahovic is someone, let's remind ourselves, Vlahovic came to the Assembly on October 5th in an old house from the old parents' house from Sopota. The prime minister's mandate ended up as one of the richest people in Serbia, and that's something absolutely familiar, but then the question arises -- how can this such Vlahovic, for example, be able to teach the highest officials of the state, and this regime, and those previous ones, can lecture on how the state can develop, how the economy can develop, and how do you like to say, to Serbian Davos, and that's just an extended weekend for a nice time in Kopalnik? Or, the other day, the day before, when the president of France was in Serbia, in the first place with top state officials, Bozidar Djelic waited for him. They say he's the advisor to that company that bought the airport, and, God forbid, some say he's co-owner. Then the question really arises – what is actually done in the state of Serbia to reduce corruption, and that zero tolerance, of course, is that there is no speech? Sometimes when MPs talk to empty benches, I wonder if it makes sense to talk to empty benches, but then again when things happen like that, then it seems to me that and how it makes sense, because it's not really talking to empty benches, it's sitting in those benches. Yesterday, the crowd broke out, last night on social networks, today and last night in the anti-state media, I say anti-Serbian, to the question that Vojislav Seselj raised here regarding the fact that a journalist, Congradin, apparently, is called, published in "Today" that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. Yesterday, Vojislav Seselj asked for it, and we repeat it now, we launched it two months ago, that the Criminal Code should be changed urgently, and that anyone who says such a thing must be held accountable. It is a very dangerous thesis, which is growing above our heads, which more and more say as a future requirement, comes from that EU, that we will have to admit that in order to continue that path, which we will never reach. Besides, that's what McCron said, confirmed two days ago, what he said several days ago actually. Then these from these empty benches of trees and stones fell upon Seselj. I can understand, we can understand that someone doesn't like Seselj, that someone doesn't like radicals, that someone doesn't like power, but that someone who was accidentally born as a Serb doesn't love their people so much, it's just amazing. They are one mass, one mob, which so openly, past these benches runs anti-state and anti-Serbian politics. Of course, they've made some moves that have been criminal acts, and that's how they should be dealt with, conditionally spoken of, but it's missed, and now they can behave any way they can by heart. Interestingly, none of them then, yesterday, nor last night, ever resented anyone who said there was genocide in Srebrenica and resented anyone who had any objections to it. It's such a substitute for thesis, I repeat, very dangerous for the country. Not all of them are stupid, not all of them are Marija Janjušević's unit of measurement, but that is reason more to make sure that this is done absolutely against the state. They managed to, you know, convince a number of people who were using information from their media that it was really anyone who wasn't against the current government, to support that power, which is absolutely not true, because they're actually doing it on purpose to identify the state and government. Then, if someone says that Srebrenica was a genocide, then they think that someone said something bad about the current government, about Vojislav Seselj, about Slobodan Milosevic, so far they go just to distract from the fact that they are actually doing certain tasks here, that there are no other expressions, traitors of their own people and the interests of their own state. I really expect from all my colleagues, not to stand up for Vojislav Seselj, he should not, but rather stand up for the defense of truth and justice, to stand up for the interests of the state of Serbia and the majority Serb people in the state of Serbia. I call upon you all to indeed, you have this power, to intervene through the competent authorities, Minister Djordjevic, to raise the issue of amending the Criminal Code in the Serbian government and to most urgently mark the manifestation that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. People, we must act, when I say, I mean the patriotic forces in Serbia, we must act before it is too late and before it comes as an official request to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58234	Thank you, colleague Radeta. There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58235	From the time of the parliamentary group, the chairman. First, to remind all fellow MPs that several times the former regime's MPs were transferred to the SNS, the SPS, and even the SRS as they returned the old foreign currency savings. As we can see, if that were true, today we would not be discussing this law and they were never openly honest to say that they were returning the old foreign currency savings. The old foreign savings were returned by broadcasting government bonds with different maturity periods, it seems to me ten and more years. Now, when the state broadcasts that bond based on old foreign exchange savings, and you see what mathematics they remembered at the time to get big money for the privatisation that was coming in the Republic of Serbia, it is owned by the Republic of Serbia and is the owner of a natural person on whom the state bond stands. Then the former regime, led by Labus among other things, Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Zivkovic and Mirko Cvetkovic allowed these government bonds to be the subject of stock exchanges. But not in the right way, because then Serbia did not have a developed financial market and trade in securities of value, but various mechanics called on citizens who possess bonds to return old foreign exchange savings, to sell these same government bonds to them, but at significantly reduced value. That went up to 60% or should I say, let's translate for some colleagues from the former regime who know less that they're counting, so if a country is to pay at some time 1,000 marks, it will for its bonds, if it sells them to Miroslav Miskovic, Kolet and the rest of the team, to collect only 400 marks. Now, to make sin and crime even bigger, these same government bonds could be used in privatising social enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, but not in terms of how they bought them from citizens, but at the nominal amount that was on bonds. So some gentlemen bought 20 times cheaper than it really cost, and then they saved up the bonds at that 20 times the reduced value of another 60% and bought out the Serbian economy. The payment of the old foreign savings was largely a fraud between DOS parties and the former regime to make it as cheap as possible to reach the economy of the Republic of Serbia and that is the real truth about the return of the old foreign currency savings. So, after years of wars, sanctions, the loss of hope that a citizen can charge anything from an old foreign exchange savings, he was offered to charge his claim at 40% immediately, and all 100% is due, whether five, ten or more years, used to buy out social property in the Republic of Serbia. Now we're going back to that famous three-euro sugar shop in 2002, 2003, and now imagine three euros per sugar canteen, nine for three. They weren't exactly proud enough to pay one euro for one sugar cane, but three euros per sugar bar and three sugars times three euros -- nine euros. Now imagine what it was like to buy the nine euros for three and a half euros. Imagine how much money was drawn from the citizens and from the economy and how much expensive and valuable property came about. I am really sorry that there was no agreement at that time that we will discuss tomorrow in particular, because I am sure that as a state they would have the exact data for which they sold social property that was acquired for years, how much the price difference they made, how much tax they should pay to the Republic of Serbia for capital gains. So now we're coming up with something that I and my colleague Radet can't say I don't agree, but as a lawyer understands that no matter how bad the law is, it has to be implemented. And it is not true that the laws in DOS governments were written by ministers, only formally these laws were passed through the ministry and government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those laws were written by tycoons. They made a legal framework for a big robbery in Serbia and robbed and kidnapped whatever they thought of and the way they thought of it. So, they robbed by bringing the value of the property to nothing, that some company was cheaper, multiple times cheaper than it had on its current account, or at that time the gyro-account. Then, when the state authorities begin at least what they can implement, the hack of all former regime members of the police minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, why the origin of Dragan Djilas's 500m-euro assets is being examined. How many of those government bonds were there, or maybe they were too late, or you remember that famous story and the affair about the Cypriot money. There ended a good part of the old foreign savings, a good part. There were commissions, Velja Ilic was also leaving, Mladjan Dinkic was leaving, there was a whole set of furniture, Bozidar Djelic, the Duke of "Meridjan Banka". Every time I presented in the National Assembly, I asked what they found from the money in Cyprus that has citizens of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I received an amazing answer that they managed to find only 600m marks in Cyprus, belonging to a Serbian citizen, did not name which Serbian citizen, but that money was not from old foreign savings and money that was being made by the state in Cyprus. Now just let someone, who could make 600m euros from Serbia during sanctions, bombings, everything we've experienced, fail at privatisation, and that was fair and legal? I am truly sorry that this agreement that we are about to ratify was not in force then, because many of the questions would be answered, who took the money, where the money was located, who sold out Serbian state property, who left workers without a job and how much of it he paid to the Republic of Serbia on behalf of all those social programs that the state took over for every person who lost his job. It seems to me that nothing was paid out of taxes, because in order to make social peace and pay off those obligations, we raised our loans. Now, there's always one story about the success of the former regime, it's the write-off of the debt to Paris and the London Club of Trustees. I can say there's also a very big scam. It's not literally written off, not a dime of debt. Only the interest on charge has been written off, while the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been sanctioned by the international community and later on under sanctions from the European Union and the Western countries, etc. It was written off, and they didn't do us a favor then, because the significant funds on which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was entitled were deposited with banks that were founded by those two clubs, which we had no right to charge interest. Well, that's the truth about both old foreign savings and debt write-offs. One more thing to remind you, since they say they paid for it all, I have to say it's not true. And today, the Republic of Serbia is paying off those commitments, but not the money they earned, but the money earned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the conditions for making that money were made by the prime minister, and now the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58236	Since the system is full, I have to ask first. My colleague Radeta, the basis of your report is replica. Has anyone else answered? My colleague Martinović, here you are, first of all a replica, then a colleague of Radeta Replica. (Alexander Martinovic: I am reporting by amendment. We must only take advantage of the replica to give, I'm sorry, after Radeta's colleague answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58237	What Mr. Arsic said is more or less true and it is not likely that anyone well-intentioned in Serbia is disputed. But what we keep asking is how it's possible that we all know that as an opposition we know and we've been saying it for years, but obviously the government knows it, that there were robbery privatisations, that half a million people were driven out into the street, that hotels and malls were built in places of the former factories, that these locations were the reason for the purchases that were burzars, which weren't done even under that Privatisation Act, as we all know, that everyone who bought those factories had committed themselves to not changing their purpose for two years, just two years, and those two years didn't do anything, and after two years people pushed them out into the street, they started to build their business completely different from what they were doing. We all know and here, we heard that there was Djelic, Vlahović, Dinkic, Labus, but we don't know how it's possible that these people are at large or at least, again as a lawyer, respecting the presentation of innocence, we might be at large and if criminal proceedings were conducted against them, but how is it possible not to be led? Don't just say-- we do everything, no courts, no prosecutors. They will, and the courts and the prosecution, if there is political will. I don't think it should affect, not the courts, not the prosecution, not any political pressure, especially the pressure of the executive, but there's public pressure, conditional pressure. It's impossible for all of us to know who the thieves of that former regime are and that they are today representatives of Etyhad, of those who bought the airport, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58238	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. By amendment. Here's a colleague of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58239	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Radeta's colleague has opened several important topics and I think it's time for us to discuss these topics today. First, Mrs Radeta and not only her, but also some other SRS MPs say none of the representatives of the regime that ruled Serbia until 2000 have been processed. That's just not true. You know, it's a very good thing that judicial verdicts have been handed down, and it's also judgmental for Miroslav Miskovic, and for Marko Miskovic, and for Milo Djuraskovic. Also, criminal proceedings are being conducted against at least six ministers from various governments, which were formed in Serbia until 2000. That's where I think of Predrag Bubal, that's where I think of Sasa Dragin, that's where I think of Slobodan Milosavljevic and others. Also, two criminal proceedings are being conducted as far as I know, against at least two ministerial assistants who were in those positions, i.e. those functions by 2012. So it is not true that the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing nothing when it comes to the processing of those responsible for the failure of the Serbian economy and Serbian agriculture between 2000 and 2012. Anything you say more on this subject could be interpreted as a kind of pressure on the judiciary and that's why I'm gonna stop here. I just want to say that the justice system of the Republic of Serbia has also been involved. We can be more or less satisfied with the way it got involved, but that the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia has been involved in the processing of those responsible for the robbery, for poor privatisation, for embezzlement of state money and for various other abuses, I think it's one fact that we'll all agree on. What is much more important, for the citizens of Serbia, than whether an individual is being led or not by a criminal or otherwise, is something else. The Serbian Progressive Party is leading a completely different policy than those ruled by Serbia by 2012. You mentioned Labus, Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, you said who is now where, in which position, someone is in a bank, someone was seen visiting the president of France, Makron, etc. But what you don't need to lose sight of, and I think the citizens of Serbia know very well, we run a completely different policy from Dinkic and Labus and Bozidar Djelic's politics. Their policy was to destroy Serbia's economy, destroy Serbian finances, and our policy is to strengthen domestic economy and consolidate public finances. We did it on one plan and another. We revived the economy to a good extent, it is said by very clear macroeconomic indicators, GDP growth is one of the largest in Europe. Representatives of the former regime, in 2009, claimed that the global economic crisis would have a positive effect on the Serbian economy and that it was a chance for the Serbian economy, and then we had a negative GDP growth rate of 3.1%. We today have a GDP growth of 4.5% with a trend of further growth. The third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget. We did it. In a relatively short time, out of only three or four years to fully consolidate our reporting funding system, we today can subscribe without taking credit to finance many important projects for citizens of Serbia, which by 2012, we were unable to realise. In this regard, it is important for citizens that we have made a complete political deviation from that policy that was led in Serbia until 2012. Whoever is located among these individuals, I think it is less important for the citizens of Serbia. You said that we, SNS MPs, like to talk to empty benches. It's a subject that also deserves a special consideration. Whether one part of the opposition is going to boycott the work of the Assembly or not, that's their business. As far as I'm concerned, I would never ask them to come or come to the National Assembly. I think it is the basic order, if they want to discuss important social and political issues to come to the National Assembly, because the street is not the place to talk, because it is discussed in a civilized and reasoned way, the conversation does not mean the use of motor saws, the conversation does not mean the use of trucks that you block the presidency, baggers, firearms, long pipes that Jovo Bakic threatened us with, and so on. So the conversation involves a civilized exchange of arguments here in the National Assembly. Thank you for understanding these basic business parliamentary democracies and we with you, as you can see, we can also talk very culturally and civilizedly about topics that we disagree on, and as for those who boycott the National Assembly sessions, that's their business. And we don't talk to empty benches. All SNS deputies and all MPs of the ruling coalition speaking to Serbian citizens because it is our job. Our job is to work in the National Assembly and it is our job to explain to the citizens of Serbia the causes of the economic and financial crisis that has hit Serbia and which is 2012. In 2013, she threatened to go bankrupt, who is responsible, and we are obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia what measures we have taken to curb this economic and financial crisis and, of course, to point to all the positive results that have taken place as a result of the conduct of such a policy. Those who boycotted and boycotted today's National Assembly session claimed for months that the amendments, these famous amendments that were being debated in the public of SNS MPs, were reportedly pointless. I also argue today that these amendments were not pointless, because the amendments that we had submitted had the post to indicate all the positive results that were achieved by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of Serbia and, of course, we, the SNS MPs and other parties who were with us in the coalition, who supported that policy. In that sense, I don't think these amendments were pointless, which I'm saying today, maybe someone has a different opinion. Our task is to address the citizens of Serbia. Whether they come to meetings of the National Assembly or not, that's their right. After all, it is their policy that I do not want to interfere with, but what the citizens of Serbia should also know, all those who are not here today, not today, but in the past few months, every month, Mrs Radeta, same as you who are sitting in the National Assembly, receive a salary, receive a parliamentary allowance, so to speak. paushal, they travel abroad for the cost of the National Assembly, so that their boycott is partial. So it's a partial boycott. They don't boycott pay, they don't boycott receipts, they don't boycott travel abroad. In one part, they do not even boycott the work of the congregation committees, to be fair. They're boycotting, apparently, plenary sessions, but that's their thing. We, SNS MPs, as you could see, are not the problem for us, sitting in the National Assembly and working every day because we have an obligation to citizens, not for them who boycott, but for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not talking to empty benches, we are talking through these sessions and in some way indirectly to the citizens of our country who have the right to know what policy has led to the almost economic and financial breakdown of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 and 2013, which measures we have taken, why we have taken them, who is the most responsible that today the Republic of Serbia is one of the most economically successful countries in Europe. We have no problem saying that this is Alexander Vukic, because we have the greatest political courage to take very difficult political moves that were extremely unpopular in 2014 and 2015, but the people understood well that these moves, although unpopular, were necessary to recover our economy and to recover our public finances. In that sense, all of what we are doing, both now and in recent weeks and months, is not talking to empty benches, it is talking to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You were talking about a subject that is very important to you, which is that SNS and Alexander Vukic are receiving orders from abroad. It is true that very often the Republic of Serbia, and this is not the first time in our history, is in a situation where at times it is supplied with a certain requirement that policy should be guided on certain issues. They asked the Republic of Serbia to comply with EU security and foreign policy by imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation. That's not what we agreed to. You know we have faced pressures to deliver to The Hague tribunal Vojislav Seselj. That's not what we agreed to. You know we've been exposed to pressures to deliver several of his closest associates, including you. That's not what we agreed to. So, I don't accept that thesis that we're acting on orders from abroad. I do not question that the orders are coming, the EU is much more powerful than the Republic of Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia is a sovereign and independent state that does not act by any order or order coming from the EU. What is also important for Serbian citizens to know and we have talked about it several times, we are different from the parties of the former DOS. You could never hear from Alexander Vukic, nor any Serbian government minister, nor any SNS MP or any member of the ruling coalition that we talked about some dates when Serbia would join the EU. The famous 2025, as a year of possible EU entry, is not the year that the Republic of Serbia has demonstrated. The year was mentioned by EU officials as the year of Serbia's possible entry into the EU. Alexander Vukic, unlike Bozidar Djelic, and Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, etc. He has never bid on dates when Serbia will join the EU. After all, if we are going to join the EU at all, it is not only up to the Republic of Serbia, it depends on the situation in the EU, but what is much more important than the year we enter the EU is that we in our legal, political, economic system, we implement all the good standards that apply to the EU in our agricultural production system. So now it's not about formal EU membership, it's about standards. We believe that our judiciary should look like a judiciary in the EU. We believe that a Serbian farmer should operate the same way his colleagues in France, the Netherlands, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, etc. do. We believe that we must have those standards in protecting the environment as they apply in the EU. So our policy is to bring our standards into line from different areas of social life to standards in the EU. This is likely to lead to Serbia's entry into the EU, and what year, I don't know, and ultimately, it doesn't matter, but it is important that we are on a European path because, regardless of all the objections we can make to the EU, the EU is still in the whole world a society in which a good share of people would like to live. So those outside the EU would also like to live as citizens living in the EU. That is why it is important that we are on the European path. It is important that we are on the European road for the reasons my colleague Marijan Risticevic spoke of yesterday, which are the percentages of our exports, almost 70%. A little over 66%, to be exact, our exports are heading towards EU countries. Somewhere around 27% of the waste on countries that are included in so-called. CEFTA Agreement. The rest is represented by the Russian Federation, China and other countries in the world. So, they wanted us not to, we have to be on the European path because we are sent, first of all, for economic, commercial reasons to co-operate with the countries in the EU, such as the fact that the largest number of investments in the last few years come from countries that are members of the EU, and these companies that are opening in the Republic of Serbia are not foreign companies and I want to stress it by who knows which way. These are companies established in the Republic of Serbia under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. They are registered in the APR as business entities whose founders are domestic natural and legal persons and pay taxes and contributions in the same way as companies whose founders are domestic natural and legal persons. In this sense, there is no difference, and that was also said yesterday by the minister, in our legislation between investments that are purely domestic and foreign investment. The capital can be domestic and foreign, but when foreign capital comes to the Republic of Serbia, it is subject to the legal regime of the Republic of Serbia. So, the German investor in Serbia does not operate under German law, but in Serbian. A French investor when he opens his company here, she operates in the Serbian legal system, not in France. You were talking about a visit to Macron. That's why our two parliamentary groups disagree. You think McCron shouldn't have come to the Republic of Serbia, and we think he did. There are numerous links between Serbia and France. In the past, these relationships were stronger, deeper. These relationships were so strong that they were not only at the domain of diplomacy, politics and economy, but also at the level of classical human emotions. I'm talking, first of all, about World War I. You said - Makron advocates independent Kosovo. It's the official policy of France before Macron. Macron didn't invent that policy. McCron continues one policy that someone else started. Are we in a situation not to talk to representatives of states that have recognised Kosovo's independence? Stop all possible relationships with them? We didn't. There are topics that are painful for us. It is painful for all of us when Makron says Kosovo and Serbia are two countries. This is painful for us, but on the other hand, do not forget the fact that more than 12,000 Serbian citizens work in companies whose investors came from France. It's an important fact. Don't forget another important thing. You can think of Macron whatever you want, I can think of whatever I want, but the fact is that although this man had and had a completely different view of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija than the official politics of the Republic of Serbia and had the courage to address citizens of Serbia directly in the presence of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. If nothing else, he showed one personal and political courage and showed in my opinion that he respected the citizens of Serbia, despite the fact that there were some things in his speech that were, as I said, objectively painful. But when we talk about France, don't forget to put Macron aside now, don't forget the famous French intelligence officer Binel, who, in 1999, told our general a list of potential targets in the bombing of the NATO Pact in 1999. We didn't get that information from either the Russians, or the Chinese, or the Greeks, or any of the others who are now more friends than France, but we got this information from a French intelligence officer who was directly in the command of the NATO Pact in Mons, who had access to classified documents and who is our general, I'm not going to mention his name now, you know who it is, announced the list of NATO Pact targets that NATO pact planes were targeting in the 1999 aggression. This man was convicted and eventually lost his service in the French army. Speaking of France, can we forget about De Gaulle? Some of my colleagues today won't agree with me for ideological reasons, and I respect them. It's July 17th. On July 17th 1946, General Draža Mihajlovic was shot. On February 2nd 1943, Draž Mihajlovic De Gol decorated the highest French war medal, a war cross with pounds of twigs for his army's contribution to the fight against the axle forces. So, when we talk about France, let go of some personal questions whether or not you like Makron, we view France as one country that is important in the EU, as a country that has been extremely friendly to us especially in the First and Second World War, which in the 1990s has not been in favor of us, but we are also trying to do so by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, not only when it comes to France, but also when it comes to Germany, which we also have painful experiences with. So we're trying to make France one partner, both political and economic, and as you can see, military-security, because this position of military neutrality has allowed us not only to acquire the most modern military equipment from Russia, Belarus, China, etc., from countries that are openly friendly to us. Here, we have now opened military-technical co-operation with France, with a country that participated in the bombing of the SRJ in 1999. It is one of the successful foreign and security policies promoted by Aleksandar Vukic. You do, therefore, and I'm going to end this thing around McCron that his visit didn't make sense. We think it made sense, too. We did not agree on all the issues, but I think we have opened some important topics and we are on our way to creating a reliable and solid partner from France in the EU, which we are not going to agree on, but which will also help us in the sphere of the economy, in the sphere of finance, and as you can see in some other spheres that were completely unimaginable for Serbia by yesterday. Serbia's gain, to conclude with the French military-technical agreement, was unimaginable until yesterday. Now it's premiseable because we run one responsible and foreign and security policy. I would like to address this at the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I know that Zoran Djordjevic is not the finance minister, but I think the associates sitting next to him are, I don't see right now in my colleague Lint's room, it's a life problem, I just want to point out this problem to you, please transfer this problem to the finance minister, Sinishi Maloma, he is important to a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The following is the case, in the Republic of Serbia you have a number of citizens who have come to Serbia by force from Croatia, i.e. from the territory of the former Republika Srpska Krajina, who have been expelled from their centuries-old hearths and who for certain personal reasons cannot take and cannot get a personal map in Serbia because they have a personal map in Croatia and a registered residence in Croatia to exercise some of their rights there. You know for a fact that Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia in that country have many of their rights or cannot achieve or accomplish at all with much trouble and much difficulty. I want to point out one problem to you, which is that I have also heard from Linti, probably some other colleagues, a good number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have our citizenship, but have not taken our ID card, who have a problem that the authorities do not want to overwrite their purchase contracts when it comes to apartments and houses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because they do not own the personal map of the Republic of Serbia, but still possess refugee legislation. I'm telling you this because I think the Ministry of Finance should be hearing about these citizens. They are not someone who does not want to get an ID card from the Republic of Serbia, I think these people would be the proudest to have a personal map of the Republic of Serbia, they are simply not in a situation and they do not want to have a personal map of the Republic of Serbia at this time because they would lose many of the rights still sought in the Republic of Croatia, so please, for example, by means of an official opinion or otherwise, try to facilitate the position of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have been expelled from Croatia and from the territory of the former Krajina. It is also the fourth of August when we will remember with grief those people who had to leave their centuries-old hearths. So, please tell the Minister of Finance there's a problem. I think there's even a way to solve this problem if there's a little goodwill on the side of the country. After all, we can see ourselves a little bit in Croatia, they went to the maximum meeting of the citizens of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the current citizens of Croatia who came from Serbia in that real estate exchange that took place in 1991-1992 and Croatian citizens living in what they call diaspora, etc., emigration. So, if we have a little more hearing about that part of our population, these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these are honest and honest people who think well of this country. The pain has made them leave their centuries-old hearths, and they have one big life problem, so I simply urge you to show good will to solve this problem. As far as our colleagues from the SRS are concerned, here we are, today, truly, going to show a good will to talk about all the issues that are related to both this law and some other topics that are important and to show that, although we do not agree on much, we can lead a civilized and cultural debate, not because of these empty benches, as Mrs Radeta said, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58240	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. In order not to make it clear, Mr. Martinovic spoke according to the amendment. There is a time as president of the parliamentary group for 15 minutes and, of course, the time that belongs to the parliamentary group. Of course, you announced it at the beginning of your presentation. You have the right to a replica, colleague Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58241	What a handicap for 30 minutes to answer in two, but I'll try what's most important. It is true that some ministers and some ministerial assistants have been prosecuted from the former government, but you will agree that these are an ongoing "ženj" category of ministers in every sense and in business that has also worked on thieving, etc. We ask persistently - when will the capitalists answer? When will Dinkic, Labus, Vlahovic, Djelic answer? We ask – what if the 11m euros Djelic stole from Serbia through Meridian Bank if he invested them via Vinci Airports in buying our airport? No one's taking care of that. You say you understand that we are MPs who know the basics of democracy and that's why we're sitting here. No, we're a party to extremely democratic principles and you know it well. After all, as a young doctor of science, the president of our party has been imprisoned and prepared to sacrifice his life for democratic principles and we cannot behave differently. You say you're not talking to benches, you're talking to citizens. We're also talking to citizens. We've cleared it up with benches, and we'll obviously address them more than once today. We never said that McCron should, and he shouldn't come. We have said that we are appalled that at least he is not asked not to say in front of so many peoples, who welcomed him, that Kosovo is an independent state. And you should know that, say, in France half, and you know that, half of the inhabitants of France about the EU share the views of the SRS that we represent here. As for the fact that Vucic never said, nor did anyone mention the year of entry into the EU, he mentioned in 2025 on 19 November 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58242	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58243	I'm still standing behind what I said. So Aleksandar Vukic mentioned 2025, but as a year of possible EU entry, they began to mention EU officials first. You've never heard of Alexander Vukic - we enter the EU safely in 2025, and if we don't enter 2025, the world will come to an end. At that age, he bid one other president of the Republic – Boris Tadic. He claimed in the campaign, you remember, and it was one of his main arguments against then-contested rival Boris Tadic, Tomislav Nikolic, that Serbia would join the EU in 2007. Well, in the 2008 campaign, he claimed that Serbia would enter 2012. We don't act that way. We say - we are on a European path, we want to meet all the standards that apply in the EU, not because of the EU and not because of the Brussels administration, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve a better and more effective judicial system. Our farmers deserve to benefit more from their work, such as French, Dutch, or German farmers. We are in favour of having arranged finances, as they are arranged in EU countries, and whether we will enter the EU and what years, it depends partly on Serbia, and I think it depends mostly on the EU itself. But we haven't burdened ourselves in years. We have focused on meeting the standards, because we think that meeting these standards is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for McCron, let's be completely open, so that Kosovo is an independent state, so some MPs who are not here in the O.R. right now tell you. So why do we always expect someone else to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia more when you have MPs who are currently not here in the hall, who claim that Kosovo is an independent state and that the problem of Kosovo can only be solved by Serbia recognising Kosovo's independence? I don't see why we should blame Macron for that. (President: Bringing the end. Here's another sentence. Mrs. Radeta said the small fish were caught. In their day, these people weren't even tiny fish. Do not tell me that Miroslav Miskovic is a small fish, that his son Marko is a small fish, that Milo Đurašković is a small fish, that Oliver Dulic was a small fish in his day, that Sasa Dragin was a small fish, that Slobodan Milosavljevic was a small fish. These were, in fact, metaphorically speaking, large fish that were very important in their time, but unfortunately Serbian citizens, harmful decisions and which are now being processed, some law-abiding, and some are being prosecuted. In that sense, I don't think you're right about the Republic of Serbia using judicial authorities, so to speak, counting only on small fish. We fight crime and corruption, the best we know and know. And as for the work of the judicial authorities, it's up to them to do their job. What is important for Serbian citizens is that Alexander Vukic's policy is completely, completely different from that of the policy that was led in Serbia until 2012. And that is why we record the results successfully both politically and financially, and as you can see, on a military-security plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58244	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58245	Very short. And I have no intention of even telling you to plead immediately. Just please, on the basis of Article 32. The parliamentary group has much more time and when they exceed the time of two minutes, when it comes to the amendment, that time is taken from the parliamentary group and they can afford that luxury. We do not want to use the replicas of the parliamentary group because all MPs will talk about the amendment. And the most beautiful please, and also you, colleagues, with whom I will replicate, respect the time of two minutes. We're ready to replicate 30 laps, 50 laps, but let's be fair, let's be on both sides for two minutes. Thank you. And now I'm asking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58246	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58247	Let's first clear this up about whether Vukic said when we're going to join the EU. Yes, he was, as he said, besieged by Junker's statement and said he thought it was possible that it would be in 2025, but that he, as an optimist, who is otherwise pessimist, believed it could be in 2023. You, too, please say - it doesn't matter, it's a new mantra now, it doesn't matter if we join the EU, when you realize we won't, but that you want us to get to European standards, etc. It's just, we'd very much like you to get to the border when you say you won't respect their standard that Kosovo was a state and that there was genocide in Srebrenica. You can go as far as you can, but I don't believe you will. But here's our duty to warn you at any moment. You say – Miskovic was not a small fish. No, but Miskovic without Tadic, that's impossible. It is clear to you that Miskovic's primary crime is corruption, corruption directly involved with Vlahovic and Tadic, I guess everyone knows that. So without that combination, there's none of it, and again we remind you of the existence of Zagorka Dolovac, who exists only on paper, who doesn't do his job, you have to accept it. Besides, we used to share an opinion on Zagorka Dolovac, and she hasn't changed better to change your mind. So we have nothing, I repeat again, against you chasing some standards that would be in the interest of Serbian citizens. We don't see that too much of an exaggeration when it comes to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58248	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58249	Since you have already mentioned the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, then you have surely heard from him countless times that he said that Serbia, while he is the President of the Republic and while the SNS is in power, will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence and we will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. So, that's the fear I want to take out of you and that nail. One more thing I want to tell you, this was said yesterday by your esteemed colleague, Alexander Seselj, and not only yesterday, the EU did not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, some EU member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but we insist that five EU member states have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Therefore, you cannot "ham the bloc" say the EU has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The European Union is not a state in itself. It's one community of states. It is a painful fact for all of us that most EU member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but on the other hand, what is encouraging is that five EU member states have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence and that the number of states that withdraw their recognition of Kosovo and Metohija is increasing year by year. You need to take care of one more thing. Do not mechanically divide things into whether someone has confessed or not to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It is the main waterhouse, but there is one other thing that is important, you have many countries that have recognised the formal independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but which were our allies that Kosovo should not enter, as an independent state, not in UNESCO, nor in Interpol, nor in any other international organisations, and have recognised the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Let's not make enemies out of these countries. We do not agree with them on the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, but the fact is that these countries have turned out to be fair and correct towards the Republic of Serbia, because without their behaviour in both Interpol and UNESCO and other international organisations, Serbia would not be able to prevent Kosovo from joining these important international institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58250	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58251	We spoke here to the President of the Republic when it was the topic of Kosovo and Metohija, we expressed our precise views and demands against which he had nothing, at least that's what he said then, and we understood that he would not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence as an independent state, and we still hope so, but we simply can't miss an opportunity without distracting it, because simply no one can ever do it. The EU's stance on Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Martinovic, we know what the EU is, and when we say the EU, we know that there are countries that have not recognised it, but the EU's position and most countries is precisely that Kosovo is an independent state. It is, individually, each of these states has brought it to its own level, but that is also the position of their parliament. We hope that this will change in Parliament in this European way, and we hope that some countries will still withdraw their decisions on the declaration of independence, let's say, France when it wins Marie Le Pen, Italy when it beats Salvini, but it's not far from reality or time at all. So, of course, we expect it to happen. You also said, perhaps in that previous report, that we also have MPs in Serbia who are currently not sitting here, who say Kosovo is independent, who say that genocide happened in Srebrenica. Unfortunately, that is so, but for the sake of the public, because of future elections, because of voters, we also mention it and that we are talking about it, that never again such ones come to the assembly benches, MPs, that we draw attention to the people that they should not vote for those who say that Kosovo is an independent state and that there was genocide in Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58252	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58253	Thank you. I'll say it one more time. So, the EU has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence because the EU, as a community of states, cannot do so. Therefore, there is no act of any EU body, nor of the European Parliament, nor of the European Commission, nor of the European Council that recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Some EU member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It is a fact, but the EU has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija as a community of states. After all, the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are not an independent state for the EU is also a matter of a dialogue that has been temporarily stopped because of these crazy taxis introduced by Haradinaj and Thaci on goods coming into the territory of Kosovo and Metohija from central Serbia. The dialogue is conducted just under the auspices of the EU. Is that right? What would the EU be sponsoring such a dialogue if it had an independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. Then we have nothing to talk about. Then why are we going to Brussels if for Brussels Kosovo is an independent state? Obviously not. So there is a dialogue on resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues. It is not currently being conducted, I repeat again, because of the taxis introduced from Pristina, but the fact that a certain dialogue was being conducted and probably in some foreseeable future this dialogue will continue, but the very fact that dialogue is being conducted and the very fact that the dialogue is being conducted with the EU's intervention is clearly telling you that the EU, as a community of states, has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We still have, not much, but we have a certain maneuvering space within the EU itself to fight for the best possible solution, when it comes to Serbia and the Serbian people, for Kosovo and Metohija. You mentioned recently held parliamentary elections in the EU, i.e. elections for the European Parliament. An important function in Europe, or the EU, has been visited by a Spanish, is an ethnic Catalan, but it is not a separatist... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... It's very important. Spain is one of the most powerful countries in the EU, you will admit. Spain has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and the Spanish has now become an important official in the EU body system. So we still have the manoeuvre to fight for Kosovo and Metohija and within the EU system institutions. It's a hard fight. It's a fight between David and Goliath. It is a struggle that is, after all, somewhat uncertain, but is not a lost battle for Kosovo and Metohija until the end, even when it comes to the EU. Don't forget Hungary has recognised the independence of KIM, in its time. The fact is that now with Hungary, we are never better and political, and economic, and financial relations. Here on Monday, Serbian citizens should know, so I will finish, on Monday, Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic and president of the Republic of Hungary, will open a monument of Sibinjin Janko in Zemun, which is what the Serbs call me, is Janko Sibininin, the one from that folk song – late Janko arrives in Kosovo, etc. Janjoš Hunjad, right. So we are building a monument for a man who is important for Serbia, and it is important for Hungarians as well. It's important for Hungarians because he was a Hungarian national hero. But don't forget, this Janko or Janos has arrived at KIM, yet he has arrived in Serbia. If I'm not mistaken in 1448, here in Serbia, then protecting the Serbs themselves fought against the Turks. So history is never black and white. No history, no political present.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58254	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58255	I wouldn't waste my time here on theory and history. I don't mind, but Mr. Martinovic, you have the opportunity to schedule us for a round table at RTS, I'd be happy to do that. Here we would talk about some concrete things related to the work of parliament, to the EU, to KIM. The truth is that, let's say, the European Parliament's Committee asked Serbia to recognise the actual situation at KIM. What's that? It's just that he's following that policy. Let's go a little differently. Now, let's say that you are engaged in returning the problem of solving KIM, moving from the EU to the UN Security Council level, including Russia as our protector, including China, including countries that are friendly to help us preserve our sovereignty and territorial integrity. In the EU, we cannot do this, as much as there are friendly countries and in the EU that would not allow it, but are simply a minority. Come on, get on with it so we can correct the mistakes of Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. It wasn't a mistake, it was a deliberate move that made the truth that it was much harder to solve the question of KIM now than it was before. So there are some things that are of interest to every normal man in Serbia and every patriot in the state of Serbia, when it comes to such things, when you need the help of the SRS in that sense, you will always have it, it is not disputed. Don't make us, excuse the expressions, because you have a lot more time, so now you're telling some fairy tales to cloud the essence. The bottom line is that most EU countries insist that we recognise that Kosovo is an independent state. We're telling you don't do it. We still believe you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58256	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58257	Here, I'll try to, of course, doubt that I'll reassure my colleague Radetta when it comes to her attitudes, but another point in favor of our thesis. No EU member states have ratified the so-called so-called "no" by letter and by no means, so that zero EU Member States have ratified the so-called "no". The SSP with the so-called so-called SSP. the Republic of Kosovo. That's also one fact you have to consider. Although you look at the content, so if you look at the text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that the EU has concluded with the Republic of Serbia and the text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that has been concluded with Pristina, you will see that these are two completely different texts, with no EU member state and those who have confessed and those who have not recognised, but we insist on those countries that have recognised the independence of KIM not even started the ratification process of the SAA with Kosovo. Why? Because there is still a dialogue on what the final solution to KIM will look like. So, you are also in the EU, or in EU Member States, leading a realistic policy. That they recognized the independence of KIM, you know, it's an act of government, in one piece of paper. One is a piece of paper, and the other is reality. They also see that the state of Serbia is not completely evicted with KIM. They also see that the state of Serbia is still present at KIM, so there are still our schools below, there are still our health institutions. The Republic of Serbia is still investing a lot of money from the middle budgets in which Serbs live. The "sun valley" project, a project to build houses for persons who are internally expelled from KIM. This is all said, not only to the citizens of Serbia, but also to those states that have recognised the independence of KIM that KIM is still an unresolved matter and that there is no need for them to enter the ratification of the SAA with, in fact, one territory, whose statehood is and how questionable. As far as this is concerned, as you said... 2.52. Thanks, I don't want to steal time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58258	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58259	Where good luck is that this SAA has never ratified with Serbia, the SAA has turned us into black and our economy and our agriculture and that it is wise and wise to give up that, that is, to undo that ratification, we would have developed agriculture and economy much faster in Serbia at all. But, behold, a CEFTA agreement was signed at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and we are helping in this way to simply remind the citizens, not only the MPs who all participated in the fact that KIM is increasingly slipping towards independence. We never said you were the most responsible, that you were the only one responsible. We are the ones who are constantly saying that 14 different agreements, each signed by Borko Stefanovic, and we resent that you have united all of this in one Brussels agreement, or two. That's the problem. So we don't think that the problems started with you, but we're ready to help you solve them, solutions still exist, ways still exist, we just need to have a good will and we need to give up some mantras. Simply, the EU should go its own way, we should go our separate ways, go where there is a chance that we can help our people. You say - Serbia helps, invests in KIM, needs and is obliged and needs more. So that is one way to show that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. You don't have to brag about it. It's not bad to mention it, to hear it, to hear what you're saying. Friends from Europe, don't hide it from them either, that Serbia is still ready to, in every sense, also financially help its people in their territory, in KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58260	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58261	I'll try to pick up where I stopped. The issue raised by Mrs Radeta on the EU mission to KIM, as you know, is thanks to Boris Tadic's policy. In response to the 2008 UN Secretary General's position, he practically called on EULEX to come to KIM. We now have the fact that there are two in KIM, and in some ways three missions. UNMIK is still present, with a reduced administration, with reduced capacities, but is still present. Which means we're not completely, although we're one piece safe, but we haven't completely pushed KIM's problem out of the UN framework. Secondly, a KFOR military mission is present at KIM. If you carefully read Resolution 1244, brought by the UN Security Council, even formally-lawfully, KFOR is a UN mission, although in Resolution 1244, which we Serbs are very often called upon, it says that the mission will be essentially attended by NATO forces, as they participate. But, formally-lawfully, since this was made possible by Resolution 1244, KFOR is also a UN mission. So you have two UN missions and you have one mission that's clean at EU level, which is Eulex. It would be ideal for the Republic of Serbia if the KiM problem were solely at UN level. Because in the UN we have states, finally, we have in the UN Security Council the two countries, which we can always count on to be on the side of Serbia, not only when it comes to KIM, but also the question you spoke about today several times, which is the issue of genocide. Had it not been for a resolute Russian stance in the UN Security Council on the entire Serbian people, it would have been stamped if it had been genocide and thus we would have suffered irreparable historical damage. Now, is it possible at this time, in a month or six months, that we, in such a colloquial way, are exorcising the EU's mission with KIM - is not possible. We have to cooperate with these people. But we must co-operate, and we do so, so that it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, and especially of the Serb people who have remained to live on KIM. (President: Bringing the end. ) In the following announcement, I will read to you a tweet, which in the meantime Vladimir Todorovic, if I am not mistaken, was he the vice president of the party, Vice-President of the People's Party Vuk Jeremic, and you will see that you are now starting to enter the dead race between you and Vuk Jeremic about who is the major opponent of the arrival of Makron in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58262	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58263	As for the EU mission to KIM, we know how all this happened, Mr Martinovic, we were in the same parliamentary group then, and you were in the Serbian Radical Party. Remember that a resolution was brought to the Assembly, that Vuk Jeremic had gone to the UN Security Council, that he had changed there what was not adopted in the National Assembly, when he returned, said he had been forced by Boris Tadic. Of course, in the meantime, it turns out they were the same team. They were formal then, but they worked for someone else then and both. When it comes to KFOR at KIM, sometimes when you talk about it and some things get the impression that you're explaining something to us that we don't know. We know that well and that is why we have been talking for months that Serbia should officially request an extraordinary session of the UN Security Council and that precisely because KFOR is in KIM we are asking that the Russian and Chinese military join the KFOR mission. Russia was once in KIM, and precisely because of this relationship the authorities then pulled their units, because they realized that Serbia did not defend KIM then, so what would they do. So now the circumstances have changed, we believe in the Serbian government, and that is why you should insist on what we have warned you about and have been distracting you for months. You need to get rid of vanity, I don't mean you personally, but the government, you need to get rid of vanity, and when you hear us tell you something that's really useful for the state and for the people, you have to accept it nicely. Of course, it is of paramount importance that our army be prepared for, God forbid, that it can defend our people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58264	Thank you. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58265	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we heard from one colleague as a remark, I really don't know what the difference is between Vlahovic and Djelic, and who else was there, Labus, Dinkic, Pitic and others with the Serbian Progressive Party? I really don't understand it. All in Serbia know that in terms of people who stole from Serbia, they have plagued the country in every sense, destroyed the economy. There is no dispute and everyone in Serbia knows it. Before that, in order to come to power at all, they carried out the coup, set fire to this Assembly where we are today, and the RTS building, and they hacked with rifles and long pipes into various institutions, beating people up, forming crisis headquarters, etc., etc. After them, the next government that came continued the devasting process of Serbia in every sense and the strong robbery privatisations we talked about earlier, and hundreds and hundreds of companies that have shut down hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs as a direct consequence of their country's plight management. And now that the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, is as prime minister or as president of the state today, trying to get the country back on its feet, to fix the economic picture, to restore the broken economy, to heal the state of public finances, to make in every sense those words from Serbia and a successful and orderly country, you are now honoring some Vlahovic and Djelic. So everyone has the right to go to that bathroom. Has anyone been to the bathroom, has anyone spoken to the bathroom, who's interested? They have nothing to do with us. Maybe they have something to do with the ones that aren't here today? Maybe it has something to do with Gilas? Maybe it has something to do with Vuk Jeremic? Maybe with Bosca Obradic? Who's gonna know. But with SNS, it has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58266	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58267	It won't be like that. I said it twice, and once again, there's information that Djelic is the co-owner of the Vansi erporta that bought our airport. Is that part of the 11m-euro fund Djelic stole in Serbia through the Meridian Bank? You say what you have to do with Dinkic? Nothing, except that he brought bin Zayed, except that his deputy, at the time they still had a party, Susana Grubjesic was a minister in one of your governments, except that this Susana Grubjesic is there today some adviser for something European, I don't know, you have tones. So you've got something to do with it. And even if there were no such connections, our question is - how is it possible that they weren't processed? You keep talking - SNS, Government headed by Alexander Vukić, etc. Don't hide behind his name all the time. Come on, say something - the D.A.'s office, headed by Zagorka Dolovac, did it, too. Let go of what no one slows you down. Let's talk about what's controversial. How could it not have occurred to you that you here in the National Assembly were to raise the question, here, where's our D.A.'s report? You've been made by the European Commission, and here we've had various reports of these so-called. The independent bodies, we discussed them, you set it up to be at a time when half the working time of the Assembly was covered with tennis matches, that even in public it was not heard, and it would be better for you to let it be spoken before it was possible throughout the public. We've got a report from the D.A.'s office upstairs. When are you going to bring us here to discuss, but to plant Zagorka Dolovac here, not to send some deputy, and then to discuss what we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58268	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58269	I'm responding. Article 107 has been broken, Mr. Arsic. During Mr. Markovic's presentation, you should have reacted, not because he used his notification to Mrs. Radete's amendment to talk about something she knew nothing about, but to react as an directed man in Serbia's political life precisely to what he said. In 2012 in this National Assembly, you were elected then as a National MP, I don't think you were then vice president, or, I don't know, sworn by the ministers, right in the government where she was in the SNS coalition, and her Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and First Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic took the oath as Minister of Finance and Business Mladjan Dinkic. Mr. Markovic, that you have prepared yourself elementally for this meeting and what we are talking about now is the destruction of Serbian banks. These are "Beobanka", "Investbanka", "JIK Banka", banks that he just destroyed, here, Mr Arsic, we know all about it, he talked about, so I don't know how many times, you want me to find you stenographic notes from 2002 to 2000 and what year, countless times in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Right, Mr. Arsic? Well, yeah. Why didn't you react? The one who destroyed the banks and who led to bankruptcy, that's because they're not liquid and they can't operate, and to bring these mafia foreign banks, because he was taking money from them too, so in one foreign bank today, the advisor was a minister in your government. You had to talk to him. He's the one who's been setting you up with a policy of finance and economy. It was a joint ministry. He wondered, therefore, that whole period for the two years, from 2012 to 2014, where each dinar would go, how money from the budget would be spent, how transfer funds would be given to municipalities and cities. You say - we have nothing to do with it. No, we have connections. Well, you have connections, because to make that coalition, you took one of those partners. You can't wash everything now. (President: Bringing the end. You're responsible for something. What you are doing now is in some segments of the interest of Serbian citizens, but listen to our good intentions. We are, above all, a party that takes care of the state and national and state interests. Now, Mr. Markovic, you're going to say, maybe you come out here in front of the Assembly, here I'm going to finish, next to you by Vlahovic, you're not going to tell him, maybe you're so nice to say – eh, where are you, thief? I'll tell him, when I see him, I'll tell him - where are you, thief, you're not in jail? I'm going to tell everyone like that every normal man he's eaten and left without a crust of bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58270	My colleague Jovanovic, I've been talking about this society the day before, since 2002... Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58271	Here, let's start with what was last of that famous Dinkich. Aleksandar Vukic has driven Dinkic out of the Serbian government, not you. So, Alexander Vukic is the one who excluded Mladjan Dinkic from the Serbian government and excluded him from Serbia's political life. That's one thing. I'm replicating you from the SRS because you're constantly tying Mladjan Dinkic to Alexander Vukic, for my completely unknown reasons. So, Alexander Vukic is the one who turned off and expelled Mladjan Dinkic from the government. It wasn't you or anyone else who did it, it was SNS. As for the French company Vansi, she did not buy Belgrade Airport, as she said... (Miss Radeta: She took the concession. Take it easy, don't be nervous. So, I'm obliged to tell the truth, and you can be as angry as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58272	Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58273	So the French company Vansi did not buy and not acquire the "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade Airport, but concluded a concession agreement with the Serbian government. The concession implies the French company's right to use the resources of Belgrade Airport during a certain period of time, but when the concession agreement expires, it returns to the use of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Republic of Serbia has not lost ownership of "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade Airport, it is still owned by the Republic of Serbia, only currently being given to use under the Treaty on concessions with the French company. So much so that the citizens of Serbia would know. As for the State Council Report, you keep asking us – where is Zagorka Dolovac? Now I ask you, and what do we have to do with Zagorka Dolovac? We don't have anything. So she is neither a member nor a SNS official and we have no need to justify ourselves and explain to Serbian citizens where Zagorka Dolovac is. What we need to explain to the citizens of Serbia, the Committee of Justice, the State Administration and local self-government was at its session, which was held several days ago, discussing the State Council of Prosecutors report, you could come to that session of the Committee and ask the representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors for anything you do not understand about Zagorka Dolovac and about the work of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I have remained obliged to the citizens of Serbia, please, Mr Arsic, to allow me to say this, I have remained obliged to say one important thing to the citizens of Serbia. I mentioned a tweet that Vladimir Todorovic deleted in the meantime. There's been a lot of dust going up these days, and so on. Quazielite and quasi-intelligentism rose up against Alexander Vukic because he allegedly insults intelligence in Serbia, or people who have graduated from colleges, who are professors of the university, etc., with his authorial text in "Politice" – "Elita and Plebs". Now, this member of the Vladimir Todorovic elite, he considers himself an elite, he is the vice-president of the Vuk Jeremic party, today is exactly 11.01 p.m., in the meantime, deleted the tweet, so that Serbian citizens would not see what kind of elite it is, I apologize to the ladies and apologize to the citizens of Serbia, but so it says in his tweet – the grandmother, currently active. There, that's the elite. That's why I had to read this. As degutant as the tweet is, it contains a degutant, but the content suggests that Aleksandar Vukic was absolutely right when he called these people like Vuk Jeremic, like Boris Tadic, like various Bakics, like various experts for everything and everything he called false intelligence and quasielite. This is not how anyone who is fundamentally decent is expressed, and in particular is not expressed by a member of the so-called ". Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, However, a member of the so-called so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member" of the so-called "I'm a member." Elite, by the way, Vladimir Todorovic is a lawyer for Vuk Jeremic on a lawsuit that Vuk Jeremic filed against Aleksandr Vukic, so he wrote a tweet like this and now he is a member of the elite. Aleksandar Vukic is absolutely right and everything he wrote in that author text in "Politica" is absolutely right. We're dealing with false intelligence, we're dealing with a fake elite. The one who really is an elite, well that's never going to say it to himself, but the one who claims to himself that he's an elite, and that everyone else is worth nothing, actually shows that it's the opposite situation, that he's not worth anything. So various Todorici, Bakici, Boris Tadici, Bosko Obradovici etc., they do not actually represent any elite in Serbia. The elite destroyed the Serbian economy you spoke of, the elite destroyed Serbian banks. We who represent plebs, who say we are not elite, call us credentials, call us sandwichers, call us bots, well, we, that's who we are, we've managed to revive the Serbian economy, we've managed to consolidate public finances, we've managed to establish the best possible relations with the Russian Federation, both with China and we've come from the French president, etc. We, the kind of, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That fake elite thing has never worked, nor will it ever work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58274	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58275	I don't know what the last thing this has to do with us, except start my discussion with the fact that the five-irons destroyed the economy, left people out of work, etc. But that little explanation of what a concession and my colloquial expression is, I mean simply, that it's not fair, I don't fit in that way in that elite you were talking about. I know what you're up to, and so do you. You know well that I am a lawyer who finished law school in Sarajevo in 3.5 years with an average of 8.7 and don't explain to me what a concession is. But where Zagorka Dolovac is, that's due. You're saying what did he have to do with Zagorka Dolovac? Nothing, except that you're a congregation majority who has the right to say to send a request out of here now, we insist that tomorrow at nine o'clock there be Zagorka Dolovac and that the MPs shake her up a little bit and question what she was doing, what she didn't do, and why she did or didn't. Do you know that such jurisdiction has this National Assembly? We've been looking for months, years, but, unfortunately, we don't have that power right now so we can do it. You, you can. You're saying I didn't come to the board. What do I do on the board? I'm talking here. What would I talk to the board about with some D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s Council, I don't even know who it was. We want to talk here. After all, if you provide that, if we talk to Zagorka Dolovac in that way, well, you'll take a lot of that burden off your back, we won't ask you much more, when she gives us the answers, and it can be God we, and that conversation, maybe the reason to initiate and her shift. Yes, we have all that right, especially you as a congregation majority. You, now ask me what we have to do with Zagorka Dolovac. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58276	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58277	You're a little contradictory, Mrs. Radeta. You're telling me what you're going to do on the board to talk to some of the D.A.'s officers there, and the other day you were talking to them here on the tide when the state's major prosecutor suggested, (Verica Radeta: I will. Well, on the tide, they're the same people. Then what did you talk to them about when Zagorka Dolovac was gone? So she wasn't Zagorka Dolovac, and you were talking to them. So, what's the difference between talking to them on the tide and on the board? Zagorka Dolovac was neither on the board nor on the tide, and you spoke to these people after their proposal to elect a deputy public prosecutor. You're asking me why I read this tweet. I read this tweet in order to make sure once again that we are dealing with fake elite in Serbia, with false intelligence, with people who impose racist principles into political action and share Serbian citizens on those who are intellectually superior, that is supposed to be them, and to us who are intellectually inferior. It's a Nazi, it's a fascist theory of society. We fight it openly. We believe that all citizens of Serbia are equal, that they are all equal, whether they have graduated from college or not, whether doctors are science, or not. You're saying I'm giving you a lecture. I'm not giving you a lecture, but I'm obliged to warn Serbian citizens whenever you say something that isn't true, I don't think you wanted to lie, away from it, but when you say something that's not true to harm the SNS. So, it was not the government of Serbia and it was not the president of the Republic that sold to the French "Nikola Tesla" Airport, we did not sell any of the important resources of the Serbian state which is of strategic importance to our economy, but was issued to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in a concession with the ultimate intention that when the concession agreement expires, it was a much more profitable company than it was before the concession contract was concluded. That is why concession agreements, among other things, are being concluded, not with the ownership of the Republic of Serbia and will remain the property of the Republic of Serbia. Another contribution to my weight to how fake an elite is. This Vladimir Todorovic, who calls what he calls the president of France, has filed a lawsuit on behalf of Dragan Djilas against the Republic of Serbia for compensation, he says, immaterial damages. He writes a lawsuit with a proposal for a temporary measure, so Dragan Gilas is a public figure and politician, president of the freedoms and rights party. Well, this Todorovic doesn't even know what it's called the Gilas party and he calls himself an elite. This Gilas party, allegedly supposed to be a social democratic party, and Gilas is as far away from social democracy as Jesus Christ from the Inquisition. So they have nothing to do with it. Not someone who is the richest man in Serbia to fight for the rights of the working class. He can't, by definition he can't. He called his party a party of freedom and justice, and this Todoric, who writes such abominations on Twitter, calls Gilas's party as his lawyer a party of freedom and justice. So this is another proof of false intelligence, of false elite and that he was right about Alexander Vukic when he told them that the quasi were intelligence and that the quasi were elite and that they were making a fake division in Serbia on the elite and on the plebs. If we are the kind of plebs, great, we will stay the way we are, but we will push Serbia forward, but never again like this, Gilasi, Jeremici will not be in a position to rob and fill their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58278	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58279	To remind myself, the position of the SRS is that the debate in the National Assembly in front of the public with the mandatory transfer of the entire debate on another RTS programme, a democratic fluid that no one can ever give up. Our position is also, the committees exist, we know why they formally exist. We think and never hide it that the main debate is to be conducted right here in front of Serbia's public. That's why we talked to the D.A.'s representatives here, and why we didn't want to make a sweater out there on the board. It's our attitude, and it's always gonna be like that. We've never been able to hide it. As for that tweet and what it's called, Todorovic, I understand why you mentioned it, because you want to talk about it now and I don't mind, but I don't understand why it's in the context of the conversation with us. The Serbian Radical Party has never been an elitist party. The Serbian Radical Party is a party that has always boasted that everything there is in Serbia is in our party. We've never been ashamed of any member. We've never been ashamed of any voters, I'm not saying you do, but now I speak for the SRS. I agree that these currently empty benches were people, most of them who had these fascist views, very often not only when it comes to the Wolf and the Progressives, but when it comes to Serbian radicals. They were the ones who estimated that they thought that Seselj couldn't be an MP, that I couldn't be vice president of the National Assembly, that they were radicals like this and like that, that we were out there somewhere not knowing what we were doing, and they stood up for it. Here are the people, they should sit down, the people who asked for the SRS to be deleted from the records, as they say to be shut down. And we know that, and where you'll be more fascist about it. We know that, they are, but only then to be realistic, long before they started tagging us, now we're not competing, but we're talking about the same people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58280	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58281	What is a fact is that the main target and Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, Boris Tadic and all other exhibits and the disintegrated DS, is Alexander Vukic. I think that's what all Serbian citizens agree on. So, there is no more aggressive personality in Serbia at the moment, in a political sense than Alexander Vukic, where these attacks are not only stopped on his personality, as the president of the Republic and as president of the SNS, but are still going on, so his son is insulted not only Danilo, but also a child who is two years old, so his daughter Milic is being insulted, so his wife is being insulted, so he is threatening to sue his ex-wife, Ksenija Vukic, because the woman is running a show on Pink TV, and they don't like what he does and what kind of program is broadcast by "Pink", so let's hit again directly or indirectly on the head of Aleksandr Vukic. That's why I said this, not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia. They all joined together, all together, those who were mortal enemies until yesterday. Who brought them together? They were joined by hatred against Alexander Vukic, not against you, with all due respect. They know that you are not their main political competitor, they know who is most popular, they know who the people in Serbia love most, and who the people in Serbia respect most, for the courage and for all that they have done for Serbia, so they hit it the most. Through TV "N1", through numerous printed media, through social networks, there is no abomination they did not utter at the expense of Alexander Vukic, at the expense of his family and God we, at the expense of many of us who are public figures on behalf of the SNS. So there's an open hack against a man who had the courage to write an authorial text in "Politics" and to strip down all these people as false elites, like people who actually represent a racist idea about the existence of superhumans and subhumans. Apparently, they're superhumans, they're ibermensch and we're intermensible. We're the ones below. Serbian citizens understand well, I don't care what Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas think about it. What they are, they have shown in action, but Serbian citizens know well and Serbian citizens understand well that we who are allegedly plebs to drag Serbia forward in both political terms and financially, that we have made it possible to invest, new jobs, new roads, new railways, new hospitals, that we have the courage to look the people in the eyes, we have the courage to talk to the citizens, so Aleksandar Vukic and leads this great action across Serbia, where he should tour all 29 districts in the Republic of Serbia. Because he wants to see on his face what the problems affecting Serbian citizens are, to talk to them and to actively engage in solving these problems. I think that's how a responsible politician behaves, and those who have not seen the people in the picture, who claim to be elite, have shown who they are and what they were while they were in power. They've ruined everything alive. Our mission from the SNS is to prevent Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, and false Social Democrats, and false nationalists, and in fact fascists and Nazis from ever coming to power again in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58282	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58283	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I just thought that this replica between my colleagues Martinovic and my colleague Radeta would prevail along the famous match Djokovic – Federerer, but I seem to have been wronged. I'll start with the amendment after I've answered the amendment. (Vica Radeta: Who's Novak Djokovoc, and who's Federerer?) To be honest, you and he are my radicals too, so I can't share you. Much is true in the presentation of Radeta's colleague, but Serbia as one serious country must also respect those laws that were passed before coming to power by any majority. So it's very hard to erase all of what Radeta's colleague said, although there's a lot she said was true. On the other hand, about the same thing that we talked about today, this attack on Professor Vojislav Seselj, in the list "Today". I am one of the MPs who has no reason to hesitate and be ashamed to say in Srebrenica there was no genocide and I think that every decent and honest citizen of Serbia should face what happened in Srebrenica and based on facts, and Dr Vojislav Seselj has very well explained what genocide is and what the elements must meet. There was no genocide there. However, many who wish to bring Serbia back, who want to muddle Serbia and its citizens, are trying to, unfortunately, also those in Serbia, who are from Serbia, are trying to deny it and to portray us as a genocide people. What was wrong with my colleague Seselj yesterday? He said it himself, he's such a man, he's, with very hard and rough words, addressed a colleague who wrote about Serbia being a genocide country and that we're a genocide people and I can only blame him for the way he spoke, but the facts he was talking about are true. You didn't say what kind of mongoose. Yes. In addition, there was a very long discussion here that said that individuals, as counterpart Markovic and co-worker said, were stealing something. I don't agree with those facts and I say here, they didn't steal anything, they robbed, they robbed Serbia, they destroyed it, they drove it to ruin, to the edge, to the edge. Now, what do I propose to my colleague Radetti and all these great lawyers? I agree that the law must be respected, but you lawyers need to find a modus and that those who passed the laws to rob, because as one journalist said recently, says – there is none of it, professor, no one will be punished. Serbia is a country where robbery is legalized. They passed laws like that so they could rob. I believe in our lawyers, in our judiciary, and I believe that they will find a way to rob you, not steal you, but rob you, because what Velya says - come on, steal a little bit, that's petty. This is an enormous and very big robbery, and we need to find ways to punish these people deservedly. I don't care about their names at all, I don't care about their functions. Let everyone be punished and rewarded as he deserves. We are ahead of times that are quite difficult and will have great consequences for Serbia and the future of its citizens. That also tells me the fact, I was almost in one assembly, in one meat in Serbia, where the voice of an ordinary man was heard, and it reminded me of a past in Serbia, where these poets and pirates and people who delivered messages for the future were singing with their skills, or showing us what was going to happen, so now, as I recall, I'm going to try to do it here again. He says: “Serb days have come before Serbia. Heads up, all Serbian souls. He wants our baptism to be brought down, that the Orthodox may tear us out of our soul. ” The people sang it well in today's 21st century, in 2019, so watch what awaits us, and we argue needlessly, one we speak against Serbia, the other we defend it. There is no salvation and happiness until we realize that Serbia is one and only our country and that we all have to defend it with all our heart and all our strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58284	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58285	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, of course this law is before us and the amendment... The law is good, the amendment isn't. I think the government is right to reject him. This Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings from citizens, laid down by banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY is remarkable and good. We brought these changes and additions last year, only here are technical things, and that means moving deadlines both in obtaining documentation and in paying off the war. Instead of ten, it comes down to eight, so that the savings will not be damaged in terms of time. But there's one problem here. A fellow Martinovic mentioned a part of the citizens of the former Serbian Krajina, and with them we have one, let's say, unresolved problem that I suggested I would talk about, which is because the documentation cannot obtain a savings book because it was war circumstances. One part of those savings was on the battlefield and left in the house a savings book and, of course, a house and a savings book was burned down. Now the banks in the former republics, meaning branches, have lists and amounts, but we in the amendments to the law have made that valid documentation is just a book and a card. I don't think the Ministry of Finance should be making problems here and having an understanding, because the documentation has other banks, that is, followers of these banks in that sense. I have to say, the former regime didn't take care of this problem. I personally asked for an ex, let's say, Minister and former Governor Dinkic. He didn't show any interest in this very category of savings from this former Socialist republic. However, we should not be surprised because the former regime took care of itself, its pockets, because it robbed the Republic of Serbia. It's not true that we didn't process one piece, let's say, of former politicians. Five ministers, also spoke of by counterpart Martinovic, including Sasa Dragin, Oliver Dulic, Jasna Matic, Slobodan Milosavljevic and Minister Predrag Bubalo. That's five ministers and two assistants. So, it's a good thing in the new government, so new governments after the DOS, no ministers have been processed, which means the government is very responsible and takes care of the state and finances in this country. Let me say something, as mentioned, about the visit of the President of France, McCron. As colleagues have said, the tradition of friendship between the Serbian and French people is long. It's even longer than the 19th century than the 17th century. It comes from the 12th century, from Stefan Nemanje. It's been a great friendship ever since. I must tell you, honourable MPs, that Stefan Nemanja and the thesis I represent and one part of the historians, his wife Anna is just French. She was Louis VII's sister, the French king, and during Stefan's visit to France, two sons were born there, on their return, after the Byzantines attacked the Serbs, the Serbs asked the French knights for help. Besides, to give them back to Nemania. During his return, the French king told Nemanja, and I will quote "Tronical genealogy" - Here are two of these flowers, which are lilies, representing two of your sons. Part of my roommate should be part of your roommate, complete quote. It's about the coat of arms that stands here higher you, Mr. Arsic, and the lilies of that. It's that hidden flower. It goes back to the 12th century, not from a newer time. And, if I wasn't going wide, that friendship was going through the whole Middle Ages, especially in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. As for the remarks against Mr. President McCron, as some MPs say, that Kosovo is a state, it is not disputed when the position of its government and state is, because it was recognised by the Republic of Kosovo before it came to power, but it gave hope for a compromise solution. It's a big deal and it's a huge thing. What are you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, talking about Kosovo here today? Well, we have a third of the MPs who recognise Kosovo as a state. Is that true? Do you want me to quote now the presidents of all the parliamentary groups and MPs who have confessed? He's 15. It's all those who aren't here today, MPs and groups. That's the point. We in the internal dialogue that was led on the Kosovo issue did not resolve it, because representatives of those political parties and groups that are not presently in this high house did not want to because they wrote off Kosovo. So the same thing about Srebrenica. What are we talking about? Well, a third of the MPs here claim it. Are you saying Cedomir Jovanovic doesn't claim that Srebrenica was genocide? The MP, who is the leader of one party, says this way: "The Serbian Republic was formed on genocide, on the Srebrenica genocide, on ethnic cleansing, unrecorded in Europe after World War II", on June 23, 2012, and we object to Makron and his country? I didn't hear you objecting to him here, gentlemen. Do you know what else that MP said? I quote: "Republic government has treated and still treats Vojvodina in a corrupt way, and that is why Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent country", on October 26, 2012. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a third of them here. Well, do you know what Albin Kurti said? Here, on 5 April 2006, he said at 10.25 minutes, that he would like the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to be Cedomir Jovanovic or Zarko Korac, because they, he said, only recognise Kosovo's independence. Please, what are we talking about? Well, there's Nenad Canak. Well, he's waiting for McCron yesterday, and he said on March 5th 2017, "I'm ready to recognise Kosovo's independence," etc. The same Nenad Canak recently, back ten days, on 24 June 2019, said "Kosovo is not Serbia, but a place where some people who have a rounded continent live." So, what do we want? So, do you want me to quote Vuk Jeremic, a known descendant wolf and leader of an international gang of thieves and frauds for Kosovo? And there's Dragan Gilas. There is also a farmer in an attempt by Zoran Zivkovic, who said at the International Conference in Vienna in 2003: "I don't care if Kosovo will be ours or anyone else's, etc." So, about that, so much for Srebrenica. What Professor Vojislav Seselj said here on Tuesday about genocide in Srebrenica is right from the point of view of science, gentlemen, and some journalists think they can talk whatever they want, but I can't! It's a matter of science. You know what genocide is. There can be 15 or 20 thousand people killed somewhere, but it doesn't have to be genocide. There are three conditions that should be conditioned, met, and Srebrenica does not have these conditions, especially the preparation period, i.e. the intention or intention to say the Croat brothers etc. So, I don't want to talk about it, but here in this high house, a third of the MPs, so remember Sandra Raskovic Ivić, who said on Croatian television that in Srebrenica there was genocide, etc., and Storm that was a humanitarian thing. Well, he repeated Slaven Letica again recently on HRT, when the talks were held on the political situation here in this high house, and they spoke of Bosko Obradovic, he said: "He is small, only Sanda Raskovic Ivić supports him," which she said, quoting, so Slaven Letica says: "That in Srebrenica he was genocide," finished quote etc. So that's the problem. I'm just surprised, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's the prosecution doing? So these statements that I have quoted all fall under the Criminal Code of Serbia, Articles 305 to 321. So what's their name, which destroys state integrity? And the traitors of the state. Look, I don't have a problem saying that. And you know who's objecting to us telling them that they're traitors to the state because they're trying to split territorial integrity? It's just the ones doing it. They're NATO dusters, and they're the ones that aren't in this high house today. And in the end, if I finish this part, I won't deal with them anymore. They were best said by their DS ambassador, the very St.St. Slav Bashar, quote: "The Democratic Party, in various variants, is a self-government community of mules and thieves", finished quote, Svetislav Bashar, on 22 May 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58286	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58287	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I was encouraged by my colleague Atlagic, by his wonderful exposure to mention something else about the French and Yelena of England. Just because of that Yelena of England from the King and there to Studenica, a long time ago her future husband, Urosh the First, planted some beautiful trees in the Ibra Valley and made the valley of the lilac. He has planted millions of lilacs that continue today and mark the mother of our kings, Dragutin and Milutin, into a beautiful, cultural and educated country. I would now return to the amendment and to a wonderful presentation and explanation of my colleague, Verica Radete, who said a lot in which I would fully agree with her, above all about our economic downturn and destruction from 2000 to 2012 and that is undeniable. And we have repeatedly pointed out here in all of our exhibitions and in our discussions who is responsible for this economic Sunflower of Serbia by 2012. My personal impression is that this DOS government has done us more harm in economics and economics than those sanctions before that and NATO bombing. As for that second part of the exhibition, she mentioned these economic forums. I can tell you, economic forums are primarily organized by professional associations. When it comes to the Consumer Forum, it is the Union of Economists of Serbia. On the case, I also participated for several years in the work of another forum, the Milocer Forum, which was organised in the previous state of SRJ by the Union of Economists of Serbia-Montenegro, Veselin Vukotic and Aleksandar Vlahovic and Djindjic, etc. There have been various recommendations brought here. First of all, there was talk of those years, which means about 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 about the transition economy and the transitions, what's going to happen to us? We were struck by a great miracle. Thank God this government doesn't appreciate those attitudes. So they can be advisory attitudes and nothing else. This government knows what it's doing and it runs the country's economic policy, not some economic forums. And counterpart Arsic explained very nicely why he would not accept the amendment, in which way the previous government returned that old foreign currency savings and what it was doing and what transactions and what mundane actions it was doing. I'm more interested in something else. A short while ago, a colleague Martinovic read a lawsuit, a lawsuit filed by lawyer Todorovic on behalf of Dragan Djilas, reminds me of something I read yesterday - Dragan Djilas filed a lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia because he is a public figure, because he is publicly told about him and his property. And I'd ask one question, did anyone manage to create an abnormal fortune in two years? Well, it's nowhere in the world. And suddenly a story appears now, not of the 74 thousand euros, he said yesterday that he was at the time we have a hundreds abroad of companies that had 60m euros in turnover. Well, should someone in this congregation have started this topic in public, and we now know, it seems that the innocent man, he only made 60 million in a very short time, but he didn't tell anyone? He only mentions the 74 grand there when he reported the property. Well, that's what my colleague Arsic said, if it were fortunate that someone had passed a long time ago that law we're not going to discuss today because there are no amendments, we probably wouldn't have come to such a situation that someone is getting rich in a very short time, and that people are falling into misery more and more and more and more and more and more, and that at some point we're left without 400,000 jobs. I will not accept the amendment of my colleague Radete in any case, because what it says in article number one is exactly what the President of the Republic has been for many years and all of these governments that have been since 2012 and to this day this assembly majority. So respect for the law. Respect for other people's agreements, respect for other people's decisions, but it says Serbia wants to co-operate, that Serbia is on the right track, that Serbia wants to create, that Serbia wants to make progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58288	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58289	I thank the chairman of Arsic. Dear fellow Members of the People, I think that we are all here in the same opinion based on what has been said by my colleagues, and that is that whoever has been stealing or malfeasance should be arrested and convicted. I believe that justice is slow but reaching even though it would personally want to be much faster. As for the amendment, let me explain. The payment of savings from the entire former Yugoslavia is scheduled until 31 August 2019, i.e. until 29 February 2024 under current law. The applicable law provided for payment until 2023. Moving deadlines is the consequence of the inability to save supplies of documentation from competent institutions in the former republics, which we know for a fact that it is not easy at all because they were walking from one institution to another. It is about foreign exchange savings from the area of former Yugoslavia, laid at banks, whose headquarters is on Serbia's territory and their branches on the territory of the former SFRY republics. According to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, foreign currency savings are now gaining rights from the former Yugoslav republics that they can collect their foreign savings and that is nothing controversial. If the SNS had been in power, this issue would certainly not have been delayed this long and would have been resolved much earlier. Our predecessors only owed themselves for reasons to buy social peace. We obviously don't. The problems identified in connection with the collection of the necessary documentation from the former SFRY republics have led to the need to extend the deadline, which as a confirmation of foreign savings instead of foreign exchange cards that were far more transparent, also received foreign exchange cards. The extension of the time limit for submitting applications in this Article 1 of the Law, as I said for collecting documents, also has consequences for moving, it is quite clear. It is easy to criticise and anything that is taken, and yet on the other hand there are no concrete proposals. What does this mean -- it is deleted, when Article 1 only explains the rights of citizens? The Serbian Radical Party resents resolving decades of credit issues, for example in Switzerland. Then we're done putting stuff under the carpet. We solve things and clean up piled problems. From this point on, I think this amendment, my colleague, is being deleted, is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58290	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58291	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to make my contribution to this debate. There was talk of savings trying to exercise their rights. It is precisely because of them that we are discussing this proposal, but we are also referring to some earlier times and everything that the government has actually failed to do for the benefit of its citizens. The colleagues mentioned MPs who were not there, mentioned the empty benches where those who exercised power should sit until 2012. You know, it's very bad when a parliamentary party, such as the DS, boycotts parliament and prevents its MPs from participating in the work. However, we heard in the media statements from their press conferences that they were transferring to us and saying they returned the old foreign currency. But what they did was they only used citizens, of whom they bought bonds for ridiculous money to sell them to their tycoons for multiple amounts, for drastically higher amounts. Then I don't know why we expect in parliament anyone from such a party from such a government to say something, because I doubt they'd admit to the citizens and to the public what they were doing. It seems to me that answering some questions seems like we'll never get it. On the other hand, we have daily performances and performances. Here, now is the current Dragan Gilas, who himself goes to the police, I guess to mask what he was doing and what he was doing and why investigations will be launched. He thinks the citizens will believe those performances. I think she's trying for nothing. On Monday, he went to the Police Administration for the city of Belgrade and asked for a statement, as state authorities allegedly accuse him of robbing RTS and claim an investigation has been launched against him. So, again farce, the re-smuggling of citizens' eyes, which are linked to solutions to answers expected from these same state bodies. He did it, of course, to show that he's a clean politician, but I think he's a little late with that. He forgot, on the other hand, that even the citizens he's giving daily performances know something about, so they know that police officers don't have the authority to provide information that's being handled by the prosecution. The essence is very easy to see. First, it's a panic that occurs with Gilas and the team due to an announced investigation into their affairs, and secondly, I'm quite certain that Vucica and SNS won't be able to win the election. That's why they resort to lies, inventions, that want to discredit Alexander Vukic and his associates, so they can stay in some political race. I really hope they decide not to boycott the election. I hope that they will decide to go to the elections, because that way we will see what their policy has been and how it is once again lost to Alexander Vukic and the SNS. We are left here to do our job, to pass laws that will improve our citizens' standard of living. Accordingly, I will repeat that I will also give support to this draft law relating to those citizens, to the savings that have passed their savings by 1992 and I want them to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58292	The word is made by MP Milorad Mircic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58293	Just to clear up one misunderstanding. Namely, this is where the International Court of Justice ruled and it is executive and binding for Serbia. Serbia is doing more than they ask Serbia to do, in the sense that it gives an additional deadline to obtain the necessary documentation from all those who have been saving, especially foreign exchanges saves "Invest Bank" in BiH, specifically in Tuzla. The court has determined on the basis of the pilot of the verdicts that are persons, 8,000 people have the right to seek out their old foreign currency savings, and that's where the whole story ends. And the amendment of the SRS goes that way. One who has not provided so far, so what does it take for Serbia to be tolerated? And considering, gentlemen, you are obviously not up to the end, some of you are not sent to this whole case, the final agreement on paying off the old foreign savings between the former republics is the Sucession Agreement. Every republic pays its citizens. This is an exception. This is about the person, or two people who sued Invest Bank. And the bank for international alignment, due to its impatience to the bank's president, has made a radical decision like this. It's all the subject of the Sucession Agreement. We have a problem, when you talk about it, so much patriotism you express, we have a problem with people who lived in Republika Srpska and other parts of Croatia. We have a problem because they have not yet applied for the payment of old foreign savings due to incomplete documentation. You know what the Croats did? Croatians have informed the International Court of Justice that they have paid off all their citizens, read to the citizens. They're not interested in what they've driven out with the Storm. But something that is very frantic, literally, is that in the case of "Ljubljanska Banka", based on discussions by committees made by the International Court of Justice, the representative of Slovenia has opted out his opinion and left the commission's work, because he said it was an injustice, that Slovenia, or "Ljubljanska Banka" paid off the old foreign savings. The international court didn't want to respect that. But he left. And the representatives of Serbia remained on the commission that adopted such a proposal, which made such a decision. Far from being able to change this decision, as the representative of Slovenia could not, but made the moral gesture, he left. What are we talking about here today? You obviously have an assignment. We are talking about someone in the middle of Serbia saying that Kosovo is an independent state and that Serbian officials are not responding. Well, you don't have to react in some rough way, you don't have to leave that meeting, but you can say that it's a certain failure to run that state, that the people of that country don't think so, that the people of France don't think so well tell you the results of the elections in France. The French most voted in favour of a policy that does not accept Kosovo as independent. That's what this is about. It's a moral act. That during the commission meeting, a representative of Serbia left this commission, so that a man would say come on, all right. No, but you want to be, as the people would say, more Catholic than the pope. The deadline expired, who obtained the documentation, obtained, who doesn't have complete documentation, what to do. Serbia has a problem with proof. What is the problem, among other things? Serbia cannot get the exact information whether the old foreign savings are invested in the privatisation of some BiH firms. Serbia has a problem there too, and Serbia needs to cut it off. Can't get a valid file. What's to wait for? Well, don't people, it's the International Court of Justice's verdict. It's all defined with her. That is why the SRS has submitted this amendment which reads to delete this which extends the deadline for obtaining documentation. There's no need. If some injustice is done eventually, and they have a legal remedy, they have a legal remedy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58294	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58295	I really don't understand what Mr. Mircic has to do with this law. First, it is not about the decision of the International Court of Justice, Mr Mircic, but about the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. These are two completely different institutions. That's one thing. The second thing, in order for Serbian citizens to understand what I'm even talking about, is a law called the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose headquarters is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. You mentioned few Serbs who were expelled from Croatia, or Serbs who were expelled from the Krajina, and among other things, this law goes in favor of them. Many Serbs from Croatia deposited their foreign exchange savings with banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the former Yugoslav republics. Many Serbs, Marko Atlagic, know it too, I was born in Croatia, so many Serbs from Croatia were saving in banks whose headquarters was on the territory of the Republic of Serbia or who had their branches in the territories of the former Yugoslav republics, i.e. among other things in Croatia. This law goes in favour of citizens by extending deadlines, so that citizens... When we talk about citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to fully understand what we are talking about, we are not just talking about people born in Serbia whose grandparents are born in Serbia. We are also talking about citizens of the Republic of Serbia who came from Kordun, Like, Banija, Slavonia, Dalmatia in Serbia from 1991 to 1995 and who had an objectively problem collecting valid documentation and could exercise rights based on unpaid foreign savings. That's what Marko Atlagic was talking about. That's what I was talking about. That's what my other colleagues were talking about. So, this is a law that contributes to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in general, and also to those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who in the meantime became those who were expelled from Croatia, i.e. they were expelled from the territory of the former Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58296	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Mircic, do you want the right to a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58297	You're right to specify the court's name, you're right, but you're wrong about this part, Mr. Martinovic. You have a "Postal Savings" case similar to this, but it is not solved this way and you are wrong to say that the citizens who lived in the areas of Republika Srpska are covered. A special decision must be made for them. This is based on the demands of persons who are citizens of BiH and their home republic has not accepted that it pays them their savings, but Serbia has to pay them back. It's an exception, and this is all logical what you said. In the Post Office, based on the Agreement on Succession, each republic paid its citizens, and here Serbia pays citizens of other states, other republics. That's what this is about. This is where Slovenia pays citizens of the other republic, who have citizenship, in this case BiH and at the same time Germany. That's what this is about. These are two cases, exceptions, and this decision is based on those cases, Mr. Martinovic. For people who lived in Croatia, who were saving in "Zagrebačka Banka", the deadline must be re-longed. It's not a general thing. This is based on the court's decision, Mr. Martinovic. It is not based on Serbia's decision to repay debts. This is where the court obliges the deadline exactly when it is due to return. We don't mind being compensated for the damage, especially to our countrymen who have been expelled, who can't exercise elemental rights, but why do we make an exception, why a court decision that we in our own hands, in some way, violate, extending time for which they need to obtain documentation? It is the citizens of BiH, Mr Martinovic, who were saving at Invest Bank in Tuzla, an exposition in Tuzla.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58298	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58299	That'd be fine, Mr. Mircic, if that's what the bill says, but that doesn't say it. It is said that citizens who had foreign currency savings were deposited with banks whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. According to citizens, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia it is primarily thought of as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have now mentioned, the case of "Zagrebačka Banka", so "Zagrebačka Banka" has no connection, it is not subject to regulation of this law. "Zagrebačka banka" had its headquarters in Zagreb, Croatia. This is about banks established in the Republic of Serbia, or based in the Republic of Serbia, and besides, they had their branches in the territories of the former Yugoslav republics. I know from experience that many Serbs from Croatia were saving precisely on the team, conditionally speaking, at the time, to Serbian banks. They were saving in Serbian banks, and in the meantime armed conflicts broke out on Croatian territory, there was a change of government in Croatia, the exorcision of Serbs from Croatia began in 1991, before "Blash" and "Storm" occurred in 1995, "Blash" and "Storm" started and a large number of those people, who in the meantime became citizens... Let's get this thing straight. When you say "citizens," you mean "citizens." So many Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia have, meanwhile, become citizens. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they were saving, had foreign savings in banks that had their headquarters on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia, and these banks had their branches, among other things, in Croatia. With this law, we contribute, or help these citizens, we extend their deadline so that they can collect valid documentation and that they can exercise their rights. This is because many people have failed to carry foreign exchange books or other evidence that they have been saving in these banks and many Serbs from Croatia have been saving in banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and their branches in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Dubrovnik, etc. I think that this law is absolutely in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those who are, I say, authentic citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those who have become it because they have been expelled from Croatia, from BiH and from some of the other former Yugoslav republics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58300	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58301	What they would say - if he's lying to a goat, he's not lying to the government's argument. Mr Martinovic, here, I will read you a part of that argument, although you have the same text, so you can follow, and where it is said that the law has been passed in the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights and the case of Alisic and others against BiH, Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, etc. Look, the Alisic case is against "Ljubljanska Banka". This is the case against "Ljubljanska Banka". It is the pilot of the verdict, and that logic, based on the pilot of the verdict, and the "Invest Bank" case, was also ruled. Slovenians claimed that through capital invested by "Ljubljanska Banka" and its successor, "New Ljubljanska Banka" all the damages were compensated by including business space and all, however, the court reached such a verdict. These are the cases of "Investbanka" and "Ljubljanska Banka" and here the Ministry has made such a decision due to the court's decision, but it is incomprehensible for us to extend the deadline, it is incomprehensible for us in this case where the court rules. The court has defined everything, said a deadline that must be respected and defined everything. Take this item, Mr. Martinovic, you are a great lawyer and you will see and we agree with what you said, and how we know that the good part of the Republika Srpska region that settled saved in Serbian banks, i.e. in branches, but you also have those who lived in Zagreb, were bigger people in Zagreb than those of them. What's to hide? Now the Serbs, I met them from the beginning, and I know them all, some sitting here, were great Croats, even the expressions of Croatian kept, although it is difficult to speak Croatian because there is no, but the expressions that Ante Pavelic still used are stronger than they are. It's not about that kind of patriotism, it's just about rational behavior to see that based on this, let's say we extend the deadline for people who lived in Croatia. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58302	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58303	As for the explanation, Mr. Mircic, you only read part of the explanation. So the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia and not to read the full name now was brought into compliance with the European Court of Human Rights' ruling in the case of Alisic and others against BiH, Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. So this is not about the Alisic case against Serbia, but about the Alisic case against the five former Yugoslav republics. That's one thing. Secondly, I will not enter this part of the controversy, which I honestly did not understand, that there are MPs who speak the language of Ante Pavelic here, that part I did not understand, but it does not matter now. The following is the law, and we insist on it, goes in favour of Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia in the meantime because they have been saving in banks that had their headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in Croatia. What did the Croats do in 1991 when the war started? They have fallen into branches and "Belgrade Banks" and many other banks based in the Republic of Serbia and seized the total assets of these banks, complete assets, not only money, the total assets of these banks, and so far, in most cases, these assets have not been returned to the banks established in the Republic of Serbia. The law also applies to Serbs who have become Serbian citizens in the meantime because they have been expelled from Croatia. Secondly, do not forget the other side of the medal when it comes to the European Court of Human Rights. There you have a whole series of cases where Serbs from Croatia are suing Croatia for failing to meet their obligations on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings, and they were saving in banks considered Croatian, or based on the territory of the current Republic of Croatia, and at the time of the Socialist Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the European Court of Human Rights rulings, I know what your eyes are, this name Alisic. Alisic sued between Serbia and Serbia, and now Serbia must act according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling. We have to act, because then others will have to act when it comes to our people who are having disputes before the European Court of Human Rights, some against Slovenia, some against Croatia, some against BiH, and these are the wave of Serbs, ethnic Serbs. You have as many cases as you want in front of the European Court of Human Rights. Then you can't choose this verdict in such situations I'll respect, and I won't respect this verdict. We will respect this verdict, but then we will insist on respecting all the following judgments that have been made, because this verdict has the character of the precedent, so something that has become the law, that is, the rule. If in this case a verdict has been reached in favour of Alisic against the five former Yugoslav republics, then Serbia as a state rightly expects the same verdict to be made in favour of Serbs who have sued banks or states that originated in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, such as Slovenia, such as Croatia, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58304	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58305	Look what this is all about. You're a little complicated, Mr. Martinovic, but it's quite simple. Here, Emina Alisic sues "Ljubljanska Banka", but in order not to go from rude to unloved, she has sued both BiH and Slovenia. (Alexander Martinovic: But what did she sue Macedonia?) ) Just slowly, look, on the basis of this, Azis Sadzak and Sakip Sagdanovic of Tuzla sued for foreign savings in "Investbanka" and BiH and Serbia. Others who sued this same court have also sued Macedonia and the other republics of the SFRY. That's what this is about. Look now, Croatia has not accepted what Serbia has accepted, but has delayed arguing that it has paid off all obligations, and in case it is not to prove these. How will it prove when someone from the "Zagrebačka Banka" has no savings book, has no evidence, but waited until the time to enter into the process of negotiations on succession, so that this would be the subject of unpaid foreign exchange savings, to be subject to the Sucession Agreement, where in the agreement the overall obligation of Serbia, which belongs to Montenegro, since it was in the SRJ is 38%. Croatia is 24%. I don't honor you with the current. Those who conducted those talks did not do well because the president of the settlement bank lost his nerve. Who cares? In 2010, Croatia delivered, of course they were false evidence, but they received time, so their entire long subject of the succession of the Republic, the Succession Agreement and what you are saying, Serbia has now taken on the obligation to pay off some of the citizens who lived in Croatia. Croatia takes over 23%, but they say they paid off their citizens, their citizens, because there are no more Serbs and what little remains, they have no evidence. Now that the people who are from Croatia prove to be in Serbia, bring the documents to this commission, they can't obtain the documentation because they don't give from "Zagrebačka Banka". It is not disputed here that Serbia registers the exact exposures of banks in Serbia that were based in Croatia, that the bank registers how much the debt is. The dispute is this part where I can't get the paperwork. Based on these cases, it has nothing to do with the name and last name, but it's a principle. That's what you're saying is that the pilot's verdict has been made and that the pilot's verdict applies to 8,000 people. Everything else is subject to the Succession Agreement. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58306	I thank my colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58307	I can't quite agree on what a succession is, what a mass in succession is, etc. The subject of succession can only be shared property now already former SFRY, but here the banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have registered headquarters here, are not joint assets. This belongs to the Republic of Serbia. It's just a job if we've got so much property, and we've got the biggest, to give it to ex-SFRJ members. That's out of the question. Whether or not we're going to comment on the verdicts, I wouldn't go into it too much. It only confuses the citizens, I see some MPs, some even confuse themselves. Let's make one logical assumption. Who would return the old foreign exchange savings that, in 2002, Mladjan Dinkic did not withdraw permission to work for banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Who would pay back that savings? These banks. Who took over the assets of the banks that went into bankruptcy and liquidated and placed them under their jurisdiction? Earlier, the Agency for the Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, and today the Deposit Insurance Agency. Is that a state body? Yes, it is. Because the property that was active and passive now belongs to that agency? They belong. Is the commitments the banks made during their business relevant to them by the Republic of Serbia? It's a match. So now we've made a legal order why we have one of these laws. If Dinkic hadn't withdrawn his license to work with those banks, we wouldn't have this law today. Absolutely not. The property of banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is not subject to succession. So it's the DKP, it's the then Yugoslav People's Army, the loans that have been drawn together, etc., etc., the receipts that have been shared, but the bank's business belongs to the headquarters, that is, the state where the bank is based. And the property of that bank wherever it is in the world belongs to the Republic of Serbia. Now, why is the deadline extending? As far as I can tell, that's the biggest problem. Well, because for various reasons. Other countries sabotage the implementation of this law, because the documentation that citizens prove to have really deposited with our banks whose branches were abroad is not issued by our institutions, but by the institutions of other states. Now, to make things even more interesting, that already old foreign savings was used for some other cash transactions. Our only wish is not to pay twice the same obligation. Nothing more. That everyone who hasn't charged that obligation for, to say one obstruction of former SFRY members can charge that claim for some time. It's nothing else. So, do we want to pay one debt twice? I don't. Do they meet the conditions prescribed by our law to pay off the old foreign currency savings? They don't meet. Is that why we're guilty? It's not our fault. It's not their fault, it's the side. Now let's take it and say no. What's next for us? New court proceedings because international courts' verdicts are stronger than domestic legislation. They'll say, okay, you passed the law, they couldn't comply, but now you have to pay for the damage. And again to enter other court proceedings, which we will most likely lose on the basis of, as the colleague says, the pilot of the verdicts, but that is why we will charge the good costs disproportionately to this obligation that we have, instead of 130m euros to pay, will be paid another 15 or 20m more because we were not able to implement the law, not by our own fault, but by the obstruction of former SFRY members.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58308	I thank my colleague Arsic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58309	So it wouldn't be what you think or what I think, that's why there's a right, so there's a science called economics. In order to reconcile both your opinions and my opinions, see what this is about, the court interpreted that every republic had its own national bank, the central bank, and even the provinces had a central bank. The very state of SFRY, which was called, had a central bank. There were nine central banks. (Alexander Martinovic: No, so how? What was her name? ) Yes, it is, since 1974, Mr. Martinovic, they are looking retroactively, it is. Now, look, how do they interpret? They say – everything invested in the Expositions of Invest Bank in Tuzla, especially foreign exchange funds, has benefited Serbia. Serbia argues it brings evidence that many funds, large funds, have been invested in, say, one of the companies in Tuzla, that they have benefited more from the citizens of Tuzla than the Invest Bank, rather than from Serbia. But what is their logic, they say – yes, but when the funds are deposited in an exposition of Invest Bank in Tuzla, those funds are carried to Belgrade. It's the same in the case of the Ljubljana bank. The Ljubljana Bank, or Slovenians, has attached documents, evidence that these funds have been returned to BiH. This is where Serbia cannot obtain valid documentation. No, in most cases these citizens who have been damaged, they have submitted what they have at their disposal, can't go on. Serbia cannot deliver that evidence, because it is key evidence, that Serbia has invested more literally, i.e. Invest Bank, than has withdrawn foreign funds. That's what this is about, and extending the deadline doesn't make any sense. If someone's possibly damaged, he's got a legal remedy. This is where we go, for incomprehensible reasons, to extend that deadline. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't, once an exception is made, you've seen once you give in to these hohstapplers internationally, they use it. The first time someone said Kosovo was an independent state, it had to react sharply. No, let go, so you saw that, give him a little finger, he wants a whole hand. So this right here, don't do it. It's our suggestion, we want to prevent it through this amendment. Enough was the deadline and Serbia has enough funds to pay for that foreign savings and complete the whole story. There's no reason to increase the six-month deadline so they can get the paperwork. Here, as the law and the reasoning of the law, i.e. by amending the law, these are cases related to the lawsuit against BiH, Serbia and Slovenia. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58310	I thank my colleague Mircic. Legally on the line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58311	Now, banks, and even in SFRY, have done business based on some, let me say, market and economic principles. How did Invest Bank invest in Tuzlo? She was giving credit. I guess your loans are back. Whether or not they were nominated for central bank policy or not, I don't want to go into it, but they had to be returned in any way. Now, if we interpret how the applicant of the amendment is saying, it means that these banks that were operating in the territory outside the Republic of Serbia and based in the Republic of Serbia, that we have this property that banks have outside of Serbia, we should give to those countries where that property is located. That's what it comes down to. I guess not. But we can't ask for something that suits us without accepting what doesn't suit us. It can't be like that. So, here, I'm always going back to that beginning of my previous exposure, what if these banks hadn't been granted a work permit? These citizens could come with savings books or some other evidence anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and say, "I want you to pay me my foreign savings." And it has to be worth it. No protests, no possibility of obstruction. Moreover, we would not have to wait for the judgments of international courts, but would regulate even domestic courts. That's the difference how we look at solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58312	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58313	Just for the public. This judgment was reached before the Sucession Agreement. If they had been wise, smart, resourceful, resourceful, those who had conducted these negotiations could have gotten to the very agreement on succession, so all of this would have entered into that conflict agreement. That's how Croatia did it. And now it's a matter of succession, a conflict agreement. And here we are talking about something that was before the signing of the conflict agreement. "Investbank" was abolished in 2002. Its obligations have been taken over by Serbia, the state. As the "Ljubljanska Banka" initially took over Slovenia and later "New Ljubljanska Banka". As the "Zagrebačka Banka" took over Croatia. But everyone succeeded, except for "Ljubljanska" and "Investbanka" to be the matter of a conflict agreement. And now you're doing something that in any case confirms our conjecture. You here point out that private property should be respected and rights acquired. So is the court who reached the verdict. What will you do tomorrow when individuals exercise their right to the same or similar court in matters of pensions? You want to do the same thing? You'll have to do it. It's acquired law, it's private property. Someone who put foreign currency in the bank, that's his. Someone who used to pay through the pension fund, that's his. That's the same thing. Then what are you going to do? Whoever can't get the paperwork, you'll be six months, no need, let's argue about an additional deadline for getting the documentation. Serbia cannot escape its obligations, it is 130 million of these 8,000 people. Maybe everybody has the paperwork, maybe they don't. Whoever doesn't has will not be paid. That's what this is about. That's the argument. And now you're making the point that we're Serbian radicals against, and you're in. We are against the EU, joining the EU, but we must respect the currents and principles of modern civilization, especially when it comes to legal norms. (President: I thank you. But you say precedent. He can come back as a boomerang.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58314	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58315	Here, so no matter how many times I say it, a bank that has a registered head office in Serbia cannot be subject to a succession because it is the property of the Republic of Serbia. The property of the Republic of Serbia, wherever there are branches, is the property of the Republic of Serbia. If any branches were out of SFRY territory, whose property would that be? It's the Republic of Serbia again. The bank would not belong to a third country that did not participate in the SFRY, but to the Republic of Serbia. So, let's get this straight. Don't ask hypothetical questions that much. We have one verdict here and not only Slovenia is sued, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not sued, among other things, the Republic of Croatia and Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia. And everyone will have to, everyone, pay off their share of the commitment on this matter. Let me just say, how much longer they looked at it then, the cash flows of the former SFRY member. Namely, if you wanted some goods to customs when entering the country, and you have quality documentation, that you have deposited in the federal budget of the SFRY customs from, say, the base bank of Pogorec, that Slovenian customs did not recognise it at the time. That's how it went. The only way for these citizens to be compensated is this one. But we expect other members of the former SFRY to do the same. Because that would be the right way of bearing responsibility for everything that happened in that period. And one more thing - I'm absolutely sure they'll have to do it. Is with this law, is it with someone else, have some already done, as far as I hear, it seems to me that they are and are even faster than we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58316	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58317	This is where we're going round and round. It's all regulated by the conflict agreement, all of it. All of what you're saying is regulated by the agreement. This is a special case, where the court orders, the court defines, the court sets deadlines, all court works. An agreement has been signed on the settlement of the obligations on succession. Macedonia has proved to the court that all its commitments have been settled by its banks. As for the SFRY itself, the legal successor of the SFRY is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Serbia-Montenegro community. The conflict agreement also includes a partial balance between the two republics, the federal unit of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. One belongs to Serbia, the other belongs to Montenegro. But Serbia took the most of it, because it was some logic of things. That's how she signed the agreement. And now you're mixing each other. It's all regulated by the concession agreement, only this is about a court ruling. Bosnia and Herzegovina has claimed that it has no obligations because it is an "Investbank" exposure, as it claimed it has no obligations because it is an "Ljubljanska Banka" exposure, and now it is all left to the republics, which Serbia has insisted on for a time and said -- people, so give territorially to republics, whether it is a headquarters or an exposition, but in republics. Because the logic of things -- more of the bank invested in that area than it got a foreign currency, or benefit from what it had. That's how every bank goes by logic. To simply put an end to it, that's why the conflict agreement regulated everything. This is from the time it's not the deal, it's your Vienna deal. So you now have in the procedure the government announces, now it announces to you the government that Serbia's debt to Slovakia will be discussed. It's the same thing that came out of the succession, the same thing. It doesn't make any difference, but it's defined now. It's just that here's the problem of explaining why you've been leaving these six months to additional documentation... It doesn't move the deadline, it's just the number of months, nothing more. What you're saying is that twice it wouldn't be the same, it doesn't drink water, it's not convincing. You know, that's not the reason, that's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58318	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Here you are, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. You can pick up the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58319	There's a lot of things here that I don't agree with Mr. Mircic, they have nothing to do with any ideology. It's simple, the fact that certain things aren't true is my understanding of things. First, it is not true that according to the 1974 Constitution, every republic, or autonomous province, had its own central bank, is not true. The SFRJ constitution was disastrous, the 1974 constitution, primarily according to the Republic of Serbia and primarily by the Serb people in general. But according to the 1974 federal constitution, there was only one central bank, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina did not have their own national banks, until the former Yugoslav republics were left alone. That's one thing. The second thing, since you're already pointing us to reading the reasons, is that it's nice to you, and that's on the first page of the argument, the start of payment is in six months. So the payoff starts in six months. But what is important is for Serbian citizens to hear – why this law is passed. That, too, is written in an explanation. In the process of verification of foreign savings, the Ministry of Finance and the Public Debt Administration met with a number of problems related to obtaining the necessary evidence of the prescribed law and correct determination of the situation of things, and the biggest problem is to issue certificates from the competent authorities of the former republics of the SFRY, that the foreign savings have not been granted on the basis of foreign savings, since in some of the former republics of the SFRY savings were able to exercise their right under foreign savings. So, the problem arises in Slovenia, the problem arises, first of all, in Croatia, because their competent authorities did not issue foreign savings certificates and then the Republic of Serbia had to resort to the law. Even if there is no European Court of Human Rights ruling, even if we ignore it, we have one objective situation that many citizens of the Republic of Serbia originating in Croatia, I will come to a concession, they cannot exercise their right because they cannot obtain documentation, because they are having a problem with the competent authorities, above all, the Republic of Croatia. That's what we agreed on. As for the succession, there are, Mr. Mircic, two problems. We Serbs, when I tell me Serbs, now that sounds a little pathetic, but we have two visions of succession, until 2000 and after 2000. By 2000, the government, whatever it was, had a perfectly correct view that the only legal follower of the former SFRY was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It's a perfectly, in a legally theoretical sense, correct attitude. What happened at the end of 2000? The new government, a dosovska, led by Vojislav Kostunica, is seeking the admission of the SRJ to the UN as a new state, not as an old state, SFRJ's successor, but as a completely new state and places itself in the ranks of Slovenia, Croatia, BiH and Macedonia. Right? So we had two views of the succession of the former SFRY until 2000 and after 2000. By 2000, it was legally theoretically correct that the countries that remained in Yugoslavia, which are Serbia-Montenegro, which formed the SRJ that only they could be legal followers of the former SFRY since 2000, and based on that, the 2001 Sucession Agreement was concluded in Vienna. Right? All former Yugoslav republics, and those who rose to arms against Yugoslavia, including Croatia, become Successors of the SFRY, so now Croatia, which armedly seceded from Yugoslavia, which has banished tens and hundreds of thousands of Serbs, has committed numerous crimes, which are now being washed, will not burn the word Yugoslavia, if you follow the Croatian media only repeat one and the same flossule - the former state. They're so disgusted by Yugoslavia. But why aren't they disgusted? They are not disgusted by the international agreements concluded by the SFRY. They're superfluous and international agreements. They're the co-excessors of one part of our diplomatic consular offices, embassies and consulates, they're successors of the gold reserves that the former SFRY had deposited with foreign banks, etc. So that's where we agreed, can you and I, who think the same thing about the problem of ex-SFRJ succession, be able to get things back to 2000 or 2001? Unfortunately, we can't. Those who are not here, these plebes and people who have caused us enormous damage, they are, someone sold them a candle horn, that they will do well for political, economic, financial reasons if they accept the thesis, which is not true, that SRJ is a new state. Then at the end of 2000, they asked for a reception and we were admitted to the UN, but as a new state. Then, as a consequence, in June 2001, we gather together, the former Yugoslav Republic, and the Agreement on Sucession is concluded in Vienna. Right? Under the Agreement on Sucession, all the co-excessors of the former Yugoslavia, not only Serbia-Montenegro, but also Slovenia and Croatia and BiH and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and now Montenegro, which has remained on its own since 2006. Who's to blame? Neither do you, nor I. No SRS, no SNS. It is those who are not present today, who have not consistently insisted on the the thesis that the supercession of the state cannot be the one who broke away from the same state. That's the problem. We're having a bit of a pointless fight with each other now, and neither are you, nor are we responsible for the situation we've been in. Now, where's our trouble? When I say our troubles, I mean those of us who are in power right now? We theoretically agree that the Sucession Agreement is bad, but we can't undo it now. This agreement has been signed, this agreement has been ratified and we as a serious state must act under that agreement. That's one thing. Secondly, we have to act on the European Court of Human Rights' ruling and when it comes to us and when it does not go into our favour, because the European Court of Human Rights is being led by a number of disputes between our people, particularly from Croatia and BiH, who are suing, not only for foreign exchange savings, to leave foreign exchange savings aside, on the subject of many other property rights, which sue Croatia and BiH, because in Croatia and BiH, as their dominant states, could not exercise their human rights on property, so they had to address the European Court of Human Rights. To the truth, and we must admit that, in many cases, the European Court of Human Rights has proved to be a very correct court instance and has accepted a number of complaints from our people, Serbs from Croatia, BiH who have sued the former Yugoslav states. So when you observe this verdict, don't look at it separately from other proceedings conducted before the European Court of Human Rights because there are also procedures led by our people, Serbs, against Croatia and BiH. You know very well, as I do, I don't have to tell you much about how much trouble there is with solving property housing and other rights of Serbs who have lost their property, better said their property was taken from both Croatia and BiH, that is, in the territory of the Federation of BiH. So we need to be very careful when it comes to this European Court of Human Rights and to accept what is not in our favor, but also to accept what is in our favor, because there are material rights in various areas of civil law against Croatia and BiH as prosecutors. Of course, all of this is due to a poorly negotiated agreement on succession, that we are not talking about that, even to this day, Croatia has not respected Annex G's 2001 conflict agreement and pretends that like this Annex G does not exist. People, our people, expelled from Croatia and the Krajina, can't even exercise their property rights today in front of the relevant institutions from Croatia because Croatia simply says, we don't care about the conflict agreement, we're one of the former SFRY supersects anyway, and in the meantime we became a member of the EU, we became a member of the NATO Pact and we can do what we want. Then our man, a Serb, a martyr from Croatia, from Bania, Kordun, Dalmatia, doesn't matter where, there's no one else, no one else to turn to, he knocked on the door of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and there he's trying to exercise some of his rights. This law, in my opinion, gives wind to these things, because as Alisic succeeded in his procedure, we hope that various Markovici, Stojanovici, Nikolici, Mirčići, Martinovici and so on from Croatia and BiH will succeed in their actions before the European Court of Human Rights because their rights could not be exercised in the courts in Croatia, or in the courts in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58320	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58321	This is just about what a special law or amendment of law will have to do, what we agreed to bring. It means that they too can move that deadline because they cannot get the necessary documentation from Croatia and the former republics of Yugoslavia. There's nothing disputed about that. But, look, Mr. Martinovic, here the court issued a verdict, the pilot of the verdict, even ordered that Sakibu Shahdanovic be paid 4,000 euros, in the name of immaterial damage, which was paid to him by Serbia. So these are the exceptions that happened when it comes to the lawsuit against Serbia, BiH and all in order. What is quite right, which is that those representing Serbia did not find it appropriate to oppose such a verdict, because they were members of the Council, members of the Commission, even for a similar, representative of Slovenia, again I tell you, the representative of Slovenia left the session of the Commission, and said – it was out of his mind, or already someone who gave an explanation, left the session. Serbia was led by a set that she felt was pro-European, that it should be so. For this reason alone, we say more cautiously – who collected the documentation, collected it. It should be paid on the basis of valid documentation. Serbia has a problem with proving that more "Investbank" has invested than it has benefited. There is a big problem, because it denies the BiH authorities, because they hide the documentation. Some paperwork's gone awry. Who knows what kind of deals are made. Who knows what kind of deals are made before the Investment Bank closes. Dinkic was tasked with literally destroying all banks, preparing the ground for foreign banks to enter. That was his mission. It's been a misunderstanding ever since. I hear some kind of build-up there on the other side, but that's negligible compared to this argument that you've made. When I say that some people are glad, unfortunately, I do not want to spend time with people who are not present, but today they still use Pavelic's coins in their pronunciation. So much for that overnight heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58322	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58323	Really, I won't answer my word again. I think this shows how useful the discussion in parliament is, and it turns out that there are some things we agree on, some things we disagree on. I continue to represent the view that this law is in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this law is also in favour of those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who became so after 1995. This is clearly seen from the reasoning of this bill why this law is passed, because citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot obtain valid documentation from the authorities, particularly the Republic of Croatia, and from the BiH authorities, or more specifically from the Federation of BiH. So these people don't get in trouble if they lose their right by law, because someone else is guilty, we're in a position to pass this law. That's why I think it's important for this law to be passed. That's one thing. I repeat again, this is like an inheritance to you, like an heirloom. Many think that when inherited, you inherit only rights, inherit obligations. Not only do you inherit apartments, houses, fields, cars, if it exists in the property mass of the abandoner, but you inherit his obligations, his obligations to the creditors, his obligations to the state, his obligations to the public enterprises, etc. So, like inheritance, you inherit rights and obligations. Now, you're saying someone else on behalf of the Republic of Serbia has misstepped in front of the European Court of Human Rights. I agree with that, but what do we do now? Because someone misrepresented the Republic of Serbia, we now say - we will not follow the European Court of Human Rights' ruling. This should be a lesson to us in future how all those representing the Republic of Serbia should behave in front of international institutions, especially in front of international judicial and arbitration institutions, because we will have a lot of problems like this. After all, this may not have a direct connection right now, but it has some connection to understand and understand, and many have asked Alexander Vukic – why Serbia does not counter measures so-called. Kosovo, due to their introduction of a 100 per cent taxi customs on goods coming from central Serbia. We would easily impose counter measures on Kosovo if 100% Albanians lived in Kosovo, but when we introduce counter measures in Kosovo, you introduce countermeasures to Serbs from the Zubi stream, from all other municipalities in northern Kosovo and from all other municipalities where Serbs live as majority people. In that sense, you need to be very careful about things like this. Some things when it comes to international judicial institutions go into service, some of them don't contribute, some of you are guilty, some of you aren't guilty, but when you're responsible for the state, then you have to act on something that you personally think is unfair, but simply, the verdict was made, the conflict agreement was signed in 2001, the verdict was made when it was made, we're in a situation that we have to act on it. I wish there was more sense in those who were in power by 2012. Unfortunately, it wasn't, it shows more in these cases. We are now in a situation where we have to pay back those debts that they have made to us, not only in financial terms, but in both political and state law and in each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58324	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to supplement what you said at the beginning of your presentation, I'd take the opportunity. Not only is the debate useful, but it is also constructive, but this debate is also a confirmation that no one wants in the National Assembly to prevent a democratic debate and a democratic conflict of opinion. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58325	Here's the thing. We, moving slowly over some of the things that are very important to Serbia, have come to the situation to raise their voice again to highlight Serbia's criminal role in everything that happened in the 1990s. Quite an amazing situation. The international court in The Hague brings the precedent that Serbia is not involved, as they said in the BiH crime. In BiH, however, they remain still. What's their foundation now? Now they're based on Srebrenica. If proven and Serbia accepts that there was genocide in Srebrenica, that way Serbia will bring itself into trouble, because genocide could not be committed if no organisation is behind it, if the state does not stand. The only state that has functioned is Serbia. We are interpreting everything - we need to go to the heart of international law, decisions by international courts, a line of less resistance, and we have come to the situation that even with KIM the sharps of terrorists are calling for a lawsuit against Serbia, because a crime has been committed in the KIM area. Not to mention Croatia, whose official representatives are using every opportunity to highlight the extent of the crime. And then we go by logic -- that's known, that's understood, that's for peace, for some tolerance, for seeking compromise. Guys, there's a lot of serious stuff here. It's not what we're discussing right now, it's not chalk size, but we have to take care of it. We go over it all and say, "Here, another six months, let them get the paperwork." No, the legal deadline is up, Serbia will pay off its commitments, as will this. It's all over. We don't have a process in restitution, that's what Mr. Martinovic says. It is not possible to remain silent, the Serbs are not returned to the property, the return and proof of property rights in Croatia is disputed, and we are silent, we say – never mind, we are tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58326	Thank you, colleague Mircic. By amendment, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58327	Dear People's MPs, before this session, I had a meeting with a part of the savings from the "Yugobank" of ours here, so to speak, Serbia, which was central and "Yugobank", Split branch, Knin, and now, in practice, I will show and encourage and save ours for this law. I must say, in 1997, Croatia, immediately after the war, called, to say, some time period of six months to return the savings to the old foreign currency savings. This was about savings, not according to nationality, Serbs and Croats. Since the Serbs, the war, being expelled, did not stand a chance of coming to Knin personally in the branch and asking for their foreign currency savings, and all Croats and one part of the Serbs who remained in Croatia raised that foreign currency savings. This amendment to the law waits 18 years, to say the citizens of Serbian nationality who lived in Croatia, because they did not get paid by the central "Yugobank", nor is Croatia in that time, because it has been six months, and you know that from 1995 to 1997 five Serbs have returned. So these are the circumstances, and Croatia has returned all the old foreign savings to its citizens, regardless. That's the problem. This was objective, let's say, and perhaps subjective, but let's be a broad, objective problem that's long been waiting. I personally spoke with former ministers and governors here to try in some way the most endangered part of the Serbian people who have been saving for years for their children, to be educated somewhere, etc. They've lost it. So these are the citizens, when it comes to "Yugobanka" Belgrade, i.e. "Yugobanka" Split, a subsidiary of Knin. Therefore, they will receive their old foreign savings afterwards. It is true, Mr. Martinovic, that they could have just received the certificates in December 2018, although our ministry has called for the search to save a year earlier. So, for objective reasons, they couldn't file... I talked to them the other day, but I followed that up on our ministry's website, they couldn't, so it's part of it that they're really going to collect the paperwork in the next six months. In particular, it refers to those ‘unlucky’ war fighters on the lines, whose booklets are not left and other documentation. Now it's going at a fast pace. I was informed immediately today that it is going that the agency for the entire Croatia area is in Split and that it is going really quickly and I think it will lead to a certain solution. Thank you very much. Honorable saves, I address you, you will win the first war on 28.02.2020, instead of the old law on 01.09 this year. It's been six months, but your deadline has been reduced not to five years, but to four years. So many of our countries have really come out to meet to cut short because they have been compensated for this very most vulnerable part of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58328	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) Comrade Mircic, you have come forward, but you have not been mentioned during the presentation of your colleague Atlagic. You'll get your word, but please respect two minutes to finally move on to the next amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58329	Just so I don't forget, Mr. Martinovic, the last governor of Vojvodina National Bank was Dr. Vojislav White, if you didn't know. The National Bank of Vojvodina was abolished in 1989. You even have a complete printing that stayed there as a historical relic. Yes, every province had a national bank and every republic had a national bank. (Alexander Martinovic: What is printed? ) Whether or not she printed it, but it was the foundation of future independence for both Vojvodina and Kosovo. When you have an independent monetary system, you prepare the ground. So what were the Vojvodina Development Bank preparing for you to be eventually the Vojvodina National Bank? As for what we discussed when it comes to the rights of those who lived in Croatia, Croatia has served here with this fraud. In the 1990s, they said, "Come, we will give you back your old foreign savings." Who could have come to Croatia then? Then in front of the international community, in this case, the court has shown that all those who came forward have returned. You know, it's not convenient to compare now, but when those cheaters sell tickets for something that won't be held, then they say everyone who wants their money back, so they get an address where no one can find it. There's 10% of them. Croatia has served precisely with this tick and now has to return, but we would like this to refer to citizens living in Croatia, but this is done specifically by the court's verdict and it is 8,000 people from BiH. They're asking the Invest Bank. That's what this is about. We would, and that is ultimately Serbia's obligation, to allow these people, too, if they can obtain documentation. Thank you. I don't want to talk about this anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58330	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58331	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm acting on my mind, since there are two Rules of Procedures, one for me, one for the others, to take this on behalf of my colleagues' dialogue. Democracy is a procedure. If I decide to advertise the Rules of Procedure, I could have done it 30, 40, 50 times. That's the least the Rules of Procedure has ever been hurt. What to say on this subject in the state, and today is the day my grandfathers lost the commander who was shot. He wasn't the only one whose property was taken. Over 70,000 people were shot in Serbia. It's not just the Serbian uncle that needs to be mourned. It is necessary to mourn all victims, regardless of ideology, especially those who have suffered and lost their lives, property, and those who have lost their lives, their heirs have lost their property. In a country where the kidnapping was carried out on several grounds of private property, in a country defined as democracy, the right of property should be sacred law. We have not yet returned the property of those who have been shot, the property of those whose property has been seized cruelly. I'll give you an example of Sima Paunovic from Surduk. There were no Chetniks in Srem. There were only partisans on our side, unfortunately, on that other Ustasha and the Germans. The man was hiding more partisans in his salash. At the end of the war, those he hid and fed shot him as a high-level owner. The property has not been returned to the legal followers, or heirs, to this day. In a country where we haven't returned the property kidnapped by terror, we are talking with too much bile today about the sacred rights of some other people on savings. They have lost both savings and resources for work, machinery, fields, facilities etc. They lost their lives, too. Today is the day some of them were shot by a commander. How did all this happen, we didn't punish that either? A state that has no power to punish the abduction of private property, the loss of human lives, its perspective will not be bright, nor the future. Let us see how this injustice has arisen, that we do not discuss ping-pong, Croats - Serbs, Croats - Serbs. counterpart Atlagic, to correct that, said that here one third of the MPs recognise Kosovo and Metohija, I recognise Kosovo and Metohija, I recognise Kosovo and Metohija. He used the term, here one third acknowledges Kosovo and Metohija, to correct it, I recognise Kosovo and Metohija as the southern Serbian province. Albanians don't admit it. He probably wanted to say that there are a number of MPs who recognize the wild state of Kosovo, the wild NATO state, the NATO base, probably meant it, so I want to correct it this way. Perhaps one day I like the accession of Albania to our southern province, and it is time for Serbia to go to sea, neither guilty nor debtor. Serbia will diverge with Albanians, the only question is when, with what means and on which line. So because Albania's accession to Kosovo and Metohija, to our southern province, Serbia will go out to sea, it will contribute to Serbia's cold, or Albanians will move to Switzerland, Austria, etc. because of their lack of property, they will go away, so the economy of the Serbian state should rise and property rights should be respected. I started, how did we get to this? Well, nice. In 1998/99. in parliament, and there are MPs here who were then, because of inflation and smuggling cigarettes, oil and everything, I said that all countries have criminals, only in Serbia, then in the SRJ, criminals have their own state. I also said that they should return the kidnapped property during inflation and smuggling, to return it to Serbia. I was wrong. Part of the capital was returned to Serbia, to raise it again, to buy a far greater value for that part of the money in the assets of various businesses. In order to get to the company, because the line of debts goes like this, the state has foreign savings, the state has debts to foreign banks and funds, it spreads through business banks, the business banks place it in the economy, and you liquidate the largest banks, when you liquidate them, you practically do the following -- you come to the property, which you will privatise, and you leave the debts and debts to the foreign savings to the people. The people's debts, foreign exchange savings and corporate debts, and the robbers of companies where they fit their functions with private businesses, their own and their tycoons. Just to remind you, the one who bought the sugar cane for three euros in Kovacica has 20m euros in sugar, he was DS Finance Director Miodrag Kostic. If it's not true, someone here can correct me. So that's how all these debts came into play and today the debts of companies and foreign debt are paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and even those born after the break-up of the SFRY because the economy, if it had remained owned by banks, would have sold the companies, would have paid back the debts and filled the foreign savings, and the citizens would have remained clean. However, a group of robbers, for whom Alibaba and 40 robbers, such as Mother Teresa, have solved quite differently. That was our problem, and in order not to spoil your break, I'm going to move on under some other amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58332	I thank my colleague Rističević. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, honourable Members of the People, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58333	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58334	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, in the first part of the session, the citizens had the opportunity to hear who was responsible for this situation in which we were found as a state. Mr. Martinovic reasoned on these facts and explained how it came today that instead of banks, Serbia is paying off old foreign exchange savings, which is why we are here today discussing this law that will be compensated for citizens who are damaged. This member of the law to which these amendments have been submitted shall, on the one hand, extend the time limit for the submission of the documents in order to exercise the right to pay off the old foreign savings, and on the other hand, reduce the time limit for the payment of the foreign savings. So, the state of Serbia is telling this member - we will pay the old foreign savings in a shorter period than originally planned. That means the state now has money in the budget. Let us not forget that this stage, in which the country's inherited obligations are being served much more conveniently than before, came with reforms and policies that we, as SNS, presented to citizens in the elections and won convincingly. We have fulfilled our promise, because we have measures of fiscal consolidation and responsible economic policy and have reached a GDP that was minus 3.1 and today is plus 4.5, and to surpluses in the budget and all capital investments carried out in Serbia, to increase wages and pensions, which are continuing. We'll have another salary and pension increase by the end of this year. Serbia is recovering, though much money goes to debts made by the former regime. I must point out that the SNS policy has reached the historic minimum that Serbia is in charge of today. Expensive loans, taken by predecessors, with a 7.25 interest, we converted to very favourable ones, with an interest of 1.61%. It means that these financial institutions are secure in the growth and development of the Serbian economy and have confidence in this government, and that the businessmen who open their factories here, too, do not forget that it is companies that plan their business in the long term. So Serbia must continue in this direction to develop and progress so that the recovery can feel every single person in this country. It would be, of course, much faster, but here, you see, we have to pay back the debts we inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58335	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58336	We suggest that this Article 2 does not change for the simple reason that Article 14 of the Law is all defined and there is no need for any addition or any changes. In addition, it is clear that debts and debt obligations are met by legal followers. There shouldn't be any more complications here. This means, if the bank is in bankruptcy or if it is already liquidated, then the legal follower is either some other institution or, ultimately, the state, the central bank assumes those obligations. So, for this reason, we suggest that the SRS delete this addition of Article 14 which is examined in Article 2. It's not the order, it's why something that's excess is essentially, why supplement it, why supplement the law when it's in itself precise whose obligations are to pay off the foreign savings or savings in banks whose headquarters is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58337	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58338	I do not think that this member should be deleted, because this article is added to Article 14(3), which provides that in the event that the bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings over the bank with which the foreign savings were lodged, then, at the request of the Public Debt Administration, the Deposit Insurance Agency shall provide available data on foreign savings deposits in these banks, and on the basis of documentation from the central archive of the Agency. I think that this new attitude certainly makes sense and that it goes in favour of those citizens that make this law possible. There is a Deposit Insurance Agency in the Republic of Serbia. It has all the data related to savings and those banks that are active and those banks where bankruptcy or liquidation took place. I think it's quite logical that this position remains in this bill, because on the one hand, it benefits the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so there is no longer any dilemma about whether or not they can obtain available data, and on the other hand, I think it makes it easier to work and public debt management, because it specifies which institution is competent to ask for data from it. Mr. Mircic here said that in his opinion it should be asked of the NBS, which I think is not right, because the NBS is not by definition the successor of any business bank. The National Bank of Serbia has its special status in our monetary system, it is not a business bank. We are here talking about business banks that are either in bankruptcy proceedings, or in liquidation proceedings, or the process is already closed. The National Bank of Serbia, according to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in case a business bank goes into bankruptcy or liquidation is not automatically the successor of that bank, but it is regulated by special regulations, and this is the data held by the banks in bankruptcy, or liquidation, or the procedure has been completed, and this job is not done by the National Bank of Serbia, but is done by the Deposit Insurance Agency, so I think it is good that the government has simply explained which institution is responsible for delivering available data, the Public Debt Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58339	The word is Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58340	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, so I also see no reason to delete Article 2, because it explains in fact the doubt and makes it easier for the Ministry of Finance, in fact the Public Debt Administration, to register and find the exact amount that is owed on this basis. For example, the deposit of savings in different currencies has been converted into euro, according to the mid-term exchange rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia's exchange rate on 1 January 2002. Now the liabilities to foreign savings are executed by the conversion of savings roles, as we have already discussed, into depreciation bonds, by the fact that the Deposit Insurance Agency is a bankruptcy trustee of banks, where bankruptcy is ended and the amount of claims is determined. That's why I think this member should be left behind. Obligations have been recalculated by the conversion of savings roles and conversions of different currencies in which foreign exchange savings are made in euro are carried out in inter-currency relations with the medium rate of dinars in the course list on 1 January 2002. The funds necessary for the implementation of this law shall be provided by the Republic of Serbia in the budget, i.e. The Ministry of Finance - Public Debt Administration and it is very difficult to build our house for Serbia without starting from a healthy, solid foundation, but we started from the basement. I have repeatedly said in my previous statements that our task is not easy at all, because we are also paying back the accumulated debts, and we are also developing the country. Our Ministry of Finance, headed by Mr. Sinish Mali, is doing a great job and citizens of Serbia need to be calm, because we will not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58341	The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58342	When you insist on this precision, there are clear data available to the Agency, i.e. the Administration. In 1991, the amount of the old foreign exchange savings "Invest Bank", the Tuzla branch, was $67m. That's about 100 million marks. The exposure was closed on June 1st 1992. That's the relevant information. In this case, Shahdanovic vs. Serbia, he specifically had a personal foreign exchange savings of 63,880 marks, four Austrian shillings and 73 dollars. That's the relevant data. These are the data available to the Administration and the Agency. If you insist, both this law and these provisions of the law allow for a clear and precise record of what is available, for which there is data. That's the information the Agency has on you. It is in the material, related to the attached documentation, in court, and on the basis of which the court made a decision and, as I said, to pay up to 4,000 euros, imagine, for immaterial costs. So all those fears, the trauma he survived, whatever they know that 20 years couldn't be used, couldn't be used because of the wars, because of sanctions, etc., but there's a record. Why is there a record? It can be proven, so it's accurate data. I said, it's clear, as my colleague Martinovic would say, it doesn't matter, but in our opinion, the Serbian radicals, in any case, it's too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58343	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58344	In this particular case, Mr. Mircic, you know exactly what the amount of deposited foreign savings is, but what we're going to do in situations where there's doubt, then someone has to resolve that suspicion. I believe that this suspicion is removed by this new position 3, which is added in Article 14, where the Public Debt Administration is left to contact the Deposit Insurance Agency in the event that the bankruptcy or winding-up procedure is carried out. I want to take this opportunity to point out once again to you, and that we need to look at this problem a little wider, outside of a concrete verdict by Alisic and others against these five former Yugoslav republics, because in many situations, Serbian and Serbian citizens who have become such ones since 1995, and originating in the territory of Croatia and BiH, have an objective problem in proving that they have had a total deposited foreign savings and how much is that amount. I think this new attitude added to Article 14 is absolutely in their favor. Otherwise, he doesn't mind the structure, the legal system, and he can only benefit the citizens from solving specific cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58345	The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58346	As we spread the story, we are truly more afraid that the vampire Ustasha government in Croatia, based on false accusations against Serbia, does not use the property of Serbs that remained in Croatia as a reconciliation of some of their claims. What is the international community's position? It doesn't take much to explain. In any case, they will take advantage of any opportunity to put additional pressure on Serbia, and the damage to the Serbs who suffered in Croatia, which hurts the West to care for Serbs from Croatia. They say the genocide is in Srebrenica, and it is not a war crime that has expelled hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Serbs. It is something that is real fear when we speak and spread the story and ultimately refers to the republics of the former Yugoslavia. Serbia is always there for someone to suffer. The additional fear is with this policy that's being led, politics doesn't understand our tolerances. There's one tolerance limit, but every 13th deputy 14th secretary who comes in here shakes up in Serbia, doesn't care what he says, speaks plainly. Here, even the ambassador, the one they're writing in the material like Scott, and in fact he's Scott, because if he wasn't a bastard, how could these bastards, which he introduced, otherwise they could be called? He even allows himself, as an ambassador, as an official of a state, regardless of what is powerful and strong America, to speak publicly in front of both students and the public that Kosovo is an independent state, and imagine what kind of attitude only individual ambassadors will be when an account or account is delivered that Serbia will compensate for the damages. It's simply going to be a compensation of property. That's what we're afraid of. Do not let God come, but there is a vampire Ustasha government, Kolinda is a larger Ustasha than all, she is not far away and foreign, that one day they may think to say – the property left over by Serbs will compensate, conditionally speaking, for the damage they have done to Serbia. They have no other expression for Serbia, but for aggressors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58347	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58348	I think we should be honest and say that for both America and France and Germany, Kosovo has been an independent state since February 2008. So, none of these people you specifically mentioned, including Ambassador Scott, are there now some new policy of the United States. It is a policy that has unfortunately been current since 2008. What can the Republic of Serbia do in this situation? We can try what Alexander Vucic is doing, we can conduct difficult, difficult talks and with these powerful Western states about achieving some compromise solution for KIM in the sense that Serbia does not lose everything to KIM, to get something, which I think is the only real policy at this point. The second alternative is, but simply in my opinion, Serbia is not capable of that policy to apply that German Halstein doctrine. It's the doctrine of the Federal Republic of Germany in the 50s that we automatically interrupt diplomatic relations with every country that recognises the independence of KIM. This was done by the Federal Republic of Germany with every state that recognised the existence of a democratic People's Republic of Germany, that is, what we called East Germany. That was Halstein's doctrine. So, as soon as you recognize East Germany, and the Western Germans treated it as a Soviet occupation zone with that country, you interrupt diplomatic relations. The Federal Republic of Germany could afford it because it had extremely powerful allies behind it. First of all, Germany is one of the founders of the European Economic Community, later it entered the NATO Pact, and it could allow itself such a policy. Serbia cannot afford such a policy at this time, as much as it hurts us all, as it hurts you, both me and all other SNS colleagues when anyone, any ambassador, any president of the state, any government president, any official of any foreign state, KIM treats as a foreign state, as an independent state. We cannot win the battle for KIM by opening a war with America or by banning the ambassadors of US, French, German from Belgrade, we must lead one wise, responsible and rational policy, which is also to try to explain to these powerful Western states that it is not realistic that Serbia is asked for recognition of Kosovo's independence, as a final solution, and on the other hand we must take care of our economic co-operation with these countries, because the interruption of diplomatic relations and any tightening, conditionalally speaking, the relationship with these countries can be extremely harmful to the Serbian economy. There is no strong Serbia without a strong Serbian economy, and on the other hand strong Serbia is needed, primarily for Serbs who have remained to live on KIM, so that all these things are complementary to each other, they are connected both to the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia and how they count. When you're head of the state, when you're Minister of Government, when you're Prime Minister, then you have no right to lead state policy against your own personal feelings and against your own personal emotions. You have to run that policy that is realistic, which is realistic and which is in the interest of the state, however hard it is for you to listen to certain attitudes that do not suit you and which are contrary at the end to the official views of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58349	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58350	You know, like many, the essence of one state's leadership among other things is patience. Something that means waiting for a moment when you can really get into a situation where you change things, or affect their changes. We've been in a situation for the last decades, you're right, when we couldn't, because we didn't have allies powerful and strong, to point out to officials like ambassadors their inappropriate behavior, to their changes. Of course, they are officials, and they remain the same regardless of the country they represent. They're ambassadors. It's done through the Foreign Ministry and it's something that's up. Patience involves knowing that there must be a regrouping on the world's political scene, the sea. There was a lot of times when America was dominant. You see for yourself and the public of Serbia knows that from day to day, the position of both China and Russia is growing. Russia especially because it is a traditional, friendly country that favours Serbia. With the West, you cannot play with Americans by praising you that you are a modern politician, that you are the future of Serbia and that the Serbian people see perspective in you. They're, like, old cheaters. Whom they praised, they praised him until the moment they benefited from him personally. Boris Tadic was praised for being the most beautiful leader in the world, for being smart. We all knew, maybe this was the first one, but the second one is impossible to ask of that man. When they used it, they threw it like paper, toilet paper. That's how they do it. It should take advantage of the moment when Russia is strong enough and Serbia can then demand changes and can expect benefits with Russia. Now, while America is still dominant on Kosovo, there is no need to rush on the principle of history starting with me and it will end with me. We are the only set of politicians who can solve the Kosovo issue. No, the issue of Kosovo has been since the battle in Kosovo, if not earlier and the issue is always open. God asks you how long it will be open, but it should wait for a favourable political moment when Russia stands at full capacity behind Serbia. After all, something needs to be learned from that history.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58351	Thank you. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58352	That's another question our two parties disagree on. You are not the only ones who think that Serbia is not supposed to work more or less on KIM at this point, but that we should wait for the relationship of forces to change in the world, so as you say, Russia is strong enough, and then the KIM problem will be solved. We have a slightly different opinion, we believe that an active policy on the subject of KIM, that there is no room and no time to wait, because a conflict that is currently conditionedly frozen can be quickly defrosted, and the defrosting of conflicts means that Serbian citizens would understand, above all, the entry of Albanians into municipalities that are with the Serb majority on KIM. That's the kind of community in KIM you have 10. It's not just four municipalities in the north. In addition to the four municipalities in the north, you have six other municipalities in KIM that are with the Serb majority. A very logical question arises – while we wait for the relationship of forces to change in the world, for Russia to become stronger than America and become stronger than the whole Western world, what if, in the meantime, someone in Pristina has the chance to implement a new "Blash" or a new "Storm"? So what do we do? It is easy to represent a policy of frozen conflict, if you live in central Serbia, but Serbs at KIM who are left to live, they expect the Kim issue to finally be resolved, in a way that primarily protects their interests, but also protects and respects the interests of the Serbian state in KIM. So we actually have a conceptal conflict conditionally. You're about to keep the status quo, and we're about to run an active policy, primarily in relation to the West. If you have noticed, now many politicians in the West are a bit softening their stance on Kosovo and Metohija because they have seen that Serbia is determined to protect its interests in Kosovo and Metohija. By yesterday, it was unimaginable that any Western politician would mention a compromise solution for Kosovo and Metohija. Now, from America, you can hear attitudes like that from France. We will accept any solution agreed by representatives of Belgrade and Pristina. It is still a shift, perhaps a slight shift, but still a shift in relation to the situation we had during Boris Tadic, whom you mentioned, when there was only recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence on the table. Today, there are countries that ask the Republic of Serbia to do so, but we should be honest with ourselves and with the citizens of Serbia, saying that even with some major world powers, change from Washington, from Paris, from some other centres of power in the West, stronger and stronger voices are coming that there is an acceptable compromise solution for them too, and that is that Serbia does not lose everything in Kosovo and Metohija, because if you recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, then that means that you are losing everything in Kosovo and Metohija. Can we get everything in Kosovo and Metohija? That's one difficult question, at this point we probably can't, but I think it's important to find such a solution that we don't lose everything when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's important, especially because of those citizens living in those 10 municipalities with the Serb majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58353	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58354	There's a healthy, logical thought in the people, if Kosovo wasn't ours, why would they push us so hard to take from us? If Serbia had no role to play here, what would so many white-world emissaries come to pressure Serbia's leadership over Kosovo? But there's also something that requires knowledge and wisdom, that you go to encounter events. We Serbian radicals, you're right, are different when it comes to conceptual policymaking in relation to advances. That's a historic difference since Milan Obrenovic, while advances with Milan Obrenovic were for the west, radicals with Pasic were for the Russians. It's a tradition. Whether at some point it will come closer, it depends on how historic it was, whether the one who leads Serbia will come into full dependence on Russia, and recognise the policy advocated by Serbian radicals. But let's put it aside now, what's it gonna be like to meet events? What the SRS insists, run for an idea at the UN Security Council, that members of the Russian troops be present at KIM. There is an immediate increase in security for the Serb animal that remains. Speaking of the 2004 Serb persecution period. I am a participant, like many, of the story I heard by the then military minister Boris Tadic is instructive. He said he would calm the Shipars with the main commanding international forces on KIM. Do you know when the Shiptari calmed down at KIM? In April 2004, when General Krga issued an order to set the tanks on fire and that, when the Shiplars were aware that the army would start, it all stopped. After all, the live actor of all this is your party president and president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who, along with Dusan Prophetovic, was in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. You can check this out, it's verifiable. So, you should go to the events that await us, not wait for them to launch the initiative, not wait for Ramush Haradinaj's initiative to have. Sometimes politics is the most important initiative. Sometimes in politics a step ahead brings you a great advantage. If this issue were to run, and there's no reason why, because the Russian Federation belongs to the family of the UN countries, there's no problem with them sending their troops. It's not like they used to be clay pigeons, now it's quite different. Whenever Russia was behind Serbia, Serbia was strong and stable on condition. Without Russia, there is no Serbian strength, there is no saying that Serbia will be able to deal with these white-world hohstapplers. Isn't it ugly when former Prime Minister Berlusconi, the president of the state, named Boris Tadic, calls him Mr. Klun, comparing him to an actor. Everyone thinks that because of his beauty, no, but he had a girlfriend in Italy as an actor, so this one embarrassed him, so he runs the Secretary of Defense, remember that scene, takes him by the hand. A man, two meters in him, instead of saying, excuse me, I'm not a clown here. Nothing less funny or humiliating when Bill Clinton touches the current president. The same is the move of an individual who goes to Serbia's shame. You know, you have to keep an eye on certain situations as you behave. Just one thing, I end up with Mr. Arsic, when at the Vienna Court they wanted to humiliate Peter Petrovic Nejgos, he came in a Montenegrin costume, a sprawl costume from Montenegro, then they went so far as to ask him – Mr. Petrovic, what is two plus two? He said – depending on where you are from the total collection, if you are right of collection then it is 40. So you should always be resourceful and wise enough to defend your interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58355	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58356	Here, Mr. Mircic touched some interesting historical topics. Mr. Mircicu, when Prince Mihajlo was killed in 1868, he was succeeded on the Serbian throne by the Duke, later King Milan. Do you know the first country Prince Milan visited? Russia. Prince Milan gave up his policy of blind belief in Russia after Russia signed with Western forces in 1878, i.e. with Turkey. The Sanstefhan Treaty. So, among other things, it was envisaged that the four southern districts, which the Serbian military freed in the Serb-Turkish war, should belong to Greater Bulgaria. Then King Milan said - I won Nis on bayonets, I can only hand him over to Bulgarians on bayonets. That's one thing. The second thing, at the Berlin Congress in 1878, is that it otherwise testifies and is written by Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovic, as the Serbian government sent it to America, according to Britain, propagating Serbia's idea as a python of Yugoslav peoples, he recorded in his notes the memory of Jovan Ristic from the Berlin Congress in 1878. At the Berlin Congress, the Serbian delegation had approximately status as a Republika Srpska delegation in Dayton, but did not ask much. When Jovan Ristic went to a Russian representative at the Berlin Congress, that Russian representative told him, "You know what, go to Bismarca, Beconsfield and Andrasia." So, please speak to Austro-Hungarian, German and UK about how to resolve the Serbian issue. At the Berlin Congress, the Serbian issue was resolved, not as Russia wanted it, especially as Serbia wanted it, but as the Austro-Hungarian, German and United Kingdom wanted. Why am I saying this? It's one thing to have feelings for one country and one nation, but something else is to run one real and responsible state policy. Whether the Russians with their contingent will return to KIM, so it does not depend on Serbia, it depends on Russia. Russia is now entitled to a KIM contingent under Resolution 1244. Why did she pull it, her reasons for it. But I'm afraid that waiting for something to happen all the time, but something very, very big to happen in international relations, and as you can see, it's still not happening, I'm afraid that long wait can first of all be at the expense of those Serbs who stayed to live on KIM. It is hardly Russia and China to wage war with America over Kosovo and Serbs from Kosovo, I have no doubt that anyone who is realistic has such expectations. What we're doing, it's just an active international policy. They are not controversial Russia and China, they support us, we have nothing to convince them that KIM is an integral part of Serbia. We are now doing the hard part of the job, the part of the job that the former government did not want to do, we are now talking to the Americans, the Germans, the French, and we are trying to impose on them a different view, that it is not a solution for KIM to ask Serbia for the recognition of KIM independence, because it is not a solution for Serbia, it is neither a solution for Serbia nor for the Serb people who have remained to live on KIM. We are now running a policy to try to convince these countries that the solution for KIM is that in KIM, at least I understand Serbia's state policy, not all Albanians get, or Serbia loses everything, but also to get something from Albanians, but also to get something from Serbia. It's a real policy right now, no matter how hard it is for some. (President: Bring the end. ) I also said here in some of the previous discussions, if you asked your heart, only your heart, so any Serb would tell you, perhaps not every one, but from 100 Serbs 90 Serbs would tell you whether you would like Knin in Serbia or if Banja Luka was in Serbia, it would say -- yes. But is that possible at this point? It's not possible. But what's possible? It is possible to preserve Republika Srpska, that is possible. It is possible to strengthen it politically, economically, as we do. It is possible that over the Serbs in KIM never again what you were talking about, the 2004 pogrom, which is also spoken of by the President of the Republic, not to allow a new "Blash" and "Storm" over the Serbs in KIM, this is real and we are leading policy in this direction. Everything else, you know, Serbia is too small and territorial and per capita and militaryly dependent on us to have a strong relationship in the international community. Russia will always be Russia, America will be America, America has its own interests, Russia has its own interests. What is the task of every Serbian leadership, not just this current one? It is to walk along that thin wire and to carry our little Serbian boat through those seals of international policy so that it is intact or through those seals with as little damage as possible. Those who ruled before us, they led a completely different policy, their goal was to win the election at all costs, and what would happen to the Serbs in KIM do not care. We run a different policy. We are running a policy to preserve the Serb people in KIM and at the same time preserve Serbia's national interests in KIM, not by warring with America, we are not capable of it, someone by trying to convince the Western world that the only real solution for KIM is the historic compromise of Serbs and Albanians, and that this historic compromise is the two largest Balkan peoples per population, with demographic indicators in favour of Albanians, but that this historic compromise between Serbs and Albanians is a long-term solution not only for the Kim, but for the stability of the entire Western Balkans, because until the question of KIM is resolved, you will have a more or less open question of the western part of Northern Macedonia, and you will have an open question of parts of Montenegro, with majority Albanian life. With a historic compromise between Serbs and Albanians, we are not only solving the KiM problem, which, as you say, dates back to the Kosovo Battle, but we are in the long run resolving the issue of peace and stability in the Western Balkans region. That's how much harder our role is. After all, when he wrote those words in the early 20th century, famous Irish writer James Joyce, many did not believe him. He said, quote him – I doubt the happy future of Europe as long as there is a problem in Macedonia. It's written in the early 20th century. How closely related are the problems of KIM, the western part of Northern Macedonia and certain parts of Montenegro, I do not think you, Mr Mircic, should be particularly explained as a long-standing experienced politician. But the task of Serbia, as key countries in this region, is to preserve peace and stability, and we should use this peace and stability, on the one hand, to economically strengthen Serbia, which we are already doing, and to strengthen it in a military-technical sense. Without a strong economy and without a strong Serb army, we will hardly achieve successes on the diplomatic agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58357	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58358	It is right that those who claim to have been different relations when it comes to Serbia and Russia's relations. These are the different intensity of relations that depended on the situation not only on the world political scene, but on who is at the head of these two states. We are witnessing that Russia in the 1990s, or in preparation for Serbia's bombing by the NATO Pact, even the President of Belarus Lukashenko confirmed that he himself cried for the fact that Jelicin did not want to engage the Russian army in Serbia's defence, did not want to make diplomatic efforts, but there is one irrefutable fact, regardless of the change in these relations, never in Russia's history has bombed us, ever. Everyone else is, Russia isn't. So that we don't withdraw from our emotions, here's what's rational today in Serbia's politics, to economically strengthen. Where can we find better cooperation than Russia? We get all the energy or most of the energy from Russia. All mining resources used for production and processing in Serbia are located in Russia. When it comes to the agricultural industry, it depends on the value of goods, the biggest market is Russia. Are those real parameters? If they weren't real parameters, then why would Germany, outside of every logic, violate the sanctions imposed by Western Europe, that is, America towards Russia? They're in the construction of the second leg of the North Stream and you've seen what Merkel's attitude is, and it doesn't care what America thinks about it, it's interested in getting as cheap as possible and as energyier. You know, when you're on the market, in competition with countries that use expensive energy, then you have a great advantage. Germany is much cheaper when it comes to gas as energy and much more favourable conditions, and that is why it is in great advantage. That's rational. The same Germany is urging in official politics not to co-operate with Russia. They say there's nothing good there. Who's normal now to be able to listen to that? They're fine, Europe's fine, even the ones that America is gripping and holding tight, and they're rebelling, they want to co-operate with Russia. Here's an example, not to go to Europe. Here's an example of Turkey. Erdogan estimated, enough of that tyranny by the Americans, promises to keep, so when he showed some self-initiative, they organized a coup on him. Had it not been for Russia, had it not been for Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, he would have lost his head, turned to Russia. He did not turn around because they only saved his head, conditionally said, but because the interest of the Turkish economy is in Russia. A large part of the goods produced in Turkey are being placed there. Besides, the military, if you're looking at the military, what's closer than working with Russia? Forget it. These are the floscules that used to be -- if we tighten relations with Americans, they'll bomb. He won't, Mr. Martinovic. When Russian capital came in the form of Gazprom Oil in NIS, there is no force to raise planes to bomb refineries. There's no such thing as a force anymore. You saw in Syria how those who thought so went. We need that kind of security. (Milimir Vujadinovic throws. It's just for us, a colleague of yours to get into later, you seem to be sleeping at this hour, but it's funny what you're throwing at us, we need someone who's an honest friend, who has potential, like China is helping us economically, and that's important, they can't blackmail us anymore. And that's why we stress the entry of Bechtel into the market, that it's a crime. The Chinese could have done it much cheaper, because now we can, not because we're the opposition, but we have a choice. When Russia strengthens its positions on Serbia, don't think there's going to be a big war. It's not up to Serbia. It's up to a great deal of power. Don't lose sight of it. Europe is your perspective, as you say. We say that Serbia's real perspective is to connect as closely as possible with Russia, while working with countries that are in Western Europe, but on equal grounds, not to kick us and blackmail us. You see the emissaries come from day to day. Here, anyway, let me finish. You say he's guarding Republika Srpska. So, what are they doing? They're starting the Srebrenica issue. What's that? Preparation of the terrain for Republika Srpska to be declared a genocide. It's just that. How will Serbia protect Republika Srpska if it is a matrix that will keep everything spinning? It's not like anyone thinks it's sudden, naive, is it? After all, here's a living witness to the events since the beginning of 2000. The same or similar story was told by the DOS. Here, Marijan Risticevic is here, a living participant. The same story -- just to turn west, just to turn to Europe, as far away from Russia as possible, comes billions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58359	Right to replication, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58360	I really can't agree with what you said was that our policy is the policy of the President of the Republic and the policy of the SNS to get as far away from Russia as possible. If anyone has brought Russia and Russia closer to Serbia, Alexander Vukic did. So, both politically and economically and on the military-technical plan. The evidence is that it was just the president of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, who decorated Alexander Nevski Aleksandr Vukic. The last Serbian politician before Vucic, who received such a high medal from Russia, was Nikola Pasic. So anything that was objectively possible to do about Serbia's approach to Russia, Serbia did. But this isn't about Russia right now. We don't have a problem with Russia. We are left with the other problem, which the former government has failed to solve, which is how you convince Western states, because you can't pretend like a child, put your hands over your eyes and say, "The West doesn't exist." There's America, there's a NATO pact, there's Germany, there's France, there's Italy, there's something called the Contact Group, etc. Not since yesterday. It's been there for years. It's been there for decades. At Alexander Vukic, first of all, and the Serbian government, how to convince powerful Western forces, without turning our backs on Russia, because we did not turn our backs on Russia, we did not impose sanctions on Russia, we cooperate with Russia on all issues, and never better co-operation was between Serbia and Russia, but during Alexander Vukic. But now you must put Russia aside. We don't have a problem with Russia. We now have a problem with trying to convince the Western world, which has largely recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that the solution for KIM is not by setting Serbia up as a requirement -- you have to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, because it is not a solution. Our task is so difficult that we need to convince the Western world that the compromise is a solution for Kosovo and Metohija, not recognition of KIM independence. After all, it is the easiest, recognised independence of Kosovo and you say - we have solved the problem. No, the problem is much bigger, how to convince that America, how to convince that Germany, how to convince Great Britain, France, Italy, that the solution for KIM is to dialogue with Kosovo-Methochian Albanians and achieve a historic agreement so that Serbia does not lose everything to KIM. That's what this is about. That takes huge energy. It takes a lot of effort. First of all, strong Serbia, in a political sense, needs a strong Serbia in economic terms and a strong Serbia is needed in a military-technical sense. Serbia has become economically strong in the last few years, because we have managed to establish responsible economic and financial policies, on the one hand, consolidate our budget, consolidate our public finances, and on the other hand, open new factories, create new jobs, hire Serbian citizens, reduce the unemployment rate from 26.27%, to about 11%, what it is today. That's why we need a wise and balanced policy. It's easy to insult Ambassador Scott today, tell him you're a fool, you're a monkey, you're an asshole, etc. Great. It is possible to do so with the French ambassador, and with German, anything is possible. But you always have to keep in mind what's behind you. Behind you are citizens of Serbia, behind you are people who expect every month a salary, for themselves and for members of their family. There are people behind you who expect to work. There are people behind you who expect to be treated. Behind you are people who expect to be able to educate their children. Behind you are the people you have an obligation as a state to stay in this country, as young doctors, as young engineers, not to go into the white world. You must take care of all this when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are not just a historic issue, Kosovo and Metohija are not just a territorial issue. Kosovo and Metohija are both economics and finance and diplomacy and a lot of what else. With all these funds and all these instruments, Serbia today defends its interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, why do individual politicians from the West change their stance on Kosovo and Metohija? Not as radical as we'd all like, but now we're hearing a little different tones from the west, because they realized they had a job with a serious state. Because the President of the Republic says the same thing, the state attitude in Moscow, both in Washington and Brussels and Berlin and Rome, and anywhere. We don't change politics from today to tomorrow, and we don't adjust our attitude to what our talker would like to hear. So the Russians would like to hear one thing, and the Americans would like to hear another, and the Germans would like to hear something third. No, Serbia is leading one single policy both west and east. The East is our friend at this point, we agree on that, but now we have the hard part of the job, how to make of those who bombed us until yesterday, if not friends, then at least partners who will listen to our argument on both Kosovo and Metohija, but also about the Republika Srpska, which you spoke about, and about Serbs who stayed in Croatia and Serbs who stayed in Montenegro. It's a hell of a hard policy. To succeed in that policy, you have to show wisdom, you have to show patience, you have to have tact, you have to talk in those places where it's hard to be, let alone talk. You were just mentioning in the peri-curious sense of how Bill Clinton patted on Alexander Wolf's shoulder. Aleksandar Vukic, on that panel in 2016, in front of that same Clinton, in front of that Camil Durakovic, who was the head of the Srebrenica municipality, claimed that there was a crime in Srebrenica, but that there was no genocide and that Serbia would do anything to help Srebrenica, which means to the Srebrenica Serbs and Muslims and everyone living in that area to have new kindergartens, new roads, new homes of health, new schools, etc. We think it's a responsible policy. He didn't go to Bill Clinton in 2016, or he didn't go to that panel to enjoy it there. He was exposed there to the barrage fire that Serbia is responsible, not only for Srebrenica, that Serbia is responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. Aleksandar Vucic, as Prime Minister, defended the position, not only of Serbia, but of the entire Serbian people, that the Serbian people is, in fact, the greatest victim of the violent crackdown of the former Yugoslavia. He could not have gone there and it would have been very simple for him. He prefers to sit in Belgrade, rather than talk to Bill Clinton and Camila Durakovic, but he chose the hard way, as it is not always a better way to go for Serbia or any other country. It is sometimes a difficult road, a better way, and the harder way to talk is not only with friends, but also with those who were your enemies until yesterday, and you are doing all you can to make of your former enemies, if possible, partners with whom you will rationally discuss many issues of interest to Serbia, not only when it comes to KIM, but also the position of the Serb people in Croatia and the position of the Republika Srpska people and the position of the Serbian people in Montenegro. I think Alexander Vukic has shown that one wise and responsible national policy is being conducted, how it is possible to be at the beginning of the 21st century, so to speak, a real national. Not an emotional nationalist, not a nationalist who dreams of something big happening, so when that happens, then all of our dreams will come true, but to try to make our national interests come true in this and this kind of world that is unfair, in which international law only respects itself when it comes to being big and sometimes respected, sometimes not respected. We can't invent a new world, we have to run politics in this and this world, and this world is unfair. This world is not unfair to Serbia just now, it has been unfair to Serbia many times in the past, but every Serbian responsible politician has made sure that this Serbian ship, take Prince Milos, take Ilia Garashanin, take King Milan, take Nikola Pasic, Jovan Ristic, each of them had that ultimate national goal, but he knew that you would reach that final national goal, you must move to dozens and dozens of small, small, difficult steps to reach that ultimate goal. You think it was easy for Lord Milos to talk to the Turks? Or King Milan? Nikola Pasic talks to both the Russians and the English and the Germans, etc. No, but you have no other choice. You need to talk. We act that way because we don't think there's any other policy. Every other policy is adventure. We charged ourselves with Serbian heads in the 20th century with this adventure. We no longer have the right to lose Serbian heads. We need living Serbs, both in Serbia and everywhere in the region. To keep them alive, we have to run a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58361	Mr. Risticevic, there are five minutes left from authorized. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58362	Mr Arsic, you have violated Article 104 of the pardon, article 107, then Article 27, and to explain to me only that we should return to the beginning of the presentation, or Mr Martinovic's application, as he told you, that he is reporting for the replica, and you said that he has the right to reply. Is that what happened? According to the Rules of Procedure, the replica can last for the longest two minutes. I looked at the e-parliament, all the time I've been following here, my colleague and I, during today's presidency with MPs who used time for more than two minutes for replication, and that's most often a radio colleague Martinovic, resorted to taking away, taking advantage of that term, or using time from a parliamentary group or an authorised representative. First of all, you are an authorised representative for this session, because the Rules of Procedure say there is a president, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. What he says is "i.e.", you have decided in your SNS parliamentary group that it is "or", that representative is you. We have decided to make it Mr. Milorad Mircic and he has today, through a very professional, reasoned debate, involved and used his time in this way to show that the SRS is right about everything he claims by submitting these amendments. Mr. Martinovic, I really don't get into that he's reported for an amendment that's still in progress and he's talking about the historical aspect, misreading certain historical facts and contexts, especially when it comes to Russia's role towards the then Principality of Serbia, but it's your right and here, you have a historian here who's going to tell you, he has his own interpretation, everyone has his own. But you can't tell us, Mr. Arsic, that's two minutes for replication. You were obliged to tell Mr Martinovic in the second minute – bring the end. Now, that new rule, you know, we now have a two-moon replica, so we can do it now. We told you to change the Rules of Procedure. We're no limit to anything, but it's you who, the advancers, wanted to stick to this Rules of Procedure that you inherited from the Democratic Party, that's what you follow. Mr. Martinovic, the fact that you have five times the time and use it, don't think that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58363	My colleague Jovanovic, you cannot speak to the People's MP in the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but rather the chairman. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I was talking to you. That's the first thing. The second thing is, he rejects the time he spoke in the replica over that time allowed by the Rules of Procedure of the parliamentary group, and later rejects the time of the authorised representative. To be clear right now, we members of the SNS parliamentary group have authorised a colleague, Martinovic, to be the president of the parliamentary group, and he has empowered me as a MP from that parliamentary group to be authorized by this agenda point, or transferred his rights to the president of the parliamentary group after this debate. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: It does not say anything. ) This substituted right, Mr. Martinovic can at any time, whenever he wants to take it away from me. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Then he should inform the office. He doesn't need to inform the office. He can take it anytime he wants. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Then you can only notify. Well, that's what you think. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58364	I do. Re-applying in accordance with Rule 27(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58365	It's already been done. He can't. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Stav 1 was not. I said 32.) My colleague Jovanovic, we don't want to fight, so you've advertised Article 27. (Natasa Jovanovic: There's nothing to fight for. First, what are the expressions “sustaining ”? All right, we're not gonna make a deal like we're at the market. You've advertised Article 27 in a previous violation of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't do anything, but I didn't do anything to break the Rules of Procedure again under Rule 27, but I didn't do one single store. Right on the line... (Natasa Jovanovic: I have to explain. Don't explain it to me. So, the National Assembly will vote in the day to plead your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Jovanov: I must plead. You say, "Be clear." Then please yes or no? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58366	Well, then, you deceive the Messengers. I don't want to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58367	My colleague Jovanovic, I gave you my word that you would like the National Assembly to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you did not say that you were already going to advertise a new injury. Okay. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this country doesn't belong to us alone, this country belongs to those who lived before us. This country belongs, of course, to Draža, Racan for sure, and Sylvia Degen, it doesn't belong. So, Mr. Atlagic, I don't blame you for this Degen, Racan, etc., and you feel free to blame me on Draža, and in your historical writings, you can also write that Draža Mihajlović founded the Goli Island, freely. I am proud of my grandfathers and proud of the army of Commander Chiche, who was shot today. This country also belongs to these conflicted soldiers. This land belongs to the ancestors, this land will belong to the descendants. We should take care of that. Dobrica Ćosic said that in the calculation of the great forces Balkan peoples are only change in each other's calculation, and that most often these large accounts of the great forces are paid by the skin of the Serbian people and we, as regards it, Mr Atlagic, Dobrica Ćosic was not a doctor of science, he did not even finish college. You're interested in your claims that they burned the savings book somewhere where the wars were, but the diplomas weren't, I guess they had a good frame. So, Mr. Atlagic, it is certain that out of our hatred, and it seems to me that Ducic, right, Mr. Martinovic, that our hatred has only benefited our enemies from each other's conflicts. The Serb brothers and sisters of Serbs, citizens and citizens, comrades and friends, we should listen to those who lived here and who were certainly more valuable and smarter than us. Only our opponents benefit from our conflicts and division. My colleague Mircic here said that I witnessed some events, these were offers that the economic interests of certain major forces, for example, economic interests, in building some infrastructure, included the political interests of the Serbian people and Republika Srpska. With the help of Hamovic and Lazarevic, certain people in Republika Srpska refused. It cost us a worse position. It cost us the disappearance of the Republika Srpska army. That also cost us the border that, instead of the Republika Srpska police, is now controlled by federal or confederal police. So I can testify to that wherever you want. But like our country, I am a small party and a small political figure who could contribute, those who then wondered in Serbia, after Djindjic's death, you can think what you want, but after it came ten times worse. There was a policy of a crawling apology, from Srebrenica and beyond. It just crawled and apologized and, of course, it cost us. We're grateful to all our friends as a country, we should keep them as valuable in the safe, we're not grateful to our opponents, but we have to work with them, even if we try to reduce the number of opponents because we're not just going to make our interests come true to our friends, just with the help of our friends, we're going to need at least a little less opposition from those on the other side. That's why I appreciate the efforts of those who work on it, even though I couldn't work on it personally, I wouldn't have a stomach for it. We must take care of Serbia and Serbia's economic interests. We must package Russian energy and minerals, package them here with the help of Chinese innovations and knowledge and Western investment and place it not only in Russia, but in the EU's surrounding markets and markets. I hope that soon, thanks to these foreign investments, we will make the surplus that we are making with CEFT, the same we will probably do with the EU. When Serbia is economically strong, it will no longer be empty. I live for the day when Serbia will no longer empty itself with the population, but Albanians should make sure that the most efficient ethnic cleansing is poverty, and the cleaners in this case are Switzerland, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, all where Albanians go. It's their problem that they're emptying out. Serbia needs to prevent its economy to develop Serbia's discharge, to retain existing territories, and God will allow others to see that the alliance with Serbia is the best possible solution and that Serbia will be great, that it will be large primarily in character, economic, probably in will and territorial terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58369	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58370	Here are three things that the current government must always have in mind, first respect and implementation of the Serbian Constitution. Nothing must be done outside the Constitution of Serbia, nor any decision that is contrary to the Constitution should be made. The second is Resolution 1244, insisting on the strict implementation of Resolution 1244. It won't be easy, it won't accept the return of soldiers, but it will be Serbia's initiative, because any other move is at stake unless they accept the implementation of Resolution 1244. What is third, it is at no cost, in any situation, or even the most severe madness Serbia must not accept Kosovo's membership in the UN. The pressure is not on Kosovo's recognition, but on Serbia's admission to the UN. As long as Serbia does not accept it, it will be Russia against it, it will be China, and they always have a mechanism to dispute it. That's three things that the current government can't lose sight of, it has to stick to strictly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58371	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58372	You do not need to have that kind of fear that Serbia will recognise or accept, as I usually say, the chair of Kosovo in the UN. If we have prevented Kosovo from entering Interpol, if we have prevented Kosovo from entering UNESCO, if we have prevented Kosovo from entering other international institutions and associations, then you can imagine how diplomatic and political efforts we will make and how much we are already investing that Kosovo and Metohija are not accepted as a full member of the UN. So that kind of fear you don't have to have. As far as Resolution 1244 is concerned, Serbia is here, as I say, completely clean, we respect it, but in Resolution 1244 there are things that are favourable to Serbia, and there are things that are not quite favourable to Serbia. Whether we Resolution 1244 will respect or not fully respect it, even if it is in the 100 per cent interest of the Serbian state, does not depend solely on Serbia. That depends, above all, on the states that are members of the UN Security Council. We talk about it all the time. So we absorbed the story of Russia and China. They're our friends. We have the closest possible relationship with them, they say it themselves, but we're left with the Western world. What do we do with them? You can't say they don't exist and they don't ask questions. That's the hard part of the job that everybody's kind of running away from. And so did those from the previous government, and in a way, you're trying to escape now. So, Serbia's task and the Serbian leadership task, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is very difficult to convince the Western world, headed by America, that it is not a solution for Kosovo and Metohija to ask Serbia to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but to accept a compromise solution, which long-term brings stability to the entire Western Balkans region. It's a hard job and it's a job that can't be done in a month, in six months, in a year. It's a job that'll probably take years. I've remained the answer to Mr. Mircic. I see he left the O.R. He says -- well, Kosovo and Metohija are resolved for the European Union, they recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. If they recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, then what invites us to continue dialogue with Pristina? What should we talk to Pristina if it's all over? It's not all over. We are trying to ensure that what is not finished is ended in favour of Serbia or for the most part in favour of Serbia, and in order to succeed, here, I end up, you have to open a dialogue not only with Albanians in KIM, you have to open a dialogue with major Western forces, headed by America, because if it wasn't for these great Western forces, never Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija would declare independence. We don't really have a problem with Thaci and Haradinaj. We have a problem trying to convince the Western world that the solution to Kosovo and Metohija is a compromise, not that Serbia loses everything. That Serbia loses everything, it is not a solution, it can only create additional indignation among the Serb people and further hatred in the Balkans. The solution is to find a compromise, to find some golden environment between the interests of Albanians and the interests of Serbs. This long-term brings peace and stability to both Serbs and Albanians, but brings long-term peace and stability to the entire Western Balkans, and the heart of the Western Balkans is Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58373	Comrade Radeta, just tell me on what basis, for calculating the time? I'd like to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58374	Thank you. You're changing thesis again. We're talking about something else here. We are not talking about the Western world, as a colleague says, in terms of individual states. We are talking about the path to the EU, which we in the SRS think is not good, is not good for Serbia, is not good for our people, and we repeat that. I think it is clear to everyone that we are a political party that is absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU. This certainly does not mean that it cannot be economically co-operated with some countries with which there is an interest, mutually, of course. As far as the U.S. stand, which we are talking about here, which is what our colleague has been talking about since US President Donald Trump, we have never heard the official attitude of the United States of Kosovo and Metohija. For us, what Scott's telling us, it's not the attitude of America. Here, he's still calling today to support those who first introduced him, so now he's got them coming out of the National Assembly, to support this Congradin, what's his name, that he's assessing who needs to repent, who doesn't need to repent. It is a shame, it has offended Serbia and all the citizens of Serbia so many times this Kyle Scott, and it is just amazing that we continue to suffer and not to say – and moreover, enough of you, enough of your insolence. You know, when you see things like that, then we really wonder where the seriousness of the state is? You talk about the seriousness of the state, and one Kyle Scott allows himself, and it is tolerated here, that he attacks whoever he wants and whenever he wants, that he visits our children, tells them that Kosovo is a republic, that in the government of Serbia he says it, that he tweets what he thinks, that in "Today", in "N1" and in other anti-Serb media, he can say whatever he wants, and then, as now, we have Scott's opinion and that opinion means something to someone. No, of course not. As for the attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija, we continue to argue the seas in another way, strengthening further co-operation with the Russian Federation to establish with China and repeat, we must insist and believe that, if we were to ask for it, in order to get it, that the problem of resolving Kosovo and Metohija would return to the UN Security Council. And that we get nothing, that we lose everything, that I mantra that leads to the division of Kosovo, against which the SRS is against and against which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58375	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58376	Without wanting to defend the US ambassador, but in Serbian history, there was an ambassador who was much more boastful and ruder to Serbian authorities. It was the ambassador of Austro-Hungarian, who delivered Nikola Pasic in 1914, the one by the ill-known ultimatum of Austro-Hungarian Serbia. He was more boastful of any ambassador who is currently performing his duty in Belgrade. Well, again, Nikola Pasic did not come up with the idea to banish the Austrian ambassador, nor the German, but decided to talk to them. As you know, Serbia has accepted all the points from the Austro-Hungarian ultimatum, except for one, which is that the Austrian police are investigating in Serbia's territory who are the organisers of the assassination of Franc Ferdinand in Sarajevo on Vidovdan in 1914. We've accepted everything else. We didn't turn down the whole ultimatum. We refused only the last point that was unacceptable to us. Why am I saying this? Because Alexander Vukic behaves today just as Nikola Pasic acted. It is not easy to listen from an American, German and French ambassador, it is not easy to listen from the French president that Kosovo is an independent state. But the question arises – what is the alternative? You can cancel their hospitality, you can thank them, you can get them out of Belgrade. The question is, are we going to get Kosovo and Metohija back? Here, now, to drive out all the ambassadors of the states who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, is that guaranteed by Serbia's return to Kosovo and Metohija? He doesn't guarantee it. The position of Serbia can only be harder than it is now. There is no for Kosovo and the Metohija easy solutions. We are now all talking about Kosovo and Metohija in one way that is nice to listen to. Now everyone's talking about Kosovo and Metohija, but no one wants to live in Kosovo and Metohija, no one wants to live in Prizren. Here, you, Mrs. Radeta, would you like to move from Zemun now to live in Prizren, to have someone give you a five-person apartment, a salary, a job, etc.? Would you leave Earth? I know you weren't born in Zemun. Would you, Despotovic? (Zoran Despotovic: B. You would leave your hometown and go live in Prizren, Djakovica? Go, who's defending you. Is Kosovo and Metohija Serbia for you? Yes, so what prevents you from going to Serbian Prizren? What prevents you from going to Serbia's Djakovica? You're acting a little hypocritical, that's our... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: You have not been to Kosovo. I was Natasha in Kosovo and Metohija many times, like you, and you know it very well. I'm telling you something else. Okay, here, I'm talking nonsense. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: When were you in Djakovica? · Global Voices All right. When were you in Djakovica? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I'll tell you. When were you in Djakova? Why don't you live in Djakovica? Why don't you live in Djakovica, but you talk about Tomislav Nikolic, Radomer Nikolic and Dragica Nikolic Foundation all day long. Okay, go and live in Djakovica. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Name five villages. Go and live in Djakovica. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: List five villages. I can't count five villages. You can name all the villages in Kosovo and Metohija, but without wanting to fight with you right now, I'm telling you this because I know what real politics is. It's nice to talk about all this, but no one will be bold enough to pick up their suitcases and get out of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nisa to live in Kosovo and Metohija. I haven't heard of any such case, and everyone's talking about Kosovo and Metohija being Serbian. And Krajina is Serbian, and BiH is Serbian, and Dubrovnik is Serbian. Great, go and live there. So, one is desires, one is our dreams, the other is reality. Reality is cruel and not the reality of harsh just today for Serbia, the reality has always been harsh for Serbia. When did Serbia have light and romantic episodes in its history? You can count them on the fingers of one hand. It's always been hard for us. We used to get hit from the west, once from the east, once from the north, once from the south, once by western parts of Serbia, once by the south, but it was always hard for us, but in this difficult situation you have to act responsibly towards your people. We think we're running a responsible policy. After all, it is the people who will say their opinion in the elections, and eventually, the people of Kosovo and Metohija, have already said their opinion several times, voting for the Serbian list. The most convincing support for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija is Aleksandar Vukic. Look at Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and all of them together, trying to make some municipal meat committees in Kosovo and Metohija. They can't raise two people, they're not people, but people want Alexander Wolfich, they want the SNS. Because they know we won't sell them. Because they know we won't betray them. Because they know we won't allow a new flash and storm. Did these helicopters and those planes fall from the sky or did they arrive in Serbia thanks to Alexander Vukic's diplomatic offensive towards Russia, according to Belarus, towards China, etc? Thanks to Alexander Vukic, we have a strong army, not by sitting in our cabinets and fantasizing -- but it would be nice for half of the Balkans to be part of Serbia. We run one responsible and real policy. First we had to strengthen the economy, so when we strengthened the economy, we moved on to strengthen the military, so now that we have a strong army and a strong economy, then we're seen differently in the world. So we have to take care of the order of steps. There is no strong Serbia without a strong economy and without a strong army, and that takes time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58377	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58378	Whether this regime will betray Kosovo and Metohija will only be seen. We sincerely want it not to happen, because we think we should do everything possible to keep Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, as it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This discussion just now really deserved to be interrupted, colleague Arsic, but it doesn't matter, I don't intervene in the Rules of Procedure. There was indeed a lot of insolence and hypocrisy and insolence. Who will live and call for the people to hear, go to Natasa, live in Peća, go to Pristina, and you go to Martinovic, at least you have a job there. This is really something that's amazing and that you want us to go to a debate that you sure as hell don't want. When someone asks you a question or when you're talking at all, then you say we should look into the future, we should leave the past behind, and then here you're talking about what ultimatums Nikola Pasic got at a time when it was certain that war was going to break out, which is probably not the case, when you're comparing the Austrian ambassador to this bastard, who is mocking the Serbian people, who is making fun of today with Nikola Tesla, and you see, to protect that Chongadin, as it is called, and the newspaper "Today" and the other anti-Serbian media. Don't, Mr. Martinovic, you know history, and it's not a dispute, but don't mix grandmothers and frogs. We've never said that you're bringing out some false history data. It's not a dispute, but you can't compare the actual time of Austro-Hungarian, and this is now the time and time of the Austrian ambassador and the time of the one who no longer deserves a name to be mentioned. The only thing I don't know is when you're gonna get him out of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58379	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58380	Without wanting to argue with my dear and respected colleagues, but I compared that time to this time because that time was hard for Serbia, and this time was hard for Serbia. As the people who led Serbia did not drive the Austrian and German ambassadors out of Belgrade, however hard it was for them to listen to everything they were telling them, so we cannot afford luxury today to drive out an American, German or British ambassador, no matter how much we disagree with what they say. It's a very difficult task, and I think you understand that very well. The task is to try, not only with these ambassadors, after all, they are not so important, but with the leaders of the great Western forces, to talk, what Alexander Vukic is doing, and to try to convince them. Whether or not we will succeed, it remains to be seen, but we are trying and using all possible and available means to convince these people that the solution for Kosovo and Metohija is not that Serbia completely disappears from Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia is still present in Kosovo and Metohija today. Not to the extent that you and I would like, but it is present to the extent that guarantees the minimum survival of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. That's where our schools still work. There are still functioning our universities within the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, i.e. the official name is University of Pristina with temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica. That's where our communities still work. There we continue to build apartments and houses for our people who have remained on their eternal fires. They failed, and they wanted to completely push us out of Kosovo and Metohija. Now the task of this current leadership, headed by our president, is how to make Serbia even more present in Kosovo and Metohija without disrupting the delicate relations we have with the Western world. I repeat again. Russia and China are not here. They're our friends. A higher degree of co-operation, I don't know what we can do, to declare ourselves an integral part of the Russian Federation, to say that we are the new federal unit in Russia. I mean, I don't know what else we can do. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Russia is a Federation. We can declare ourselves a federal unit of the Russian Federation, but then that means that Serbia no longer exists as an independent and independent state, and I hope no one here wants it. So, the task is difficult because you are talking to countries that, not only recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but worked actively to make Kosovo and Metohija separate from Serbia. And we are now trying to convince these same people, the same state, that it is not a solution for kiM that Serbia recognises the independence of KIM, but that a compromise solution will satisfy the minimum of national interests and Albanians, as well as Serbs. And we think it's a real and responsible national policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58381	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58382	This is why it is impossible to compare the time of Nikola Pasic and the present. Back then, the Ambassador of Austro-Hungarian came by Nikola Pasic and you know it well, with the official attitude of Austria, and what he's doing here, Kyle Scott, for sure, is impossible that the official position of any state could be. Do you think he got a dispatch last night to protect Congradin, Snow White? I don't even know her name to remember. Do you think he's got such a dump? It's not. Did he get a dispatch to write on "tweeter" to insult Nikola Tesla? It's not. So you can't compare his indifference and his insolence, no matter what they declared war for us at the time, but it was a more serious relationship. Don't defend Mr. Martinovic, say you can't drive Scott away, you can't drive the ambassador away. The problem with Scott, with his embassy, with the British Embassy is the problem we've been talking about for years. And we claim that they are working against the state of Serbia. And we claim they recruit certain ministers. You were jumping, you wanted to fight with us from here when we were saying that. Seven days ago, Aleksandar Vukic published in his interview, saying some ministers do not work for Serbia, but work on orders from foreign embassies. Right? That's right. Don't stand up to your own president. It is a fact, such as the fact that Kyle Scott is heating up and those who are calling you, from these anti-state and anti-Serb media, and what they're drawing your cartoons and what you said -- imagine, we have one thing in common -- that's what Kyle Scott does. He gives them money, he goes through these newspapers, you say he destroys the state, knocks down Vukic, we say anyone who does something against the state of Serbia, automatically works against the Serb people. And it's normal to work against whoever's in power. It's now the Wolf and yes, they're working against the Wolf. Now someone's gonna accuse us of defending Wolfie. No, we are not only identifying Vukic and Serbia, nor anyone and Serbia, but we are trying to preserve together the reputation of the Serbian state, at least we who sit here and do everything we can to preserve territorial integrity and preserve the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia without letting Kyle Scott laugh in our face. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58383	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58384	Mrs. Radet, we agree on some things, but I cannot accept that KIM has recognised this Kyle Scott as an independent state. I didn't say that. Thus, he did not recognize the independence of KIM. Kosovo and Metohija have been recognised by a state called the United States. Our task is to talk to the United States, try to explain to them that what they did was not a good move for the stability of the Western Balkans and try to explain to them that Serbia has some legitimate national interests at KIM that it cannot give up. That's what we're talking about. As for the individual ambassadors, who will be the ambassador of the United States to Belgrade, that is not what you or I are asking. That's what the U.S. Constitution decides. So, the President of the United States has the authority to pull Scott back, to leave him in office, can extend his mandate, but now we leave aside who's the ambassador of the United States and leave America aside. Let's see what it is that we as a state can do in relation to this Western world, improve our position in their eyes and in their policy on KIM. Not only about KIM, but also on many other issues of vital interest to the entire Serbian people, and the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people living in Croatia and the Serb people in Montenegro. So there are many things Serbia needs to worry about today. Did Kyle Scott get a dispatch to drop by on some daily list to do something, to insult or do something else, I don't know. That's what Americans don't tell me, and that's not what I'm interested in. I'm interested in helping out as much as I can. I know my help is minimal, but here we all have SNS MPs trying to help our president endure the policy he's leading, which is to improve our position in the eyes of the Western world, that if we can't make them our friends, even if they're willing to listen to our opinions and accept our argument. It's a tough policy and you know it's hard. We're helping as much as we can, there's no other solution in our opinion right now. There is no real solution, and we are trying to provide a realistic, life- and sustainable solution when it comes to KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58385	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58386	It's normal that you and I have different views on many things, as I think it's normal that we shouldn't have different attitudes when it comes to national and state interests, but I would ask you not to try to make me ignorant. Don't explain how an ambassador is sent, how an ambassador is received, how his hospitality can be cancelled, you know it all well, but I know it too. Of course, it is clear that a great force, a relationship to a great force, cannot be the same as to a country of the same rank or a smaller one, etc. But you also know what goes on from Serbia to the seats of the countries that have ambassadors here. You know, we've spoken here several times about all the dispatches leaving the ambassadors in connection with the operation of Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic and those buluments. That's why it's very important that we don't have such open enemies and friends of these walkers, also open and anti-Serbian ambassador like Scott, because he's sending a picture out of here, not that he posted in "Today" and on Twitter his tweet, he's sending a dispatch on the behaviour of certain politicians, both you and us and the president of the state and all of them. Among other things, it's one of the segments that creates a picture of a state in one country. That's why we can't protect Kyle Scott, 150 times from the U.S. We must not, insult us, humiliate us, insult the state, he insults the president of the state, insults everything that is Serbian. For him, only the good ones who don't like Serbia and he supports them, he's for "The Women in Black", he's for you, what this journalist said, that elite as she called, they can all stop, unfortunately, she says in one bus, I sincerely hope she'll fall for just one van soon, but again, that van will drive Scott.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58387	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58388	The ambassadors have always sent dispatches to their governments about what's going on in the state where they're accredited. So it's a common diplomatic practice, it doesn't happen during Alexander Vukic, it's been happening for centuries. After all, I think we can make things as simple as possible, what's the ambassador? Well, sort of a legalized spy. It is he who, on behalf of his country, informs his country of what is happening in the state in which he is accredited. There's not much philosophy here. But what surprises me is that you insist so much on the name and last name of a man, and you and I, that neither you nor I nor any of us can ask who will be the ambassador of the United States to Belgrade. It's a question for the President of the United States, and it's pointless to have a discussion about it. Who will be the ambassador of Great Britain, Germany, that's what their governments decide. Why should we hold a debate in the Serbian Parliament? I even think, Mrs. Radet, that sometimes we are a little bit unfair towards the American ambassador. We expect him to be friendly to Serbia, not to write tweets against us, not to make difficult statements about "Today" when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. But Kyle Scott didn't say he was "j... "Mother of Serbia-Montenegro, rather than Vuk Jeremic. It was not Serbia that was robbed by Kyle Scott, but Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, and those who were in power until 2012. We're mad at Javier Solana, rightly, for pressing that button that marked the start of NATO bombing. But there is someone in the eyes of the Serb people worse than Javier Solana, this is Vuk Jeremic, who in an interview at Spigla, and I talked about it, and my colleagues talked about it, in January 2008, as foreign minister, justified NATO aggression and said that Milosevic was pursuing Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, that he followed, as he said, NATO intervention, and that Milosevic had to, quote Vuk Jeremic -- to withdraw his troops, not the Military Yugoslavia and not Serbia's MUP, but his troops, as if it were the private army of Slobodan Milosevic, to withdraw them from Kosovo and Metohija. Now I'm asking myself common sense, and what do I expect from Kyle Scott, what do I expect from Javier Solana and what do I expect from anyone from the white world, when you have Serbs here, even if the Serbs are by name and last name, by birth, who are working against the interests of their own state. They're worse bastards to me than that Scott of yours. Well, worse Scott is the one who said, "I... “ I am the mother of Serbia-Montenegro, I am Montenegro, and you are still laughing at Serbia. Gori Scott is the one who, in talks with Serbia-Montenegro's ambassador to Moscow, at a time when the issue of the survival of Serbia-Montenegro's state union is being broken, discusses whether there are some light women or not at a Moscow hotel, so that Vuk Jeremic can spend time in Moscow, and the water, as announced in those intercepted talks, Boris Tadic as a monkey in Moscow, remembers that. That was published the other day. Now, how can I tell you, what should I expect from Scott, you have 100 times the worse "cots" in Serbia called Jeremici, Obradovici, Gilasi and Tadici, and who have done us more harm than this Scott that few people can be happy with, but what he is like, neither you nor I can change him. What we can change is to strengthen Serbia's position in international relations, by leading a wise and responsible national policy in all fields and political, both economic and financial, and diplomatic, and military-technical, and here, Mr Arsic, I will no longer answer for the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58389	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58390	Well, now we seem to understand who Kyle Scott is and we're not at all burdened by that name or by that guy to talk about him so much. But he did do some inadmissible things, remember only when it was a military parade, when he rebelled what General Lazarevic would do at the parade. So, with what right, you say neither you nor I can put him away. Has anyone from the state tried to write a dispatch to the State Department to say how their clerk behaves here? No, of course not. You're right about all these "cots" you mentioned, which are evil for the state of Serbia, but it's a big problem that Scott is in charge of all of them, which is what Scott gives them, what Scott brought them, remember, we've been talking for three and a half years... (The People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, throws it away. They do, some of them have more than Scott, I agree. But, let's just say, when you listened to Scott, what was a terrible mistake for you, so you brought Bosko, Sandu into parliament, I no longer know who he was, this Alexic who sold the party, and they're exactly who Scott is, do you now realize that Scott forced them into the National Assembly so that they would, on his orders, cause chaos in the National Assembly? Is there anyone who doesn't understand? So, they're "cows" from the beginning, "cows" are still a day and they'll be until he tells them: now come in, now come out, they're with him on a leash, which Zoran Krasic knew to say, it's enough for Scott to say – to the leg, and they'll run. We must therefore speak openly of him and of them. This people need to know why some people in Serbia behave as they behave, completely traitorous to the state and national interests and Bosko Obradovic, and Vuk Jeremic, and Dragan Djilas. If we don't tell the people, I don't know who will, it's primarily our sacred duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58391	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58392	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, while respecting that this is an expression of Mr. Mircic's political attitude, which requires that Article 2 be deleted, I still have to say that I cannot agree with it, because Article 2 as proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law is simply necessary and necessary. In fact, the Republic of Serbia is absolutely showing by this law and these amendments and additions to this law, that it is a serious, responsible and stable state, which has fulfilled all the obligations it has made to itself in a orderly, timely and responsible manner. This could in no way be said for Serbia between 2000 and 2012, but what today's debate on this law and these amendments is clearly indisputable for Serbia to conduct a completely different policy from what it was until 2012. That we are satisfied with the results achieved entirely, we are not, but that what Serbia has done over the past seven years is close to the maximum that can be done by a country that has been on the verge of collapse, in every respect, is a fact. Could some other ways have been easier to get to these results, perhaps something could have been easier to achieve, but for Serbia to again be a country that they respect properly and as we believe it deserves, apart from the successful rise of the economy, it is obviously also very important to raise the military force and the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that in the past few years, which have worked intensively to rebuild Serbia's Army, by training it, by raising the levels and standards of the soldiers and officers themselves, by raising the battle effort, Serbia's attitudes are far better heard and by all those countries with which we are able to address the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, we are not satisfied. I will not agree with colleague Verica Radet that Kyle Scott does not represent what American politics is compared to the Republic of Serbia. What he does, who he loves and who he doesn't love, it's a special story, but as long as Kyle Scott doesn't call off whoever's authorized for it, which is the President of the United States, he absolutely shows me here what American politics is compared to the Republic of Serbia, and therefore also to the status of Kosovo and Metohija. If we were to apply a different principle, then we would really put our friends and allies in an awkward situation at the moment if we said that Mr. Cepurin did not represent the interests of the Russian Federation properly and their views in the Republic of Serbia or that Alexander Arkadievich Harchenko, the new ambassador whose work results we look forward to in some future period, but we do not expect any change, because Russia has not changed either. Otherwise, what's in today's debate, and it seems to me sometimes even in the views of my esteemed colleagues sitting on my left and right, is that somehow for ideological reasons, they're missing a very important period, and that's the period from 1945 to 1990. We are referring to Nikola Pasic, we are calling for a period from 1941, we are calling for today's days and attitudes and relationship in all of this, and we are not ready to see what is good from a period that lasted from 1945 to 1990. You know, I know he doesn't deserve every house of flowers, but I agree that anyone who's lost their lives should know where his grave is. And we have to look for what wasn't good and what was good, because you know, if you jump off the first step on the fifth, you're missing the second, third and fourth, and then the question is whether you're going the right way. It used to be called active peaceful co-existence by 1990, and the active peaceful consistency of the former state, from which we all came, could lead because it was stable economically, because it was the fourth military force in Europe, because it was the third exporter of arms in the world and its voice was heard far away. Therefore, if we do not want to war, and no one here wants to war, then Serbia's Army must really advance and return full capacity, because the army is not preparing to war, but we must have a strong army so that no one will ever think about it happening to us in 1990, and with economic growth, a stronger army, the attitudes of the Republic of Serbia will, when it comes to resolving Kosovo and Metohija, be much better received and more clearly defined and when it comes to those who do not look favorably at us and do not come to our hands when it comes to resolving the status of Kosovo and Metohija. And let me tell you, we're all angry with the right to all those who bombed the Republic of Serbia, from Javier Solana and beyond, but also let's not forget that we should be angry with those who abolished the verdict by which those who conducted the bombing left the damage, mutilated our country, kidnapped Kosovo and Metohija, those who abolished the verdict against Javier Solana and everyone else. The consequences of abolishing that verdict and pressure from those who did so so that Javier Solana could come to Serbia and not be arrested at the airport are coming to us and we will feel them in the legal cavity that comes in some future period and we should take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58393	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58394	My colleague Komlensky reminded me to install one two sentences of my speech regarding this amendment. They convinced us that when they abolished that verdict, that the state of Serbia would benefit from it and now try to convince us of some similar things, and perhaps it is not politically correct, although I understand in the heat of the struggle that the views of the Parliament as well as possible are not politically correct to equalise Russia's relationship with Serbia and the United States of America, and it is not Kyle that he is a bastard, but because Kyle Scott is and because he comes from the United States. That's what we have in mind. But I remember, perhaps one of the colleagues present here, I was one of the members of the delegation of this Assembly visiting the Embassy of the Russian Federation when Konuzin was an ambassador in 2010. The delegation was headed by Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as Parliament Speaker at the time, and Ambassador Konuzin was dissatisfied with the government's relationship in Serbia, when it comes to privatisation and economic activity of the Russian Federation. Then there was another regime, of course, but now we have to at this difficult moment, and he's right when he says it's not easy to lead Serbia, that it's not easy to be a government in Serbia now, it's never been. Not just for Scott and the like, but for those of us. Here's this Snow White Chungadin, who says she's a journalist in a state that's genocide. Is there a greater sin against his country? There's nothing else to do, just make a statement. Remember, a fellow MP a few days ago came to ask a question and threatened the MPs and everyone else about the mention of genocide. That's terrible stuff. We can't follow that sort of thing. Now that fellow Martinovic has said who would go to live in Kosovo and Metohija, so the fact that we're building ambassadors now, this one will think – so I'm not the worst one yet, I can be a little bit worse, I can tighten even more. We should always highlight Resolution 1244, the Kumanian Agreement, although the SRS alone was not for it at the time, but there are some things that give us some chances and some hope. We must never say - so Albanians or Shipari have the help of the United States and so on, but rather hold on to what is currently at our disposal. I would be proud and happy if Emmanuel Makron had said he would reconsider his country's decision to recognise Kosovo and Metohija. You know what that would mean if one permanent member of the Security Council said he was going to withdraw that decision? And the parallel needs to be developed and strengthened and economic and security relations, Mr. Djordjevic, I guess you're one of the first to start reforming the military, not to forget, and we're getting a little involved, because maybe you've become bored in this multi-hour debate. He's not, of course, keeping an eye on it. Now, in order not to get the impression that the SRS is against this law, which was passed in 2016, where the state of Serbia is bound and accepted for public debt what citizens have right as old foreign savings, I will Colloquially, not to speak the specific name of this law. One of my colleagues said that citizens have been waiting 18 years, not 18, 27. Article 1 of this Act says – this law regulates the conditions for those who, by 27 April 1992, passed foreign exchange savings, of course, attributing interest until 2016. We think this was enough. Until this moment, i.e. for the realisation of this SNS law and the current regime do not bear any responsibility, but since 2016, when we had it, it was also changed in 2017, you are responsible. Here, now we'll try the arguments to say why and why. Because you say that the state of Croatia did not want to issue certificates at all until December 2018, that those claims were not realised. Bosnia and Herzegovina with the government, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina's finance ministry, only in April 2019, was discussed with them to issue such certificates. Do you guarantee that since December 2018, I mean the Croats have already begun to issue these certificates, it has been six months, that in the next six months it will be realised? I don't. That you won't show up again with a similar bill to move on to six or as long as it takes months. And what someone sat down and talked to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Finance Ministry in April of the month, it had to be done earlier. We need to monitor what we insist on always having to run some tests and follow the law. And when you saw that we didn't have enough evidence to implement this law, then you had to intervene again, and maybe it could've done without this. Now we are not delirious, but simply when it is analysed, we say that three reasons for the adoption of this law on amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation in the Republic of Serbia. One is, I have to tell you, it sounds pleasant to those who don't have this in common, they don't know what it's about, but they say they see generously, they want to help. That's one reason. Secondly, these obligations stem from some international factors of international desire and goals, and it is true that this Court of Human Rights, which was established in 1959 as a pilot of the verdict, said that only a few specific cases should be resolved, and then because they have about 8,000 requests or 1,650 cases in place, then we are trying to solve it that way. Perhaps the most serious, third but perhaps the most serious reason, what is provided for in the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia is not enough if the total amount of the claim, or what is treated as a public debt, is not enough to pay off the first tranche that was due until 31 August 2019. That's not even a tenth of what it takes to pay off, so then you're taking the time to get it out of the way and predict it in the 2020 budget to pay for that part. I think it's probably this third reason. So in six months, you're going to extend one out of the 10 wars you've planned, so you're saying it's going to be eight. Finally, it will be maybe before, or even six months ago than it was in the first version, but you know, sometimes debtors can pay off a full debt in a year, but public executioners came in today and they're looking when there's no possibility of such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58395	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go. Then, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58396	I thank the chairman. I believe that Mr. Sreto Peric misunderstood me, and I didn't think of comparing the relationship between Russian ambassadors and US ambassadors to the Republic of Serbia, and I don't want to discuss it anymore. There's one thing I have to agree with, which is that it's high time the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia started doing its job. This house has adopted a resolution on the existence of a crime in Srebrenica, therefore, the prosecution is obliged to initiate criminal proceedings against all those who in any way question the position of the Republic of Serbia officially, arguing that this is a genocide state, causing harm to this country by making it evil and simply its international authority in question, thus undermining the absolute interests of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, meaning the entire Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58397	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58398	It is good that we understand in that part that when you are seriously engaged in the state, then you understand how difficult it is to run a small Serbian ship through those narrows, resources and rocks that represent the way of our country and how much responsibility it is. We do not run away from that responsibility for a moment, on the contrary, for this I report to intervene. It is true that it is not only understood by one who, like the former regime, treated the navigation as one for his own enjoyment. And Gilasi and you, Jeremiahs, and the entire yellow company that was acting on that voyage, which means you're in a position to take care of something, come to a responsible state function, and you think you're up on some roller coaster or roller coaster in a drunken millionaires' amusement park. Now, that's how they treated the issue and they cared about themselves, only thinking about themselves, about their own companies, like Dragan Gilas, who directed hundreds of millions of euros towards them, about his own career, but also about pockets like Vuk Jeremic, who got millions of dollars in the way you knew which way, and he had great fun. You've already heard those famous sentences saying that together with his friends and business associates, they've been grinning about their mother's mother to Serbia-Montenegro, and probably to the Serbian people wherever she was. (Alexander Martinovic: And it is not enough for him, but is still suing his own country. And now, you're suing your own country, and that's where our pain and our efforts don't cost at all and not just that, that's what I wanted to tell you, and today they sabotage their own country and today every success we make is trying to spoil it. We bring the President of France to the middle of Belgrade, in Serbian language, to say that he is bringing messages of love to our people and saying that he respects the Serbian interest in both Kosovo and Metohija, that these are no longer the words of that explicit attitude of the state, any state that considers that Kosovo is not Serbia, but that compromises that, the Serbian interest exists and everyone has to see and understand. And how do we fit? How are they trying to break both Gilas and Jeremic and these Todorics? You have heard today the most primitive, so ground-based insults at the expense of this macron, the delinquent, the nagging, the evil because it went so successfully after Serbia, the successful by Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, but rather few, now, that Todorovic representative Gilasov and the senior official of Jeremic's party, who in the most ground floor expressed himself publicly through his Twitter about the sexual tendencies of President Makron, as he is experiencing it. Here, now I'm saying, and that's more necrophilia. He's trying to outsmart himself, he says it's necrophilia. The same time we mention Srebrenica, he said, on N1 TV, Srebrenica is genocide and for that, watch that sentence, Serbia is responsible, or SRJ. These people who have always cared for themselves cannot bear that Serbia is trying not to produce a small result, I would say, a huge result, and when it comes to the most difficult problem, such as understanding Western countries, but also when it comes to fantastic successes that we are accomplishing on the other side of the world. One example I'm just going to say, and I'm ending up really, we're going to start working, but really in practice we're going to start working, a metro that's a long topic in this country. You know who? With companies coming from France and China, together we will do something today in Serbia reality. The project is one of the biggest symbols of the failure of the former regimes of Dilas, these Jeremic, these Tadics, Stefanovic and these and such Todorovics and an indication that Serbia can do much better than in their time, when it will and when people who love it take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58399	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58400	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, most of them have been robbed of poorer citizens, middle class. Poverty was not produced by the poor, but by the rich. How did the rich become rich? These are the winners of inflation and the winners of the transition. They're the same people, they're the same people that Milosevic allowed to get rich through inflation. Let's just remember that the black course was 20, 30 times higher than the supposed official course. They influenced that lineup by buying foreign exchanges for 100 dinars, and selling it on the street for 1,000 dinars, for 10, 20, 30, 50 times the amount, and then that wasn't enough. Those who bought foreign exchanges on the street bought gasoline and cigarettes for that money, so let's say those for the brand they bought for 10 pfenings bought a liter of gasoline with those same ones who robbed for foreign exchanges and foreign exchange savings and the ones from the straw savings, for that same money, they sold that gasoline and diesel for three euros. It was a multiple robbery. The money from that kind of robbery, obtained by inflation and smuggling, went to Cyprus and the world's banks, and then these same people became DOS friends, and also financial directors, and they went to be a win-win transition. When we all lost everything they got rich, they bought everything. They decided to make three kinds of banks. One bank was liquidated, others sold to foreigners, and another robbed such as Agrobank in a later period and Vojvodina Development Bank. This first winding-up was done to gain the property of social capital and to get the money that was robbed by the citizens for the first time, this time to buy their companies, or leave them out of a job. The blood on the straws they drank from 1990 to 2010, to gain their vast wealth, and on the other hand they produced poverty that was unsustainable to see. Hundreds of thousands of underpaid, unemployed and fired were produced. We don't need to forget that. That's where the foreign savings went. And my proposal for the return of that foreign savings, if it were feasible, would have been, during this time, that the state confiscate the property of all tycoons, but not unfairly, that by judicial means or by some other democratic means, an acceptable democratic path, not by shooting, as did their fathers. They're all children of communism, former officials. Didn't you notice that all these winners, ultimately the winning communism and transitions, were there something and, say, they didn't like Russia and China, and all of us who were prone to equinoxes, loved Russia and China more. It's an amazing paradox. But money can do anything. My proposal is that everything they've given to the state, all that money the state pays back to them, with 5% interest. Here's 10% interest a year, and everything the state gave them means everything they've given the state to pay them back with 10% interest, and the state gets everything they got from the state by privatizing it back to itself. I think it's fair, that their money be with 10% interest, and that the state without any interest should be returned to land, combined, factories, etc. The foreign savings went missing just by buying 10%, and on the street according to an official alleged course, and on the street they were selling it to the poor, from which they took it, foreign exchange savings sold 10, 20 times the amount to buy gasoline, three times the amount they bought abroad. And it's a robbery that's been done. In my opinion, the famous "stealing point" password that has grown out of the Liberal Alliance was in the Vojvodina coalition, I think it should have come into effect. I don't think that's the point we put in because of the foreign factor. Multinational companies and banks wanted our banks gone, and these did them a favor. The financial market has completely belonged to foreign banks, against which Bosko Obradovic was against, and now hangs out with those who brought foreign banks. Unbelievable. So he was, I don't know about the tycoon and he's hanging out with Gilas. The foreign factor allowed it to gain some of the property. They took the brewers, cementists, everything on this market that made profits, so it wouldn't spill on their markets, so that we wouldn't accidentally take over a European market in democracy and the market economy. They decided to take what was already coming here, cement factories, brewers, banks, insurance houses, and they deliberately left this to the tycoons, and they agreed to this kind of robbery. Why? Because they knew that the tycoons were DOS friends and that they would affect the future compositions of the government and that the Republic of Serbia would thus lose sovereignty. That's why I suggest that in the future, the heavily restored sovereignty and part of the sovereignty we have recovered would not be lost again, that we punish those tycoons and finally punish those 24 privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58401	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58402	Since you've looked that we have time, I'm going to go for an explanation. So, we've been asking for the expropriation of this article, Mr. Djordjevic, here we go back a little bit to the session on this part, because I have some specific questions for you. Although you are not the finance minister, but a man who has a good knowledge of all the legal rules that have been passed since you've been Minister of Government, let's go back to 2017 and to the original adoption of this law. How did this even happen? I would disagree with my colleague Martinovic, because first we should say that Serbia was at the time, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, when the process of succession was one of the major anti-Serbs, which is Goran Svilanovic. The National Assembly was also informed, as were the state communities and the National Assembly of Serbia that we were just moving these issues - what would happen next? Here is the specificity of this so-called old foreign savings, that this will be resolved in special negotiations and agreements between Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and former members of the SFRY. This one, so-called. The pilot of the verdict, which was made for these people mentioned here today, by the European Court of Human Rights, opened a Pandora's box that is now truly a financial noose around Serbia's neck. We deleted it for reasons that even then, in 2017, as now, the SRS disagreed. Of course, this must be respected now, but it must be respected, among other things, that they were neither smart nor capable of these products of the yellow treason regime, that in 2012 and before that they react and make one complaint and do everything, as they have handed to Brussels to decide on the fate of KIM, so they should then, on behalf of Serbia, direct the complaint and explain exactly what we are explaining to you right now. The only fair solution would be in this case if the old foreign currency savings for citizens who are from the former republics' space were paid out in the country, I believe you agree that this is the most just place where the stake is laid, somewhere that bank with its headquarters. What am I saying this for? It's precisely because many of these banks, because it's nice here when the verdict was made, the "Investbank" committed that it will administratively and humanely help solve these cases, both because of the database and everything. But there's one other thing, Mr. Djordjevic, which is that for 17 years, there hasn't been a bankruptcy in these banks. I will bring you back to it, here, and my colleague Arsic knows it, that we have brought just for that very reason that all bankruptcy would be over and because of the demand for these creditors, these are the factories in restructuring and businesses, to amend the bankruptcy law. And that was the main reason. Many of them might not remember, that it would solve the bankruptcy issue of these large banks, which Dinkic had in one day wiped out and destroyed. And the Beobank and they all have their own staff, said a colleague of Radeta yesterday, and they have their own money, they have their own bills.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58403	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58404	We've already said that we're in favour of solutions like this because it's just coming out to meet people, ordinary citizens, people, that they have more time to collect the documentation they need. Since it's been mentioned in the debate so far whether this is a situation in our cash register, whether we can handle it financially or not, it's absolutely not a question. So, we often talk about what we can do today and how much more than we can about the time when these, that, therefore, are capable, when you say the ability, for yourself, for your pocket and your company, therefore, in relation to that time, Serbia can do much more today. They themselves, I'm sure they were better at the time. And it's kind of indicative that they were getting better and better, just when Serbia was getting worse. And the more jobs we lost and the bigger the debt, the more beautiful and better they got, the more successful they got. It's their self-gratitude and the story of their ability, how good and successful they were, so I don't know if there are any more picturesque examples than those we've witnessed literally these days. Imagine when someone allows themselves, I'm not going to say that luxury, I'm going to say that insolence, like what Dragan Gilas is doing today, to say -- there's no right to ask me about my fortune, because I'm like a rich man into politics in 2006. He said that three days ago. Now he thinks that the people, who are usually constantly insulting to him, but that this people are stupid or senile, so we don't know that he boasted himself, and he seems to be boasting day and day when you look at his official biography, that in 2004, he became a high-ranking party official of the yellow company, a member of the board and a member of the executive board, that he then possessed that non-existent function, only made for him, to be head of Boris Tadic's National Office, so that he was in a position from which he could trade interest in 2004, so he did in 2005 and 2006, and then he was a little minister, in 2007 and 2008. He says in 2006 I had a great firm, the best firm in the world. Is it, and how, two years ago, you made this great company, the best company in the world, which, by the way, is said to the "Darrekt Media" I mean, tens of millions of euros in traffic with Telecom alone and with him, subordinated to it, dependent societies? How is it possible that you officially translated that company on yourself and paid $10,000 for it? It was so successful, in 2004, if I'm not mistaken, how successful and strong it was then, that it was only worth $10,000, and today you're selling us fog, lies most common and most impoverishable story -- that's when she turned tens of millions. And then, as if it were little, as if it weren't enough, it passed a day or two, said Dragan Dilas in this memo that is his Todoric, which says that the Serbian genocide people, in this paper that he handed over to the court, suing their own state, wrote Dragan Djilas for his political and business biography -- I was the mayor, after which, my mother, had done nothing more. And what was before that, he forgot. So, he doesn't know what he was doing with Boris Tadic from 2004 to 2006, but he's still saying - I didn't do anything in 2007 or 2008 until I became mayor. As he goes, in five or maybe six days, it doesn't matter, this same Gilas will say, without a shred of shame - I was never in Serbia and don't ask me about my millions. Well, I'm afraid not. We'll ask him and then we'll ask him more than today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58405	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58406	Mr. Orlic, shutting down leading banks in Serbia under the bat of Mladjan Dinkic, you were not an MP at the time, you may not have been involved in politics in 2002... (The Belief of Radet: Maybe he wasn't even born.) )......................................................................................................... He was born, but he's younger. It was carried out because it was the only way to open space for these mafia foreign banks, but you may not know the fact that at that time Beobank had a 1.2 billion-euro claim. They weren't euros back then, but when it's converted, that's it. Now the question arises, you have now listed all these tycoons of Gilas and all these clicks, we insist that because of all this they should have been processed both Bozidar Delić and Vlahović and Dinkic, where is the business space and who is all settled, we have never been able to get it, although we have sought it in the previous meetings of the Assembly, at committee meetings, from all these banks? Because it was all sold out because of the Serb tycoons in order to settle the old foreign currency savings. That, of course, wasn't enough and then the state passed laws later to take over some of that public debt and to start paying off that savings. So, we don't have data on this day and day, neither of the D.A.'s office, nor that someone's been prosecuted. You are now fighting some kind of corruption and form of corruption, but we need to clear up, we can't skip that whole period now, because many of those people whose fathers and mothers are both fathers and mothers, there are young people who are still in full-time jobs, no more jobs, no more jobs. The state has to come out with that data. Let him come to the next appearance of the finance minister, let the Serbian prime minister tell us - what happened to the property? I recently read the statement of the former governor, and sometimes the director of Beobank. Beobank wasn't just one bank. It was one financial institution in the whole Balkans perhaps the strongest, and by the number of people, by the number of trade capital, by the number of placements and all. Mr. Perucic, their former director, and sometimes the governor, he said nicely -- they can start working day and day. They have funds, and they're insignificant funds. But they don't have any space. (The Faith of Radeta: steal them.) Stole them, yeah. So the state would have to take some action, because we can't do that, now, endless bankruptcy and show up in the fall or next term and say, we have an amendment to the bankruptcy law, here, now your procedures are going to end. It's a lot of big problems. You say, "Citizens, get the paperwork." Those citizens who will collect documentation from the former Yugoslavia's space. So, according to this court, which is why Serbia had to take on such a commitment, so, you know, at the very least, they're looking for their own. (President: Bringing the end. ) At the very least, it is hypocritical because the vast property of the Serbian state remained trapped both in the Ustasha Croatian state and in Slovenia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58407	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58408	Let's end this discussion in a maximum positive tone, let's agree. All that is important, and of course, the issue of state property, but not only of state property, but also of citizens and of lower, at the local level, it is important and it is something that each of us should deal with. Whenever you hear a call that something needs to be examined by the state authorities, you know, the SNS position will always be - we agree. The state authorities are invited to look for answers to these questions, and these days we are not asking for anything more than that, that the state authorities can, that no one pressures them, that no one is harassing them, that no one can condition them, that they can do their job in accordance with the law, in accordance with the rules, procedures and nothing else, and then that fine investigation, or that kind of procedure, shows whether something was legal or not. If not, is there obviously room for abuse to be recognized? If there is, to determine who is responsible, so if what seems obvious to us, what seems to us is that when you are the head of Boris Tadic's office or when you're the minister of the republic or when you're mayor of Belgrade, and while you're doing those functions, you're getting rich in time more and more and more, and it's measured by hundreds of millions of euros. It seems obvious to us that this is not normal, but let's not be a question of our personal impression, but let it be a matter of some concrete procedure by law and a proper conclusion. We're not saying anything more than that, and we're not looking for anything but that, and we're getting hysteria and salvah of personal attacks and Alexander Vukic, ministers of the government, political representatives of the SNS in any way you want. It's all right, but for the record, it's not working. We will ask questions to continue, we will advocate the right of state authorities to do their job professionally and in accordance with the law. When we talk about property, we will always insist that everything be determined to the last square metre, and not only when it comes to former state-owned enterprises or former banks. They say there are many, many, many questions to find appropriate explanations or acceptable answers from here to the Old Town municipality. Here, I heard, not long ago, that this Old Town municipality for several dinars per square metre of people who apparently had information in advance that during one afternoon there would be a public call for offers, God knows how many square meters, right, of business space. I think it is also important that it deserves a proper response from the old state authorities, and if someone accidentally participates in it politically, I think it is a common interest to interrupt every kind of support and say – responsibility in the sun.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58409	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment of mine is in line with the position of the SRS that this member should not have even been brought in, and that is why I asked for its erasure. I can also understand that by proposing this law, the government may have had sincere intentions, calculating, above all, that this will in some way help and make it easier for our countrymen living in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. However, looking at the bill itself and knowing some other things that are happening about this, we see that it was not the main intention, but that the main intention was, in fact, the main intention of respecting the EU directives. We saw that, based on some pilot's judgments, what was going on, we talked about it all day and my colleagues talked about it more. But let's put that aside now. Let's assume we're in favor of this law, too. In each, and in that variant, we would ask for the removal of this member for the simple reason that this member does not conform to the usual practice, because I really do not see the reason why this law was so hasty to come into effect with the date of its publication in the “Official Messenger”. Indeed, this is not in line with the usual practice, and there is no need for that. We recently, as far as last week, passed a law on which to correct, let's say, toll prices, etc., and that law, as far as I know, has not yet come into force, although in the most direct way it affects, I say, the filling of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and here with this law is exactly the opposite and I don't know why it was rushing. This government has, in my opinion, and some perhaps more important things, not perhaps, but certainly more important things than this law, and one of them is the law of perpetrators. You know that the SRS has collected a number of signatures to launch this initiative. However, we do, and the procedure has entered the law on perpetrators, but based on what is seen, it will essentially not change anything much and make life easier for the citizens of Serbia. These days, for example, the Russian Duma has passed a law on perpetrators, where it is virtually forbidden for the perpetrators to have any interference in matters concerning municipal costs and all other things that are directly related to the state, and that is the insatiable need of our citizens, because we literally have such perpetrators, no, not all of them, of course, who previously, as they say, target the victim and then by various blackmails and threats make that artillery preparation and then come only to almost literally rob or kidnap something of their own. That's why I think this law is more important to be passed than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58411	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope we agree that the winners of various transitions and inflation are to blame for the poverty of the poor. At the cost of economic destruction of the country and any destruction of the Serbian state, they have become rich. But aside from not being punished, we need to know that these are very dangerous people, they don't have any scruples. They don't use money, they serve money. We need to know they're dangerous, because they feel fear from us. Those of their wealth have the fear of losing him, and that fear we generated for them, and let's not underestimate them. That's why I call on the law enforcement authorities, especially the D.A.'s office and Mrs. Dolovac, so that what is punished can finally be punished. Since I have repeatedly broken the rules, or spent more time than is allowed, I will return one piece of time this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58413	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58414	Here, for the end, let me answer some questions that have been asked to me. I call on the Assembly and the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of amending and supplementing this law in the day of voting, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as this law, and everything it does, is primarily doing in the interests of its citizens and looking primarily at their interest, and this law, although it may seem to be looking for a deadline, an extension of the deadline for the start of payment, has certainly had the best intentions and it shows the other measures that have been done together with this law, i.e. members and amendments of the members of the law. In fact, it's supposed to cut the war from ten to eight. So, the end of the payment will be, instead of February 2024 in August 2023, there will be bigger wars, and it will be in the interest of our citizens. The fact is that 9,323 applications, 10,038 accounts, i.e. the party is reported. The most of them are in BiH 5,617 and this is the fact that it took the Ministry of Finance and the Commission time to do its job, but looking at the interest of our citizens, it shortened the deadline, which I think will make them most happy. What I wanted to say to Mr. Peric, as someone who was both Secretary of State and Minister of Defence, the military reform began on July 27th 2012, when Alexander Vukic came to the head of the Ministry of Defence, and he is experiencing his culmination and peak today, when the Supreme Commander and President of the State, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-17-0.u58415	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'd be done with today's work, and we'd be back tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Does anyone want to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287 on the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
